[Reatsteked as a Newspaper.
S>[f) joif^>fSi< f)^YCSoi(o^idSi<
#Ib.efst x:jcritm4A toitlj SprUwalism xn <&xwi §niaiir*
THE SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places i—LONDON : xi', Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI : Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.; 225, Union-Street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. "VXn*—No. 22.) LONDON * FRIDA-Yj JUNE 2j 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontents.
The Relationship of British Spiritualists to those in
Foreign Countries ...  253
Devil and Ghost Worship in Western India. By M. J.
Walhouse, F.R.A.S  ... 254
Dalston Association of Inquirers Into Spiritualism 256
Incidents in the Experience of a Northumberland Seer:—
Remarkable and Well-Attested Examples of Normal
Clairvoyance—The Apparition of an Heroic Miner—The
Spirit of a Wesleyan* Minister Identified—The Life of
Old Ralph, the Furnace Man, Revealed by Clairvoyance 256
Newspaper Editors Hoaxed by Messrs. Maskelyne and
Cooke. By the Editor  258
Correspondence:—Strong Physical Manifestations of Spirit
Power in the Light—An Alarming Vision—Mr. Eglinton
in Manchester—Healing Mediumship—A Materialisation
Seance at Chalk Farm—A New and Extraordinary
Manifestation of Spirit Power—Mr. Maskelyne (Maske¬
lyne and Cooke) on “ Genuine Phenomena ”—Lord Gar-
vagh and Charles Dickens on Pre-existence—The Late
Mr. Guppy—A Materialised Form Floating in the Air—
Mr. Eglinton in Manchester—A Circle in the North-West
District of London—Berkeleyism—Spirit “Spheres”—
The Mediums' Boot—Mr. Blackburn’s Seances—Maske¬
lyne and Cooke—Art Magic—Reincarnation—Extraor¬
dinary Levitation of Solid Objects in the Light at
Southsea—The Wearing of Silk by Mediums—The
Transference of Healing Power—Spiritualism in South
London — Spiritualism in Derbyshire — Miss Lottie
Fowler’s Mediumship ...       ... 259
Paragraphs:—The Spiritualistic Scientific Research Com¬
mittee, 256 ; The Shakers 264
Answers to Correspondents  ...   ...  264
lUtosppr,
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisement* Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“The Spiritualist” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-streefr
London ; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the! first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen's, 11,'Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O. 
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyoho-
logiquos, fondfe par Allan Kardeo, appears on the 1 st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Oapucines, Paris.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 80, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Reduced to Half-price!
C^ERMONS by T. L. HARRIS. Loudon Series.
Containing—I.—Modern Spiritualism.
IL—Heart Wants of London.
I1L—Christ Incarnate.
lV.—Liberty and Progress.
In limp cloth binding, 6d.; free by post, 7d.
John Thomson, 39, John-street, Glasgow, and Mrs. Connor,
15, Fairclough-lane, Liverpool.
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. CJ
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
B arrtater-at-Law,-Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mr. Thomas Blvton.
Rooms:—7i, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can lonly be admitted to the ordinary sianct
held on. the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the frst Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All;the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following,, viz.:
J?. “ To aid students arid inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books In
the lihrary, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
THE ALPHA; OR, the first principle
OF THE HUMAN MIN D; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “ We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.’’—Athenmum. “It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, with a beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
rPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
JL PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectnres, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; "Stand up! I myself also am a Man;" The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity ? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “ one
tiling” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done np in neat wrappers.
“THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.C.
Agenda for June, 1876.
Friday, 2nd.—Mr, Blackburn's Free Seance.* Mr. W. Eglin¬
ton, medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 7th.—Soiree at 38, Great Russell-street at 6.30 p.m.
Music, conversation, and Refreshments. Open
to Members and Friends. Admission Is.
Thursday, 8th.—Mrs. Olive’s Seance, at 38, Great Russell-
street, from 3 to 5 p.m. Admission, 2s. 6d.
Friday, 2th.—Mr. Blackburn’s: Free Seance. Mr. W. Egling-
ton, medium, at 7.30.
Monday 12th.—Mr. Blackburn’s Free Seance. Miss Lottie
Fowler, medium, at 7.30.
Tuesday, 13fA—Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 14th.—Experimental Research Committee, 6 p.m.
Thursday, 151A—Mrs. Olive’s Seance, at 38, Great Russell-
street from 3 to 5 p.m. Admission, 2s. 6d.
Friday, VUh.—Mr. Blackburn's Free Seance. Mr. W. Egling-
ton, medium, at 7.3”,
Monday, 19th.—Mr. Blackburn’s Free Seance. Miss Lottie
Fowler, medium, at 7.30.
Thursday, 22nd.—Mrs. Olive’s Seance, from 3 to 5 p.m. Admis¬
sion, 2s. 6d.
Monday, 26th.—Mr. Blackburn’s Free Seance. Miss Lottie
Fowler, medium, at 7.30.
Thursday, 29th.—Mrs. Olive's [Seance from 3 to 5 p.m. Admis¬
sion, 2s. 6d.
„ Mr. Blackburn’s Free Seance. Mr. Bullock,
medium, at 7.30.
* Inquirers and members of the National Association and of
allied societies are admitted to these seances under conditions
which may be ascertained by application to the Secretary.
Members are requested to note that the Soiree on the 7th
inst. is the last of the season, the Council having resolved to
suspend these meetings during the next three months. 
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman'ii
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling-
ton. Weekly Seances. &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
SPECIAL SEANCES FOR INYES-
GATORS. A series of seances are to be held on the
Tuesday afternoons of every week until further notice at the
residence of Mrs. Woodforde, 90, Great Russell-street. Usual
phenomena. Movement of objects in the light. Medium, Mr.
Arthur Coleman, who has kindly offered his services for this
especial purpose. Seances will begin at 3 p.m., punctually.
Fee, 5s.
Birmingham.—On wint-Monday a pic-
NIC of Spiritualists and their friends will be held at
the Lickey Hills. Departure from Granville-street Station at
9 a.m. Tickets, including fare and tea, Is. 9d., adults; and
children, Is. Dinner to be taken by Individuals separately.
—R. HARPER.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of hio
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Dr. sexton at the cavendish
ROOMS.—On Sunday evening next, at the Cavendish
Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street, Dr. Sexton will com¬
mence, by special request, a series of three discourses on the
“ Fallacies of Secularism.” The topics are arranged as follows:
June 4th, “ Secularism, the Creed of Negations ; ” Uth, “Seou-
larism Destitute of a Moral Code;” 18th, “Secularism In¬
capable of Supplying the Demands of the Intellect or the Wants
of the Heart." Service at seven o’clock.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOE, HATTEE, & GENEEAL OUTEITTEE,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Aye Maria-lane, London, E.C.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every mputh, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No, 23,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 2, 1876.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873:) '
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Liliau-villa, Holder’s-liill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, 'W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Baiham, S.W.
Hitchman, WlUiam, M.H.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington.sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-bmld-
irtgs, E.C.
Bamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin K., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road.Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-vilia, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Coffin, W. H., Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Beattie, John, 2, Kichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F, A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwell-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Soutliern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New AVandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Hojder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex N.W.
Fitton.R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughbojough-rd, North
Brixton, S.AY.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton. Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, AY.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.AY.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, AAr.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.AV.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, AY.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Ay Isham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. War wick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson. Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S E
Short, Rev. W. F.,St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford. I
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood,
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s Cottage, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
AVpdgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., CaVfendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, g W., and 8, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.AY.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.AV.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 69, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
- London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near AViesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjC Capoussou,
Constantinople.
f he Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Viconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckiiick-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EIysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EIysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, AtlanticCo„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 13, Via Fate bene Fratelli, Milan.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Chud, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
JC. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A. » j .
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson,Esq., M.D,, Albany, New York, U.S.A,
AV. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A. ,
. Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia.U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Piiris.
Rev. Samuel AVatson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
.Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D..Union Springs,CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
AV. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
-7. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. HaUock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. StratU, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. George
Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
L’Unlon Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 28,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, St. Mary-
street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—LI Viconde de Torres-Solanot.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobura-street.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.R.C.S.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Committee of Management. — Mr. Jones, Mr. J. Haslin, Mr.
William Meridith, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, and Miss
Dickson.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Oharleton, Mr. James Monk.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the porpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instrnction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldipap, &c„ nsed
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATOHARD AND CO,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &c
Chief Office: 47, Crawford-STREET, Bryanston-
SQUARE, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rpHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
-L GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D, etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile ol soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London Simpkin, Marsh ait, & Co,
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 6 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship French spoken. At
home Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays.
Private Seances attended.
Notice.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seances at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium.
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
MISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
"VTOTICE. — CHANGE OF RESIDENCE.—
JLl Mrs. Olive has removed to 15, Ainger-terrace, Ainger-
road, King Henry’s-road, Primrose-hill, N.W. Three minutes
from Chalk-farm Station; five minutes from omnibus to
Oxford-street or West-end. Seances as usual for clairvoyance,
medical mesmerism, trance, tests, &c. Private seances by
arrangement; public ditto, Tuesdays, 7 p.m., Fridays, 3 p.m.;
admission, 2s. 6d. Visits within ten miles two guineas, in¬
clusive.
PHYSICAL SEANCES, Light and Dark. Mrs. Olive has
arranged for a series of Seances with Mr. Bullock, jun., on
Mondays at 7 p.m. Admission, 5s. Materialisations and other
interesting phenomena are now constantly produced under test
conditions.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To he seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie EgUnton, St. James's House, Waltham¬
stow.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
American Somnambulist, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Hours, 1 till 8 p.m. Terms, one guinea.
On Fridays and Saturdays, 10s. 6d. To those of limited means
trance seances on Monday evening at 8 p.m., 2s. 6d. Physical
seances for Spiritualists only on Thursday and Saturday evenings
at 8 o'clock, 5s. Miss Fowler does not reply to correspon¬
dence, nor see visitors on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbnry-square, London, W.C.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
Seances at kentish-town.—Mr. w.
Wallace, formerly known as the Missionary Medium,
has made arrangements for a Seance every Wednesday evening,
at which Mr. Bullock, jun., will assist as medium. 7.30 for 8
precisely; 329, Kentish-town-road, N.W. (a few doors from
the Midland Railway Station). Omnibuses pass the door.
Admission, 2s. 6d.
SUSIE FLETCHER, the great American
Trance Medium and Magnetic Healer, has taken rooms
at No. 2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbnry-square, London, W.O.,
where, during the month of June, she may he consulted.
Terms, one guinea. Treatment to the poor on Saturday morn¬
ings free. Will answer calls to lecture.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTHLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, British National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
WANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoyant.
Would not object to trance.—T.Y.,Jl 6, Stafford-street, Maryle-
bo le-road, W.
I jptptjir til irf $$ nttb iJ ^pttjHunlbnt.
VotujviE Eiqht. Kumber Twenty-two.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 2nd, 1876.
THE RELATIONSHIP OF BRITISH SPIRITUALISTS TO
THOSE IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
In the course of the annual meeting of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, the proceedings of which were
reported in this journal last week, no subjects of much im¬
portance were considered outside the limits of the official
report. A fertile theme which might well have been debated
at such an influential meeting, would have been the position
of the National Association in relation to the Spiritualists of
foreign countries, this branch of the work of the Association
having fallen too much in arrear, and never having received
the full attention it merits. The more intelligent Spiritualists
in foreign parts view with considerable interest the action of
the Association, so far as they have had the means of be¬
coming fully acquainted with the same, and it is probable
that, by means of a little energetic management, a certain
proportion of ordinary paying members could be obtained
from among the Spiritualists of foreign countries. To this
end such work should be done at 38, Great Bussell-street, as to
cause Spiritualists abroad to take a more lively interest in
the Association than at present, and an endeavour should be
made to offer certain advantages to those who may enrol
themselves as members. This, perhaps, may be brought
about by announcing to them that it is the intention of the
directorate to make the central establishment in London a
kind of international record and statistical office, in relation
to Spiritualism throughout the globe. The Council might
announce to them that it intends to take in, and to carefully
file and bind, copies of every Spiritualistic periodical pub¬
lished in any part of the world. In the second place it
might announce its intention of entering into alliance with
some, and into correspondence with all, existing Spiritual
societies ; that it desires to collect from them, and from
its honorary or corresponding members, statistics in relation
to the spread of Spiritualism, for the purpose of publishing
annually the number of existing societies, the time they have
been established, the number of members, together with
short reports of the position of Spiritualism in the countries
from which trustworthy communications can be obtained.
A few of the more remarkable phenomena witnessed during
the year in each locality might also be recorded. The sta¬
tistics might be drawn up in accordance with a printed form,
so as to make every local report comparable with every other
local report, and to make the whole statistics of the year
comparable with the statistics of any other year.
Intelligent foreign Spiritualists should be induced to enrol
themselves as ordinary members, on the ground that it is
their duty to support an establishment doing public work of
such historical value, also on the ground that they would be
entitled to receive a presentation copy each of every annual
report. A further advantage of a foreign department of the
National Association would be, that those of its members who
travel in foreign countries would receive encouragement
to send to head-quarters all the information of interest which
they may collect in connection with Spiritualism.
A duty now devolves upon the National Association of
Spiritualists, of a similar kind to that which has fallen
upon the Anthropological Institute, and which the latter
has performed to some extent. The various races of savages
are gradually being improved off the face of the earth by
the white man, in obedience to a natural law which the
human family has not the power to subvert, for the weaker
races always disappear to make way for the stronger. The
Anthropological Institute is collecting what information it
can about the physiology and anatomy of savages, and their
manners and customs; but all the information about the
psychology of savage life which has as yet been collected, is
meagre, fragmentary, and as a rule, penned by people totally
ignorant of the facts of Spiritualism. Canon Calloway, of
|; Natal, has done more than anybody else in the way of
< | recording Spiritual manifestations among savages; his
i descriptions of their voice circles, of their trance and clair-
|] voyant seances, are extremely interesting. Moreover, he
< I has performed this work without knowing anything about
11 Spiritualism himself. The National Association of Spirit-
|| ualists should do all it can to secure information about
11 psychological phenomena among savages, before these races,
| which belong to the childhood of the world, become extinct.
)! If the work be not done in this generation, a certain propor-
11 tion of valuable information will be lost for ever.
?! A method of keeping alive foreign interest in the work of
! the National Association, would be to imitate the plan
\ \ followed by Mr. Blyton, honorary secretary to the Dalston
? ! Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, who, whenever he
| i has the slightest excuse for so doing, writes to the various
! newspapers in the locality, and thus succeeds in sustaining a
? I certain amount of outside public interest, and this, too,
11 through the agency of journals not by any means devoted to
! Spiritualism. The National Association, in dealing with the
(I Spiritual journals of foreign countries, would stand in a
) I better position, for those journals would be glad to
! receive items of Spiritualistic information from England.
(I For these reasons, it seems to us that steps should
)! be taken to make sure that every foreign Spiritualistic
j journal — of which there may be forty or fifty alto-
< I gether—shall receive each not less than, say, six letters
j | a year about the proceedings of the National Association,
11 what it intends to do in relation to the Spiritualists
I among whom the particular journal addressed circulates, and
11 what it desires those Spiritualists should do in return. Steps
| should also be taken to keep a short advertisement, seven or
! eight lines long, permanently in the columns of each journal,
i giving the address of the headquarters of the National
| Association, and stating such of its objects as are likely to
| j be of interest to Spiritualists in foreign countries. The
? | carrying out of these ideas would throw much extra work
! upon the already fully employed executive, so perhaps Mr.
| Algernon Joy, the honorary secretary, who already in that
I capacity has done so much useful work for the Association,
11 might, if invited, undertake most of the heavy correspond-
I ence incidental to a well-managed foreign department,
j | Travellers and good linguists should chiefly be selected as
11 members of the committee. The plan is practicable, be-
s | cause among the members of the Council are those who are
I! well qualified to perform the required duties, and the ex-
| penses will not be great at the outset. Who knows but
i what it might speedily result in the importation of a live
I fakir ? It is the height of our ambition to see a grizzly fakir
i buried alive in the presence of witnesses, under the kitchen
| flags at 38, Great Russell-street, and the stone sealed with
! the great seals of the Corporation of London and the Arch-
i bishop of Canterbury, in addition to the brass door-plate of
| the National Association. Mrs. Parrott, the housekeeper,
I would have to be sworn to keep watch and ward over the
j stone, to prevent any tampering with the three seals,
i and at the end of six months the hybernating fakir might
j be dug up at one of the periodical soirees, in the presence of
| pressmen and doctors, a living witness to certain abnormal
| psychological powers of the human being.
The establishment of friendly relations with Spiritualists
| in foreign countries is a work with which it is compatible
I with the dignity of the National Association to deal, for of
| late a tendency has been shown to occupy the valuable time
I of persons who have not much leisure, over matters which
| are scarcely important enough to be worth the sacrifice. Dr,
(! Watts says :—
j j • Satan finds some mischief Still
5: For idle hands to do
254
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 2, 1876,
On which principle nothing is so good for an organisation as j
the providing for it of plenty of useful employment. |
Strong foreign interest in the work of the National Asso- j
ciation cannot spring up at once; it must be a matter of j
slow growth, and perhaps after all the work may be fully !
appreciated only by the thoughtful few rather than the less ||
intelligent many. In such case the duty should be under- |(
taken for its own sake alone, so that after ages many may ||
have to record that had it not been for the foresight of the j
British National Association of Spiritualists in collecting j
the materials while they were obtainable, most of the j
periodical literature and vital statistics of the Spiritualism j
of the nineteenth century would have been lost to the world j
for ever.    i
DEVIL AND GHOST WORSHIP IN WESTERN INDIA *
BY M. J. WALHOUSE, F.R.A.S. If
In Two Parts.—Part II. |;
In face of the vast array of learning, and instances bearing n
on the subject, brought together with such marvellous labour |
and research in Mr. Tylor’s chapters on “Animism,” one |
cannot but feel that a paper like this is superfluous. But if !
the almost universal belief, amongst the lower races, in their j
continued existence after the death of the body, may have I
arisen from the conclusion that the figures of the dead, seen ||
in dreams and visions, must be their surviving souls, it may ||
be allowable to reflect how much that supposition would have j j
been strengthened by believing their voices were heard after j
death speaking to their tribe and followers. It is amongst I
the most primitive and savage races that such beliefs are at j
this day current. Modern industry and investigation are |
piercing somewhat further into the dim and misty morning j
of the yesterday we have hitherto styled antiquity; but j
will papyrus roll or burnt-clay cylinder disclose what was jj
the creed and what the gods of the flint-folk, or what the j|
thoughts as to a hereafter of the man who traced the outline j
of the mammoth on the piece of tusk in the Christie collec- j
tion ? These are beyond surmise, except forasmuch as those j
races, being human, must have dreamed dreams, and seen in ||
them the departed in their habit as they lived ; and as there j j
may have been some subject to those strange, delirious j
ecstacies, natural or produced, in which the very voices of j
the dead are imagined to be heard again, it may not be too j
bold to conjecture that the wild cultus and ceremonies j
described above may have originated in that “ dim, back- jj
ward, and abysm of time” and antiquity of man of which |j
only late years have given us definite assurance. A short jj
reference may here be made to the dancing mania, which, j
beginning in 1374, for two centuries plagued Germany and I
the adjacent countries. The amazing details respecting j
it may be read in Dr. Hecker’s “Epidemics of the Middle j
Ages.” Whole communities were seized with a disease of j
frantic dancing, continued for hours and days, during which j
they neither saw nor heard things external, but were haunted jj
by visions and spirits whose names they shrieked out. In- j j
toxicating music increased and spread the delirium, and j
streets and cities were filled with hundreds of raving dancers jj
of both sexes: the disease was universally ascribed to j j
demoniacal origin. Sympathy and contagion may have been jj
much concerned with this strange phenomenon, often called jj
St. John’s Dance, but its roots probably existed in primitive jj
heathen observances connected with St. John’s Day.f Beside j j
numberless local Bhutas, there are some thirty especially jj
feared in Canara, possessing temples and shrines in various jj
parts of the province: several are females. The most dreaded j j
and malignant amongst them is Kalkatti, or the Stonecutter, jj
reputed to be the spirit of Jackanachari, a famous stone- jj
mason and architect, who, between four and five centuries ij
ago built most of the exquisitely beautiful Jaina temples jj
* A paper read before the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain. j j
f The subjoined notice of a picture, now in the French Gallery, Pall Mall, I j
entitled “La Saint-Jean,” by M. Jules Breton, representing, it is understood, i)
an actual scene in Brittany, is not irrelevant to the general subject of this
paper. ■ “ The subject is the immemorial custom of dancing round fires on j<
St. John’s Day, a custom by no means quite disused in England, and still ij
frequent in France. A group of stalwart and rough country wenches are i)
dancing furiously, and, with the utmost rapidity, circling about a huge bonfire j)
which has been made on a village green. The red and orange flames rise and i(
flash in the air between the figures ; the women seem to be singing as if they j j
were mad, In the distance are other figures, bearing and waving torches.”
that exist in Canara. Much legend has gathered about him,
but he undoubtedly lived, and must have been a craftsman of
marvellous skill. The tradition runs that he and his wife,
having quarrelled with their son respecting a temple then in
process of building, they both committed suicide, and became
Bhutas so malign and feared, that none dare attempt an
exorcism when their presence is suspected. The next most
dreaded Bhuta is Panjurli, i. e., pig-rider, whose origin is
forgotten, but is probably the perturbed spirit of some one
once notorious. Gtuliga is regarded as an aboriginal or
earth-born demon, and has power during certain minutes on
certain days to pass through the air, and strike those he
meets with a rod, thereby causing fits, paralysis, or even
death. His glance also causes sickness, but the hours in
which, in Shakspere’s sense, he can take * or injure, are
limited. Ckamundi, signifying mistress of death, is a female
earth-spirit, f and when the Kolia ceremony is offered to her,
a large pile of wrood is kindled, and after it has become a
heap of glowing embers, the Dher who represents and is pos¬
sessed by her, dances and rolls upon them for some minutes
without injury. Munditaya is the ghost of a Balala, or high
casteman, who died by some accident, and is reputed Very
troublesome; sandal-wood powder and water, taken from the
cot hung up to him, are however believed, when rubbed on,
to cure snake-bites without further remedy. Most Bhutas
haunt large trees, and it is of this last one, I think, that a
story is told regarding a large solitary Banian tree near a
village in the province. A demon was said to live in its
branches, and none dare climb it. Some Mussulmans,
however, laughed at the story, and one of them climbed
up, but when he had got well up in the branches the goblin
was suddenly revealed to him in a monstrous and frightful
shape, on seeing which he screeched, let go his hold, fell to
the ground, and remained raving with terror for three days ;
his back was injured by the fall, and he became humped-
backed, but lived to be 90, and would often tell the story.
The tree is now half dead, and limbs and branches often fall
from it, but none will go near or pick them up. So in Den¬
mark and Norway the elf-people frequent large linden trees,
and it is not held safe to break their branches or go near
them after dusk. The Dharmastal Temple, J situated in a
wild forest track in Canara, is one of the most famous in all
that part of the peninsula, and is the abode of seven or eight
very powerful Bhutas, who are so dreaded that none will
assume their names. In civil suits, when the evidence is
balanced or hopelessly contradictory, it is very usual for one
of the parties to offer to decide it by taking an oath as to the
justice of his contention before one of the Dharmastal
deities ; this, when accepted and done with certain for¬
malities, is always held satisfactory and decisive; for the
litigants know well that no one would dare to risk abiding
the vengeance of those terrible Bhutas by a false adjuration.
With respect to assuming their names, it may be explained
that it is very common to name children after any Bhuta
who may be very popular at the time, probably with the idea
that the compliment might induce him to regard the child
and family with favour. I remember that a good many
years ago a notorious and greatly dreaded dacoit was hung
in Trichinopoly, who after death became so fashionable a
Bhut that for some time half the children born were named
after him. I may perhaps mention two or three out of the
instances of the belief in Bhutas that came before me offi¬
cially as judge. In a trial for murder before the Sessions
Court the prisoner was charged with having intentionally
caused the death of his younger brother, whom he struck
down as they were ploughing. In defence the prisoner
stated, through his vakil, or pleader, that the deceased
whilst at work in the field was struck by the eye of a Bhut,
of which he died; and his witnesses deposed that they had
known similar instances. In another murder case the
evidence of a material witness was objected to because he
was well known to be under the curse of a Bhut, and in con-
* “. . . -then no planet strikes,
No fairy takes I—Hamlet.
f Also called the tigress, and identified with the most cruel aspect of Parvati,
the wife of Shiva.
J Round stones are sold at this temple, which are believed to carry the
power of the Bhutas with them; they receive offerings, and can be invoked
against any enemy, who will forthwith be visited by all sorts of misfortunes.
June 2, 1876. Tl4E SPIB-ITtALI^T. 255
sequence a desperate man, whose statements could not be
believed. Again, a Potel, or village head-man, was charged
with having entered the death of a boy in his register as
natural when he had really committed suicide: in defence
the Potel asserted that the boy had died from a blow by the
village Bhuta, and named several instances. On being
punished by the magistrate, he appealed to the Sessions
Court, reasserting his plea, and desiring to call witnesses to
prove it. These men were far from unintelligent, and the
vakils, or native pleaders, acute and well able to conduct a
legal argument. But we can hardly ridicule them much,
when we reflect that within the last eighteen months a young
farmer was sentenced to six months’ imprisonment at Dor¬
chester for savagely beating an old woman because she
u hag-rode” him; another man in Somersetshire was
charged for twice stabbing a woman who had u over-looked”
him, that he might break the spell with her blood ; and
there were four other convictions in Somersetshire and
Devonshire alone, for assaults committed, or payment taken,
on account of, or to cure, having been bewitched; and all
the persons connected may presumably have been at school,
and attended some church or chapel.*
Yery often Bhutas become a sort of house-spirits, such as
are heard of in many popular mythologies, more or less
mischievous, and delighting in Robin Goodfellow’s pranks.
Howlings and unearthly shrieks and noises that cannot be
traced are attributed to them. Household utensils are
thrown about, and stones flung by invisible hands,f and pots
and cooking vessels found filled with dirt. Women put
away their best clothes carefully, and in the morning find
them unaccountably on fire and smouldering away. All
these are ascribed to the Bhuta, as well as what would now
be called a kind of levitation, which is declared to be very
frequent. Infants are missed from their cradles, and pre¬
sently heard crying in the loft of the house, or on stacks of
straw outside. Once riding through a village I found the
people in great excitement at a prank played by a Bhuta two
days before. A woman lying apart in her room, expecting
her confinement, was suddenly missed, and could nowhere
be found, till some children heard her voice proceeding from
a dry well in a field hard by. She was drawn up with con¬
siderable trouble, quite unhurt, and safely confined the same
day. She said she found herself all at once at the bottom
of the well, but could not in the least tell how she came
there. The people insisted on showing me the well, which
was about 100 yards from the house, large and square, one
used for irrigation, but then dry, and from 20 to 25 feet
deep. Roman Catholics are very numerous in Canara, but
quite as subject to these demoniacal annoyances as the
Hindus. One clerk of the Civil Court, a grave, elderly man,
affirmed to me that, when passing at evening along a lane
near a Bhutastan, he encountered a dark, monstrous, shadowy
shape, which grew larger and larger, on which he uttered
some religious verses, when it gradually diminished and dis¬
appeared. Another story was the talk of the town, and the
parties concerned assured me of its truth. Two high native
officials, both Roman Catholics, were sitting at noonday in
the verandah of the house of one of them, when ashes and
earth came pouring in quantities from the roof. The master
of the house exclaimed the Bhuta was repeating his tricks,
and, bringing a gun, fired it in the air to frighten the goblin
away, when instantly, as if in answer, a quantity of powder
was exploded in the midst of the open yard before them,
and immediately stones and pebbles were flung by invisible
agency towards the house from without. These fell on the
verandah, and then, my informant asseverated, went “ leap¬
ing like frogs” into the house, to the great amusement of
the children who had assembled, and who would cry out,
* Since writing this it has struck me that some apology is due, both to our
English and Indian west country rustics. Within the last few months a
work {Glimpses of the Supernatural) has been published by a well-known
clergyman, the vicar of an important London parish, in which stories of
witchcraft and injuries done by witches, the calling up and dismissal of spirits
by magic rites, appearances of demons, demoniacal possession, and the like,
are recounted with apparently full belief. In a remarkable article on
“ Domonolatry and Devil-dancing,” in the Contemporary Review for February
of the current year, Mr. R. Caldwell asks whether instances of demoniacal
possession, such as are related in the New Testament, may not occur to-day
in India and less civilised countries. _ j
j- One Bhuta is specially named Kaluruti, i.e. stone-thrower.
Ie( One more !” when another stone would instantly fall and
go hopping in ! This sort of Bhuta annoyance was declared
to be not at all unfrequent. It is curious, anthropologically
speaking, to observe how general this strange belief in a
grotesque sort of goblin, rejoicing in a particular kind of
odd, mischievous pranks, has been in widely separated
countries and ages. In China such disturbances are common,
and ascribed to “ kitchen-gods;” in Arabia and Egypt to
the jinnee or genii, who, Mr. Lane says, are believed to
throw stones and furniture about in houses. He also relates
that pious and learned Muslims, on locking the doors of their
houses, storerooms, and apartments when going out, habi¬
tually repeat, u In the name of God, the Compassionate, the
Merciful,” to secure their property during their absence from
I the mischief and depredations of the Jinn. The Germans
i have a special name for such spirits, calling them Bolter
| Geist, or racketing-ghost, and the stories about them and
| their impish persecutions, all much alike, current in Ger-
| many, France, and England, are endless. Amongst pub-
I lished accounts it is enough to mention the Stockmll
| Ghost, the Demon of Tedmorth, and the extraordinary
I disturbances at Woodstock, commemorated in Scott’s novel.
Some years ago the London papers had accounts of similar
I mysterious occurrences in a house in Bayswater ; and even
I as far back as a.d. 1188 the Itinerary through Wales of
! Giraldus Cambrensis, translated by Sir Richard Hoare,
! mentions like stories and manifestations.
Charms or amulets against the evil influence of Bhutas
| are—wearing the tooth or nail of a tiger on the neck or
! near the loins, or an iron ring set with pearls on the finger.
I In all ages and countries iron is sovereign against evil
| powers. A lime in the turban, or a figure of Hanuman, the
| monkey-god, engraved on any ornament, are also efficacious,
I especially on Sundays and Tuesdays. But the most power-
| ful remedy must have been when, in the days of the Rajahs
! of Coorg, a principality bordering on Canara, it was custo-
| mary for the Amildars, or native heads of divisions, to issue
notices and orders to the Bhutas, in the name of the Rajah,
I not to molest any particular individual, to quit any tree they
| haunted which was required to be felled, and to desist from
i any particular act or annoyance. It is stated that these
behests of the Government were never disobeyed, which,
| indeed, is not unlikely, as the last Coorg Rajah was not a
I man who understood being trifled with, either by man or
| demon. After his deposition, the native officials continued
the same style of orders, in the name of the British Govern-
| ment, for some time before the authorities were aware of it!
To conclude this subject, the idea is quite familiar that
Bhutas may be perturbed ghosts, “ doomed for a certain
term to walk the night,” but longing to escape from their
I thraldom, and be laid to rest. For the repose of any such
unhappy spirit the following ceremony is prescribed :—An
| image of Vishnu must be engraved on a gold plate, arrayed
| with a yellow cloth, and washed with water from a holy
| stream. Around this, placed in the centre, similar images
I of the other principal gods must be arranged, arrayed, and
| washed in like manner. Then a sacrifice of all manner of
I perfumes, and quantities of ghee and milk, must be offered,
I and all the funeral ceremonies in honour of the deceased
j gone through, and the funeral cakes offered anew in presence
of the golden images of the gods. Next a banquet must
be given to thirteen pure Brahmans, presenting each with a
! mattress, a horse, and a gold pot full of milk. Their united
! mantrams {i.e., incantations) will then release the soul from
I its unclean Bhuta state and remit it to salvation. But all
! this seems a device of later times, invented by the Brah-
I mans to increase their influence and the authority of their
! gods over the low-caste deities. It would also be a costly
| ceremony, and I never heard of its having been actually
| performed.
The Persecution of the Editor of “ The Revue Spiritk.”—Miss
! Anna Blackwell, in the course of a private letter to Mr. Harrison,
says :—“ In a few lines received last week from M. Leymarie he says :
| ‘ I have this day completed a month of my imprisonment—one-twelfth
j of my term. My health has not yet suffered, and my courage is steady.
To feel that one suffers in a noble cause is in itself a great consolation,
i i and, besides, the making of twelve dozen match-boxes per day (my
11 j appointed- task) leaves me but little time for lamentation,’ ”
256
fflE SPIRiTUALiStf.
June 2, 18?6.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
On Thursday evening last week Mr. J. J. Morse, trance medium,
gave an inspirational address to the members and friends of the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston,
London, under the presidency of Mr. John Rouse.
Mr. Morse’s controlling spirit selected the subject of “ The Expe¬
riences of Spirits in the Spirit World.” He recognised the fact that the
revelations on this subject given through various mediums were con¬
flicting, and stated that the contradictions were partly due to the
imperfect means of communication, and partly to the lack of competency
to teach on the part of the majority of communicating spirits. He
claimed that the spirit world was a natural world, wherein living beings
were surrounded by natural conditions, that is to say, conditions
governed by law; it was not a supernatural world, neither were the
conditions supernatural. Those who passed the boundary line between
the world of time and the land of immortality did not enter an insipid
heaven of irrational enjoyments, neither did they become salamanders
in a region of fire. Men of purely animal instincts, with no affection
for anything but the things of the earth, remained earth-bound spirits
after death. Others—good average people—entered into a state of
existence of a semi-spiritual type, partly tied down to the spiritual con¬
ditions of the earth, and partly related to a higher state. Above these
were spirits of a philosophical order of mind, from whom commu¬
nications of greater value could be obtained whenever they were able to
communicate.
When the first address was concluded Mr. Morse came under the
control of a jocular spirit, who said:—I am the Strolling Player, or at
least—after all I have gone through lately—what is left of me, whittled
down to a fine point. A point has no extension, so I may call myself
a mathematical ghost. “ One good turn deserves another,” as the cat
said when she was under the rollers of the mangle, and as our philo¬
sopher has worked one half of the medium’s brain in giving you one
address, now I come in to work the other, and to say a little about
scandal-mongers. I know people who are very cat-like. Stroke them
down, they purr and mee-ow, and look like a number one angel; but
show them a mouse, their eyes flash, their tails cock up, their claws
come out, and they look as if they mean business. The mouse soon
finds itself in the mouse’s heaven, if there is one. The cat subsides,
and looks like a number one angel again. As the shades of evening
begin to close over the scene, that same cat hears a voice in the distance
disturbing the quietness of the stilly air ; with tail erect it rushes along
the gloomy corridors to the street door, to greet the owner of the voice,
and to swallow the delicate morsel of deceased horse. Many people are
like that cat; they look like a number one angel till they have some¬
body’s reputation to pull to pieces—then their eyes flash, and in ten
minutes there is not an atom of the reputation left. It’s a “ feelin’ ”
subject, isn’t it ? After all, it’s a good thing that they sometimes seize
a rat in mistake for a mouse; then, may be, sundry damages are done to
the cat, and the intended victim gets off. Still, it is rather hard upon
the victims of scandal-mongers that the attempt should be made to eat
them before the impracticability of the project is proved. It is almost
as bad a position as mine—as the taking charge of a medium. I am a
ghost, and find that attending to my medium is like attending to a
white elephant. Apart from the trouble of looking after him and trying
to protect him, I have to receive my share of the compliments—and
otherwise—of a great many friends down here.
Shortly afterwards the proceedings closed.
Mr. Eglinton, the medium, has recovered from his attack of illness, i |
but is not strong.
Dr. Sexton lectured on Sunday last at Keighley, under the auspices |)
of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
Mr. J. J. Morse has delivered three trance lectures during the present ] >
week in the Island of Jersey.
Mr. Colman is giving stances in the light, on Tuesday afternoons, at i;
Mrs. Woodforde’s, 90, Great Russell-street, London.
Mr. Martheze, of Brighton, asks us to caution Spiritualists against a |
young man named James Curtis, who is using Mr. Martheze’s name | c
without his sanction for the purpose of obtaining loans of money.
The names of Mrs. C. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, and Mr. \ (
H. Withall, were last week accidentally omitted from the list of mem- i |
bers present at the annual meeting of the British National Association i (
of Spiritualists.
The Spiritualistic Scientific Research Committee.—Last Monday I
evening the first meeting of the Scientific Research Committee of the i j
British National Association of Spiritualists was held at 38, Great |)
Russell-street, London, under the presidency of Mr. Desmond Fitz- hj
Gerald, M.S. Tel. E. Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., and Mr. Gray were Ki
elected members of the committee. Mr. Fitz-Gerald suggested that the m
committee should first give attention to the ventilation of the seance {/j
room and cabinet. He remarked that every man consumed more than \(\
I, 900 cubic inches of oxygen per hour, and that when many people were | )|
shut up together in a small room at a dark stance, the conditions were in
most unhealthy. He suggested that the stance room should be venti- Hi
lated by means of two or three large pipes, so bent that they would let ! j j
air out without letting light in. He further suggested that the cabinet m
should be ventilated by the slow discharge into it of pure oxygen gas Hi
throughout the seance. It was then resolved that the committee should I (i
first give attention to the ventilation of the seance room and cabinet. Hi
It was also resolved that observations be commenced upon the physiolo- Hi
gical conditions influencing manifestations. It was further resolved to Hi
ask the Council to sanction the formation of a special fund for scientific Hi
purposes. ' i)j
INCIDENTS IN THE EXPERIENCE OF A NORTHUMBER¬
LAND SEER.
REMARKABLE AND WELL-ATTESTED EXAMPLES OF NORMAL CLAIRVOYANCE.
We have received the following communication :—
To the Editor of u The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—As the subject of seership is of profound interest to the student
of the spiritual philosophy, and the hitherto collected evidences of this
gift are but meagre, I venture to introduce to the intelligent readers of
The Spiritualist an extraordinary exponent of this wonderful power—Mr.
Joseph Skipsey, of Ashington Colliery, Northumberland. He is a
modest, unassuming individual, and follows daily the occupation of a
miner. Although living in comparative obscurity, it is but just to state
that Mr. Skipsey is one of those rare specimens of working men who
have utilised their opportunities, for one cannot be five minutes in his
society without feeling that we are in the presence of a cultured mind.
To a sympathetic spirit our friend unites a practical conception of
human nature, and, moreover, to a dignified demeanour characteristic
of the man, a knowledge of the classics; and this is not the least con¬
spicuous of his acquirements.
Mr. Skipsey is also the author of two volumes of poems, which have
been largely circulated in the north of England, and some of which
have been styled by the press “ the most impassioned lyrics of the 19th
century.”
Supplementary to this gift of inspiration which he enjoys so largely,
it is my province to write of the higher endowment of seership, which he
carefully developes for beneficent uses.
Mr. Skipsey cannot remember the time when he did not see these
“impalpable impressions on the air;” did not feel a “sense of some¬
thing moving to and fro; ” did not observe crowds of strange visitors
thronging constantly around him, eager to assure friends through him of
their objective identity. His attention was drawn to the more practical
phases of Spiritualism by reading a work on apparitions, which Mr.
Newton Crosland, of Blackheath, sent to him. Upon reading this and
other important contributions to the literature of Spiritualism, he began
to bestow upon his dramatic visions the closest scrutiny, and the result
has been that in many instances the life history of those “ who have
lived and died ” has been detailed circumstantially. Mr. Skipsey holds
in his possession a number of affidavits from respectable individuals
who have attested the truthfulness of the details given to them, he
having had no knowledge of the friends of these persons in the physical
form.
I will refrain from detailing any private proofs which I have enjoyed
myself, and append three particular cases which have been obtained by
others who are well known, and may be have been waited upon or written
to in reference to the matter.
I may add that Mr. Skipsey keeps a journal, and at a great sacrifice
of time faithfully records the phenomena which he interprets; therefore
it may be better to allow him to relate these matters in his own words.
It will be seen that two of the narratives relate to individuals who have
passed away. The third case’is an analysis of the spiritual surroundings
of an individual who is still living, and may be communicated with.
The narratives are sent in reply to a letter from myself to Mr. Skipsey,
asking him for information. William H. Robinson.
Ohester-le-Street.
THE APPARITION OF AN HEROIC MINER.
The following is the first of the narratives from Mr. Skip-
sey’s diary, enclosed to us by Mr. Kobinson:—
On the 27th of last month (November), while on a visit to Mr. G.
Smith, of Delaval, there came before me the apparition of a young
man, between twenty and thirty years of age, with light hair, dark eyes,
a nose somewhat straight and well up from the cheeks, a finely-curved
mouth, with a beard, but no whiskers, a thinnish, not sharply-cut, face,
an open countenance, and characterised (especially in his eyes) by an ex¬
pression of a high order of intelligence. The dress he had on consisted
of a large checked grey cloth coat and light trousers and vest, and in his
hand there was what I at first thought was a small tin can, but which a
second glance showed was a safety lamp, but a safety lamp unlike those
in use in our northern coal-fields, at least in those of Northumberland
and Durham. It had a glass tube up the inside of the gauze, and was
larger and more unwieldy than the lamp in use in these districts.
There was sufficient to attract my attention to this apparition, even if I
had not observed what—ere I had well taken cognisance of the par¬
ticulars just given—I did, that the archetype had had the misfortune to
have his forehead driven in, and that an ugly gash extended across one
side, from which the blood oozed and streamed down his face, giving
the appearance of another gash at one side of the mouth. I will not
say that there was not a cut at one comer of the mouth, but the blood
oozing from the other wounds and settling there was in itself sufficient
to give that appearance, without the existence of any actual wound. I
described what I saw to the company present, and the apparition was
identified by John (brother to George) Smith as that of a comrade,
whose name, though no kinsman, was also John Smith. He was a
young man who had been an official in Oaks Colliery, and who had lost
his life while in search of the bodies of the men who had perished by
the awful explosion which, a few years ago, as is well known, took place
there. The two John Smiths had borne a striking resemblance to each
other, and the John who is yet in the flesh spoke in high terms of the
intelligence and humanity of his sometime departed comrade.
THE SPIRIT OF A WESLEYAN MINISTER IDENTIFIED.
Another extract from the diary is appended:—
I will here transcribe from my note-book a paragraph which will
possess a special interest for our Parkinsville friends:—“ After a con-
June 2, 1876. THE SPIRITUALISE 257
troversy upon the truthfulness of clairvoyance, which had been elicited I
by the reading of a paper of my own at the late conference of Spirit- I
ualists at Choppington (Nov. 27, 1875), a person named Eichard Ram- j
say, a back or sub-overmanat Parkinsville Colliery in the county of |
Durham, arose under the influence of a control who calls himself Chris- j
topher Ritson, and stated that he (Mr. Ramsay) had been forced thither j
that day, in order that he might, through Mr. Skipsey, have the per- !
sonal appearance of his controlling spirit while on earth, described, j
Three gentlemen had accompanied him, viz., Mr. Laidlaw (a brother |)
sub-overman from the same place as himself), and Messrs. J. Batey and i<
J. Wilson, from Austen and Fatfield respectively; these had known C. |
Ritson when he was yet in the flesh, and were able to say whether the
clairvoyant’s description was correct or not. The entranced medium i
directed my attention to an apparition before me, and requested me i
to say what I saw. I then, in the presence of the assembly proceeded ij
to describe the complexion, the manner of wearing the hair, the beard, )<
the form of the features and the dress of a person I had never known or I1
heard of, except that while on earth he had been a Wesleyan minister, j]
I, however, did not see him in his conventional costume, but as he li
usually appeared in the domestic circle; instead of a white cravat, he
had a common tie on his neck, and instead of a Bible he had a bass \,
violin in his hand, and he stood in the act of playing this violin, after |
my description was given. Another peculiarity which I noted, and of 1
which of course I had not previously known anything, was that during
life he had had the misfortune to have an injury done to one of his eyes.
Every particular thus noticed was identified, and the parties went away j
delighted with the conviction that Mr. Ramsay’s control was none other
than the person he pretended to be, viz., their old Christopher Ritson.
THE LIFE OF OLD RALPH, THE FURNACE MAN, REVEALED BY CLAIRVOYANCE.
Mr. Robinson has also forwarded us for publication the j
following interesting letter from Mr. Skipsey:—
Ashington Colliery, near Morpeth, May 11,1876.
Mr. Robinson—My Dear Friend,—To tell you more than you
already know in regard to my seership would require an elaborate
treatise. You know that I get my visions in the normal state, chiefly in
the light, at all hours of the day or night, and with my eyes open.
Nearly all external objects, whether crystalline, opaque, smooth, or
coarse, polished or otherwise, serve as mirrors or media in which, or
through which, I may see. One thing I have not explained to you, and
that is, that when I am in my best moods for seeing, I very often feel
as if my face, beard, and other parts of my body, and more especially
the eyes, were anointed or steeped in oil. This I experience let my
visions be what they may, whether of a celestial, a human, or a demo¬
niacal character. The great majority of my visions are human, more
especially since I began to make Spiritualism my study. Visions of a
symbolical character and of spirit-life I believe I have had, but I have
been always very careful what conclusions I drew from the study of
such phenomena. Some seers are very fond of such visions; but,
before they ask me to listen to their descriptions, I should feel obliged
to them if they would relate something they have seen which can be
proved to have had an objective existence. The description of the past
life of the Samaritan woman by the Nazarene at the well, is to me of a
thousand times more value than the unnatural visions of the St. John
of Revelations, which, by-the-by, are no revelations, but riddles, in the
unriddling of which the reader is guided by no principle drawn from
the philosophy of life.
I should tell you, as you are so much interested in the welfare of
Spiritualism and the development of mediumship, that I believe the
seer-gift to be special, and that a person must be born with it to become
a good seer. I may also tell you that, rare as this gift appears to be,
its inheritor must also be well-endowed in other respects, and possess a
cultivated mind, before he or she can make a proper use of it; and that
it is folly, because a person has displayed some symptoms of seeing, to
encourage him to cultivate it before he has become possessed of good
mental training. Very many a seer has incurred the imputation of
imposture, endured the doom of the lunatic, or has died the death of
the suicide, almost entirely from lack of culture and of the philosophic
acumen requisite to enable him not only to give to others but to himself
an accurate exposition of the phenomena he has witnessed. Let the
first object of the Spiritualistic philanthropist, then, be to educate the
person whose mediumship he would develope, otherwise he may, with
the best of intentions, place himself in the position of the good-natured,
but none the less foolish nurse, who gives the object of her care a box
of lucifers to play with.- This remark may be applied to the cultivation
of all kinds of mediumship, but emphatically so to that of the seer. On
this last word, “ seer,” I would here remark that I lay particular stress,
as being the word for the representation of that faculty by which some
people are enabled to see spiritual things. It is a true English word,
as well understood by the masses as by the learned, and covers the
whole of the ground occupied by such terms as clairvoyance, mind¬
reading, and crystal-seeing.
I have nothing particular in the vision way just now, so shall content
myself by transcribing for your perusal a dialogue which I held some
time ago with Ralph Johnson, our old furnace man. Having while a
short time in Ms company, during two or tliree successive nights,
observed what I soon found to be a spiritual panorama of his life—a
life to which I had hitherto been a stranger—I ventured to broach the
matter to him, and began by saying, “ Ralph, your mother icas an old
woman before she died." “ She was,” he said. “ Did she not Tceep a
school some time before that event?" I added. “No,” he replied, “she
never kept a school.” “ Then a near relation did." “ An uncle of mine
did,” he said. “ And this uncle of yours lived in close connection with
your mother?" “He lived with my mother.” “ Very well," I said,
“ and while he lived with your mother, did she not help him to teach in the
school “ That is very likely.” “ There teas a stout, well-built, dark
ivoman in your family?" “Dark-haired and dark-eyed!” “ Jet
blade!" “ She was a sister.” “ There was also a man rather taller
and fairer than yourself, and one who used to shave thus ? ” (here I de¬
scribed how this man used to shave Mmself.) “ My brother Tom,” he
replied, “ was just such a man, and that is the way he used to shave.”
“ Beside these, there was a big boned man. A bony faced man used to
visit your house. I see him in connection with the dark woman." “ You
mean Bob Main; you know Bob Main, he is married to my sister.”
“ Then I see this man and you—now mark what I say—I see this man
and you, some thirty years ago, with spades on your shoulders, going away
to dig worms to fish with." “About that period, many a time, as you
say, that very man and I took spades upon our shoulders, and went
away together to dig worms to fish with.” “ I will change the subject.
Can you tell me who that bonny blue-eyed lassie was who used to wear her
flaxen hued locks hanging loosely over her shoulders, and whom you used to
caress on the sly now and then ? ” At this question poor Ralph drew a
heavy sigh, seeing which I said, “ Well, we will not go into that sad
matter now, but come at once to the widow." Here I described a person
whom he identified; he laughed, and said, “ Well, she was a queer
one 1 ” I replied, She ivas; but she teas a woman who had some good
qualities, and if she had been properly treated, she would have made a good
wife." “ Do you think so ? ” “ I am certain of it. She had good
pluck in her, and was not at all afraid of work." “ Well, that’s true.”
“ Then, as to certain matters between you and her—” “I was never
married to her mind.” “ I know that, and I will describe to you the man
who succeeded you in her affections. He was a big, burly, massive-
featured man, black-a-vised, with the sides of his face shaved, but with a
bushy beard on the chin." “ You have hit Blair off to a T.” “ Was his
name Blair?" I inquired. “It was; but he was not married to her
neither.” “ J know that., too." “ But how do you know, Skipsey ? You
have told me things that nobody knew but myself, and I am sure that
I have not told you; how do you know these things?” t(As I have
intimated, I see them." “ You see them ? ” “ J see them." “ Dear,
dear, I thought you were a queer man.” “ J am no wizard, Ralph;
there is no witchcraft init; I am no wizard." I think the old man re¬
joined, “ You are a very good one, and if I could do half what you do, I
would never come down a pit more.” “ Just try to keep yourself quiet,"
I interrupted, “ and I will endeavour to tell you a little more. I have
referred to your family ; I will revert to that theme. Had you not a near
relation who was a sailor? ” “ I had, an uncle.” “ And he lost his life
by falling overboard when the ship was in the harbour ? ” “ He did.”
“ You had another near relation who was a musician. I see him playing
upon a flute, then upon a clarionet, and then, and in his latter days especi¬
ally, upon a violin." “A cousin of mine,” he replied, “was the best
musician in the North.” “/ will now go one, two, three, four, five
generations back." “ Nay, I cannot go that far back.” “ I don’t expect
you can, nevertheless an ancestor of yours at that period inherited a
baronial mansion, which was situated at the foot of d high mountain, and
in front of which ran a river skirted ivith trees, a very beautiful place.
Now, tell me, did your parents not come from the Cheviots ? " “ My
mother was a Forster, and she came from Tweed-side.” “ It is through
your mother that you are descended from those big folks, but they came
down in the world, every succeeding generation becoming poorer and
poorer, and yet you have had some token that your mother's friends were
once well to do ! ” “ I spent,” he replied, “ the last ,£200—nO, not
.£200, but the last £160—I got from them, upon a drunken spree ! ”
Such, with the exception of a little alteration in the phraseology, is all
but a verbatim report of tMs strange dialogue.
As I have said, the decipherment of the phenomena upon which my
observations were founded required two or three short sittings, and at
each sitting I imparted to the old man the conclusions I had drawn,
and the responses they drew forth encouraged me to proceed in the
laborious yet fascinating task of the unravelment.
About three weeks after the conversations took place, Ralph said to
me one night, “ I cannot help thinking about what you told me. I have
told several people about it, and they cannot believe but that you must
by inquiries have gotten to know the circumstances related beforehand.
And man, it is no wonder that they should be so hard of belief; for,
although it would have been impossible for you to have so come at the
facts you told me, and though I know that they are facts, yet, man, it
seems to me so wonderful that I can hardly believe that you told me what
you did." Such is the response that is too often awakened, and such too
often is the only compensation meted out to the seer for the exercise of
one of the most divine faculties with which the human mind is gifted.
The fact is, that the mass of mankind are too much sunk in gross ignor¬
ance, or are too worldly-minded to be able to appreciate spiritual things ;
whilst men and women of intellect are too much the victims of mental
habits to conceive it possible that the hidden and unknown may be dis¬
covered by other than the ordinary methods. Singular as it may appear,
men of science in general have little knowledge of human nature, and having
discovered they can go through mental processes to which the mass of
their fellows are strangers, they jump to the conclusion that they and
they alone should hold the sceptre in the domain of thought, even though
that domain be the very reverse of the one over which they have been
accustomed to reign. To a superficial observer it will appear quite
natural that the man who possesses most knowledge of the external is
the person who ought to know most in regard to the spiritual or internal
universe, and that he who knows most about the human body should
therefore know most about the human soul. As there are few who are
inclined or are in a position to dispute the truth of such an assumption,
the know-alls, the scientific Dogberrys and Bottoms, the weavers of the
age, lord it over their fellows with a high hand. "We are all the victims
of hallucination who cannot submit to their dictum without a murmur.
For our present civilisation the world is undoubtedly immensely indebted
to science; but for the crowning glory of that civilisation, for our highest
forms of thought, and for those achievements which more than all else
258
THE! SPlHtTHAlilsT.
June 2, 1878:
beside go to prove man’s kinship with that Being in whose image he j(
was made, science has little to do. Science will enable us to work out j)
such problems as are solved in the creation of our steam-engines, our i)
canals, our docks, our railways, but the infinitely highest part of all jj
these—true conception—science cannot give, and if so, how much more i)
helpless is it in itself to give us a Parthenon, a Phidian Jupiter, a St. i(
Peter’s Cathedral, a Madonna and Child, a King Lear, a Faust, and all o
those sublime moral truths which from time to time have been imparted i)
by inspired lips to mankind, and have been forwarding the great work of | j
mental development from generation to generation, for hundreds and i)
thousands of years before the results of the so-called scientific age were i)
imagined. The world is apt to forget these things. But I must dis- K
mount my Pegasus, or change him for a less wayward nag. '■! |)
I have spoken of the terms clairvoyance, crystal-seeing, and mind-
reading, and I may here add that Mr. Harrison and other members of js
the British Association of Spiritualists, as well as Serjeant Cox and |)
other members of the Psychological Society would ascribe the revela- j)
tions made in the foregoing dialogue to some faculty signified by the last- |(
named term ; but if they mean by the term “ mind-reading ” aught else j)
than is signified by the seer-gift, the power to see spiritual phenomena, U
they would be at fault in such a conclusion. It would be well if those i(
learned men would try to give us a definition of what they mean by j)
“mind-reading” apart from “ clairvoyance.” The vulgar notion of the !(
term is, that it is the reading what is in the mind—the telling a person n
what he is thinking about, by a close inspection of the various kinds of |)
expression that for the time being are observed to flit over the face. To \l
such a gift I must own that I have very little pretension, and the data ||
from which the foregoing deductions were drawn, consisted of a series of j)
pictures illustrative of old Ralph’s life. Joseph Skipsey. it
At spirit circles mesmeric and spiritual phenomena are j
more or less blended, and the difficulty is to separate the j
two. If a seer reveals incidents in the present or joasif and ||
forgotten thoughts of some person present, and tells nothing \}
outside such rigid boundary, it is a fair inference that by I
some kind of mesmeric brain-sympathy, the memory of one j
individual takes objective form to the consciousness of another. 1)
When true revelations are made which never have been known • |
until that moment by anybody present, then the presumption j
is stronger of the intervention of spirits.
NEWSPAPER EDITORS HOAXED BY MESSRS. MASKEDYNE I
AND COOKE.
BY THE EDITOR.
In The Spiritualist of April 30th, 1875, I published an Ij
article pointing out how Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke’s j
automaton figure, Psycho, is worked by compression and j
exhaustion of the air inside the glass cylinder on which the !;
figure stands. This cylinder—which has its top and bottom
edges accurately ground—is passed round among the ob- jj
servers for examination, after which it is placed upon a h
piece of green baize. Under the green baize, and under the i ]
central axis of the cylinder, is a plate pierced with one large P
or several small holes, communicating with a pipe, which in h
its turn is attached to pneumatic apparatus behind the j
scenes. The bottom of the box of Psycho rests evenly upon
the top of the cylinder, and has holes in it opening inside U
the cylinder. Thus, air blown from the pneumatic apparatus j:
passes through the green baize, exerts compression inside |>
the cylinder, and inside Psycho’s box, where it is made h
either to start or to stop clockwork apparatus at the will of | \
the operator, the compression of the air effecting the starting |j
of the machinery, and the exhaustion of the air its stoppage, j
or vice versa.
Mr. W. H. Coffin afterwards informed me that he had come ||
to much the same conclusion about the method by which P
Psycho was worked, and had published them in an American
scientific periodical. The chief difference between our two i
independently-written explanations was that he thought that |
the whole figure was worked pneumatically, whereas I con- !
ceived that it was moved by clockwork, which was merely I;
started or stopped by pneumatic action.
Soon after the publication of my illustrated article, Messrs. I
Maskelyne and Cooke altered their advertisements in the !
daily papers to the following:—
The most flattering testimonial to Mr. Maskelyne, the sole con-
sti'uctor of Psycho, is undoubtedly the manifestation of public interest
as shown in the many communications received enclosing drawings P
illustrating theories as to how the effects might be produced. Mr. jj
Maskelyne, having no leisure to reply to correspondents seriatim, he j<
hereby acknowledges the compliments, and announces that the only j;
guarantee of the practicability of the several theories is to put them jj
into operation, when each theorist will discover how widely different ji
are drawings and a working model.
Directly after the publication in England and America of jj
the secret of Psycho, Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke set to
work to make new apparatus for the modification of the
conditions under which Psycho was presented to the public,
so as to throw the latter off the scent, and make them
believe that the automaton was not worked by variations in
the pressure of the air inside the cylinder. They did not
dare to assert in their advertisements that the figure was not
pneumatically worked, because the untruth of any such
statements would have been detected; they, however, suc¬
ceeded in hoaxing two newspaper editors into making state¬
ments calculated to mystity the public, and then Messrs.
Maskelyne and Cooke quoted in their advertisements the
newspaper assertions which had been made with so much
innocence and simplicity, and which the conjurors would not
have dared to have written for themselves.
The Times newspaper of June 19 th, 1875, fell into the
trap. An article in the Times of that date contains the
following paragraph, which Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke
afterwards quoted in their advertisements, about the pneu¬
matic theory of the working of Psycho :—
This theory appears to be completely exploded by the new mode in
which Messrs. Maskelyne and Cook now exhibit their automaton. A
small wooden pedestal under the glass is mounted upon three solid
wood feet; it is submitted to the examination of the audience before
being placed on the stage, and while Psycho is at work there is a clear
view underneath it.
Another newspaper which fell into the trap was the Field
of June 12th, which made the following statements about the
secret of Psycho
The secret, according to our cousin Jonathan, is pneumatic pressure.
Unluckily for this theory, Mr. Maskelyne has so modified his perfor¬
mance that pneumatic pressure is an impossibility, and, as the song
says, “ What’s impossible cannot be done.” It is true that originally
the glass cylinder on which the figure rests was fixed to the stage, and
it might have been that communication took place between the stage
and some person with an air pump concealed below; but, as now
shown, the floor has been overlaid with oilcloth in one piece, which can
be examined by the audience, and the wooden stand placed upon the
oilcloth has legs which enable one to see under it, and also render air
pressure from beneath impossible. It seems to us, then, that our trans¬
atlantic friends, in trying to expose Psycho, have only succeeded in ex¬
posing themselves. Psycho remains as much a mystery as ever.
What the controlling force is has not yet been discovered.
In this paragraph, so serviceable to Messrs. Maskelyne
and Cooke, the editor of the Field exposed his own sim¬
plicity more than that of anybody else. Popular journals
make such errors about scientific subjects, and are so liable
to be led astray thereupon, because they have no representa¬
tives competent to deal with them, that these newspaper
assertions did not carry conviction to my mind at the time ;
but I had not leisure to attend at the Egyptian Hall again
for the purpose of witnessing the improved performance
until long after the above advertisements were published. On
hearing that they placed Psycho upon a moveable platform,
I came to the conclusion that however much they might
run that platform about the stage before the performance
began, they would afterwards be sure to place it where they
could insert the nozzle of a pipe into some hollow chamber
concealed in the woodwork, and thereby establish communi¬
cation with their pneumatic apparatus. Or they might have
compressed air in the chamber, and use it at will by means
of an electrical valve, metallic communication with the
battery being made down the legs of the platform. I after¬
wards saw that they never worked Psycho except when the
edge of the platform was touching the scenic background.
One of the apparent under planks of the platform is not a
plank at all, but an air chamber. All the performers have
to do is to slip the nozzle of a pipe, say through some small
and apparently accidental crack in the background, and
Psycho is connected with the working apparatus. Or there
may be compressed air in the plank-chamber, governed by
the action of an electrical valve as already stated. The
committee on the stage should insist upon wheeling Psycho
about the stage all the time that he is playing cards, to show
that the figure is not connected with wires or pipes. Mr
Maskelyne would then have to raise his eyes and hands to
heaven, and, like the black man in the play, to exclaim—
Psycho’s occupation’s gone!
In order to show how Psycho is really worked, and how
thoroughly the editor of the Times, and the editor of the
Field have been hoaxed, I append extracts from patent
tfuNE 2, 1876.
THE
259
specification No. 1804, dated tlie 14tii May, 1875, and en¬
titled, Actuating Automaton Mechanism:—
“ We, John Nevil Maskelyne, of the Egyptian Hall, Piccadilly, in the
coanty of Middlesex, illusionist, and John Algernon Clarke, of Sutton
St. Mary, in the county of Lincoln, farmer, do hereby declare the nature
of the said invention for ? Improved means for actuating automaton
mechanism,’ to be as follows :—
“ The chief object of this invention is to set in action by an invisible
agency clockwork mechanism, or trains of wheelwork actuated by
weights or springs, and to increase at pleasure the speed of such
mechanism beyond what is due to the impelling force of the springs
or weights or to retard the action at will, the design being to imitate
more closely than heretofore the natural movements of human and other
figures.
“ As the controlling power we employ compressed air or gas, and
we may also use an exhaust in combination with compressed air. Sup¬
posing that it is desired to control two arrangemenis of clockwork me¬
chanism, we fit each apparatus with a locking lever for engaging with a
ratchet wheel on the motive-power axle, and between these levers and
near the free ends thereof we set up a vertical sliding rod which is carried
by a piston. This piston works in a fixed cylinder which is open at
bottom to a trunk or chamber in connection with a compressed air or
gas receiver, or with an air pump or bellows. The piston rod carries
a tappet for working one of the locking levers in its descent,
while the other is worked by the head of the rod striking it while as¬
cending.
“ When air is admitted to the under side of the piston from the
trunk or chamber, the piston will be forced upwards, and to effect the
return motion a coiled spring, or it may be a weight, is employed which
forces down the piston and its rod when released from the upward
pressure of the air. The ascent of the rod to its full height will lift one
of the locking levers and allow the mechanism with which it is con¬
nected to start into action.
“ This invention admits of the use of a small pedestal highly charged
with compressed air or gas, and capable of being placedjn any con¬
venient position for controlling by the emission of jets of the com¬
pressed air or gas, the action of separate pieces of mechanism, a
valve or stopcock in the pedestal being opened by means of an
electrical or other connection worked by the foot of the performer or
an assistant.”
Our last notice contained Mr. Maskelyne’s account of the
sleepless nights he had passed in perfecting Psycho. Could
a Mr. John Algernon Clarke, of Sutton St. Mary, farmer,”
throw any light on this point ? Did Mr. Clarke do all the
sleeping, and Mr. Maskelyne all the inventing ? The
patent was never completed, for my previous publication
(April 30th, 1875) of the secret would have rendered the
patent invalid.
©oTOsponlience.
[Orecti freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
STRONG PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS OF SPIRIT POWER IN THE LIGHT.
Sir,—Mr. Colman having kindly consented to afford me an oppor¬
tunity of witnessing the movement of solid objects in the light, through
his mediumship, paid me a visit for that purpose on Friday evening, the
12th inst. I invited Mr. Potts and a lady Mend to join me in the in¬
vestigation.
The medium’s hands being tightly secured behind his back, by strongly
sewing his' coat sleeves together at the wrists, he took his seat in a chair
placed partly inside the cabinet, the curtains hiding the back of the
chair, and falling across his shoulders, but leaving his face and body
full in view.
I then placed a volume of Hafed, Prince of Persia, on Mr. Col-
man’s knees, and we took our seats immediately in front of him. After
waiting a few minutes a scarcely perceptible movement was noticed of
the book; the movement increased until the book lifted itself up, opened,
and the leaves turned over. This having been repeated several times,
we each placed our hands, in succession, on the cover of the book, and
distinctly felt a strong pressure from within, pushing the cover up. The
book also answered “Yes” and “No” to questions, by flapping the
cover or jumping up—three times for “ Yes ” and once for “ No.”
It apparently manifested pleasure at the success of the experiment,
by dancing about on the medium’s knees in a lively manner.
Next a hand appeared over Mr. Colman’s head, affectionately stroking
his hair. We were allowed to take hold of it, and in no respect did it
differ from a living human hand. Yet I doubt that, even if the medium’s
hands had been free, he could have placed his hand upon his head in the
position in which this hand appeared, and strongly secured as he was,
it was simply impossible for him to raise a hand even to a level with his
shoulder-blades. We nevertheless carefully examined his wrists after
each manifestation.
A pencil and paper were next placed on Mr. Colman’s knees, resting
on a volume of newspapers to form a flat surface, and we drew our chairs
close to him, our knees nearly touching his, the lamp meanwhile giving
a good light. Scarcely had we taken our seats before the pencil was
raised by invisible agency, and commenced writing by itself, before our
very eyes. The writing finished, the pencil was shot out vigorously,
and fell on to the floor. On examination the writing on the paper was
found to be a private communication for Mr. Potts. A similar experi¬
ment with another piece of paper resulted in a communication being
written for me.
Each writing was signed with the Christian name of a deceased
relative.
We then placed a small folding slate (having a piece of pencil about
1J inch long attached to it by a string) on a chair, the slate was shut up
with the pencil inside. The chair was put at the entrance end of the
cabinet, the two front legs only being inside the cabinet; in fact, as far
as possible from the medium, so as to admit of the curtains being pulled
over it to keep it in darkness. It was absolutely impossible for Mr.
Cblman’s hands to reach the chair, or, in fact, for him to touch it with
any part of his person, secured as he was, even with the utmost stretch¬
ing of his body.- This fact we proved. Taking our seats, and listening
attentively, we heard the sound of the pencil writing on the slate, Mr.
Potts all the time keeping his hands on Mr. CSlman’s knees, so as to
detect the slightest movement on his part.
On examination, the following words were found to be written on
the slate:—
“ My dear friends, persevere in your good work.—John Scott.”
I then stood behind the medium’s chair, and placed my hands on his
hands secured behind his back. Mr. Potts sat directly in front of him,
and held the book, Hafed, flat on the palms of his hands, quite removed
from all contact with the medium’s body.
The book then, while held in Mr. Potts’ hands, repeatedly opened
itself, and the leaves turned over, my hands being, as already stated, on
those of Mr. C81man. This in full light.
A bundle of newspapers was then placed on Mr. Colman’s knees, and
at Mr. Potts’ request one of the papers was handed to him. He
then held it towards, but not touching, the medium, and requested that
it might be pulled out of his hand, when a violent tug pulled it from his
grasp.
Mr. Colman then seated himself quite clear of the cabinet. We
three sat close to him, almost knee to knee, the lamp was placed on a
table beside us, and the book put on his knees. It was then, under our
very noses, opened and shut by invisible means, and the leaves turned
over in every imaginable way. With a view to test the intelligence of
the power producing the manifestations, Mr. Potts requested that the
book should be opened and the leaves turned over three times in a
particular manner. This was done, although with evident difficulty,
the power being well-nigh exhausted, but nevertheless it was done
entirely to our satisfaction.
I forgot to mention that, in addition to the hand that was placed on
the medium’s head, as described above, a hand and arm was pushed
out from the bottom of the curtains, level with the medium’s feet, and
i the hand shook ours with unmistakable cordiality, and felt exactly like
(I a living human hand, and at times the curtains were agitated and
(| banged about in a violent manner, as if half a dozen people were inside
) | knocking them about.
) I In closing this account, I beg to draw your attention specially to the
(I fact that the manifestations all occurred in a good light. The medium
j| was secured in such a manner as to render deception on his part a
11 simple impossibility ; he was critically examined after each manifesta-
} j tion, and we were sitting close to him the whole time. Neither must
) | I forget to testify, which I do with very great pleasure, to his perfect
11 willingness to submit to any test that I thought fit to impose.
Even had I never before witnessed any of the phenomena of Spirit-
j I ualism, the experience of last Friday would alone have sufficed to
(I convince me, beyond all doubt, of their genuineness. In fact, nothing
(; could be more conclusive than the proof we had of unseen intelligence,
[: and I feel that this account does but feeble justice to the wonderful
(i manifestations we witnessed. Joseph Cotterell.
) j 10, Addison-street, Melbourne-square, Brixton,
5 j 16th May, 1876.
In endorsing, which I do most emphatically, the statements contained
) i in the above letter, I beg to state that the phenomena we witnessed, as
(i described by Mr. Cotterell, occurred under such stringent conditions
/ i as to render deception on the part of the medium an absolute impos-
(i sibility. We had proof, beyond all doubt or cavil, of the operation of
) i an invisible intelligent power, and a power withal that understood and
j I wrote intelligibly the English language. Hewlett Potts.
\ I 14, Adelaide-road, Haverstock-hill, N.W.
j( i AN ALARMING VISION.
i Sir,—The vision I am now going to describe had its roots evidently
j)| in the impression produced on me by some lines in the Medium and
!<i Daybrealc some weeks ago. I there found, in most convincing phrases,
j l a little disturbance on our planet predicted to take place on the 17th of
jH September next, when, among other trifles, part of the moon will come
K i down upon us with a terrible smash. I did not see at once the “ hoax ”
j> I at the bottom of it, for the names of eminent men of science—including
i \ i that of the Astronomer Royal—were so fittingly brought in that the
is | big “humbug ” walked in most stately fashion into my mind, and I did
i > i not see that it was only a lark to frighten old women out of their wits.
|( | In contemplating the inconvenient possibilities of the “smash” in
! s | question, I resolved to find out in the almanac the phase of the moon on
j); the 17th of September, hoping to please the scientific readers of the
i (| Medium with the glad tidings that only the first quarter of the moon
i could be despatched, thereby considerably reducing the amount of
l)j damage—no mean consolation for the troubled assurance offices, too.
j( | But now, of course, I let the affair alone, and have even given up the
1^; idea of using my “ circle ” to establish a rapport with the “ Man in the
j) | Moon,” to court his kindly protection.
j|| To return to my “vision.” In a vivid dream I beheld an immense
| crowd of people in hot debate about Spiritualism. All tests were set at
|( i nought, and every attempt of demonstration cried down with “ Swindle I
Hi Conjuring 1 Unconscious muscular cerebration 1 ” and other “ations”
266
THE SPIRITtJAilST.
June 2, 1876,
held out by those scientific professors who could get hold of a lamp post
to preach from, in deafening shouts about “ unchangeable natural laws.”
The noise grew terrific (the approach of runners to the grand stand at
Epsom being a mere whisper to it), and I thought I would wake myself
with a jerk out of my dream, when all of a sudden all faces were turned
to the sky, where the dense clouds dispersed as quickly as those in a
theatre, and—Oh! Wonder! Big black letters covered the whole
horizon, and I read the following words:—
“Dear Mankind,—Whereas no test whatever seems strong enough to
convince you that we spirits still preserve some powers of our own, and since
you have crucified, burned, tormented, and ill-treated all those who had a
mission from us to put down your conceit, we will give you a proof which
will force you to accept what you now deny. If not, the whole lot of you
shall be swept away as before, with the difference that no Noah’s ark nor
Boyton’s apparatus shall be of any avail, for we will set all on fire. We have
arranged, in order to suit all shades of intellect, a terrible little earthquake,
which, after crumbling Deansgate in Manchester, will more or less smash
Oxford-road, give Owen’s College a sound shake, and, after leaving a crack
wide enough to be approached only with caution, will proceed to London-road
station, which will tumble down like a card-house. Then it will go by express
on the North-Western line to London, play football with the Royal Academy,
and upset gleefully the whole of the West-end, leaving (as a special test for
the survivors) the British Museum and surroundings untouched. There will
be thousands killed and many more crippled. Date not yet fixed. Earth¬
quake to commence at 12 (midnight) punctually (Greenwich time). Refresh¬
ments provided. Coffee at eight. (Signed.) Manager of the Occult Forces
of the Universe. Christian Reimers.
2, Dude-avenue, Manchester.
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—It affords me great pleasure to be able through your valuable
paper to testify to the effect of the healing mediumship of Dr. Monck,
in a severe attack of rheumatism, through which my father was unable
to do his work for several weeks, it being in his arms and shoulders.
He tried many things to remove it, but failed till I sent to our friend
Dr. Monck, who kindly gave his advice about the case. He said that
it would be better to have a mesmerised shirt than a piece of mesmerised
flannel, as the pain did not stay in one place, but went from one
shoulder to the other. He sent, at my request, a mesmerised shirt,
which, I am glad to say, has removed it effectually. I give this testi¬
mony so that other friends suffering from similar complaints may be
induced to try the same remedy. A. Bodell.
Belper, Derby.
[It is said of St. Paul that he sent “ aprons unto the sick,” and they
recovered; and if cures of the kind mentioned in this letter are ever so pro-
nounced as to be beyond mistake, the power at work would seem to be of the
same nature. Might not the attacks of rheumatism have departed without the
use of the mesmerised shirt ?—Ed.]
A MATERIALISATION SEANCE AT CHALK FARM. K
Sir,—Mr. Bullock, jun., having been engaged at Mrs. Olive’s, 15, |
Ainger-terrace, Ainger-road, Chalk Farm, to give a series of physical j |
seances weekly, I had the pleasure of attending that held at her house |)
on Monday evening, the 16th inst. The manifestations obtained were \\
of such a character as to induce me to think they will interest your i |
readers, so I herein give you as many of the particulars as I can j
recollect.
Mrs. Olive’s exceedingly witty and humorous control, Hambo, having !)
amused us for a short time, Mr. Bullock’s controls—Lily and Daniel j
Watts—gave unmistakable proofs in the dark of their presence, and in i
various astonishing and interesting ways; such as fanning us, touching j |
us with hoops, tubes, and guitars, placing hoops around the necks of |
two gentlemen, playing the guitar and several bells to the tunes of a i J
musical box, and to our singing; at the same time floating the guitar i j
over our heads and touching the ceiling with it.
They also wound up the musical box, set it going, stopped it, made it j j
play fast or slow, in answer to our audible and mental requests, and |
bumped it against the ceiling, although it weighed upwards of 20 lbs. |)
They concluded this part of their performance by taking off Mr. and ij
Mrs. Bullock’s boots, laying his in my lap and with hers patting the j j
sitters on their knees, &c., and taking my chair from under me and ;
placing it on the table, at the same time laying me out at full length on |
the same. |
Lily then said that if we put the medium in the cabinet Daniel would i
try to show himself. The lamp was lighted and placed in a corner of i
the room, so that we could distinctly see every object in it. A gentle- jj
man then secured the medium by tying tape round his wrists, and l)
fastening him to his chair, sealing all the knots in the tape. He was j
then placed in the cabinet, with the bells, hoops, and paper tube, and :
was the only visible occupant of it.
Very shortly after the curtain was closed the various instruments ij
were heard, some of them being protruded through the aperture of the i j
curtain, and some shown at the top of it. The materialised face, hands, : j
and arms of Daniel Watts were successively shown, and after we had |
sung a hymn or two he himself drew aside the curtain and advanced into !
the centre of the circle, holding close to him in front a long white robe i
with one hand, whilst with the other he pushed it forward before his i j
feet. He remained in view two or three minutes, and then retired back- j
wards. From the position in which I was sitting I could see underneath i
the robe, and it seemed to me that he was naked except in front, his |
side and legs being plainly visible to me. jj
Lilly then asked me to come into the cabinet and see the medium, i
and Daniel at the same time. I did so, taking hold of Daniel’s hand jj
with my right, whilst I laid my left on the medium’s head.
Daniel afterwards controlled the medium, and asked me if I was i
certain that I saw him and the medium at the same time distinctly. I i
answered that I saw and touched both the figure and the medium at
the same time.
This interesting seance was brought to a close by some more physical
manifestations, in which Hambo joined Lily and Daniel in producing an
orchestral accompaniment to our singing, by playing the guitar, bells,
and tambourines in unison therewith. Geo. Starnes.
22, Sparsholt-road, Crouch-hill, N., May 23, 1876.
A NEW AND EXTRAORDINARY MANIFESTATION OF SPIRIT POWER.
Sir,—After having often described phenomena, purely psychological'
—phenomena which are of the highest importance, inasmuch as they
seem to prove to us in an irrefragable manner, the existence of the soul
and its immortality—I will now describe some physical manifestations,
certainly less interesting than the others, but very remarkable. I say
“ seem to prove,” because it is not yet sufficiently proved that the spirits
who manifest to us, are not different beings in creation to ourselves,
beings who never have lived upon our earth, although they say so and
persistently affirm it. When so important a question is at issue, we must
examine it thoroughly, and not come to a hasty conclusion.
I begin by relating a manifestation which took place for the first time
in one of our recent seances. Eight persons were seated round a table
in complete darkness—of these eight, three were mediums. The first
manifestations were of the usual commonplace nature. For the sake of
variety I asked the spirits if they could change the places of the eight
persons round the table. They replied that they would do so at
once, and each individual found himself immediately in a different
place, without having felt that he moved at all. '
Two Portuguese, who were present at a seance for the first time, and
who were even more astonished than we at witnessing so extraordinary
a proceeding, requested that it might be done again. The spirits con¬
sented* and these two gentlemen, in order to prevent the experiment
succeeding, caught fast hold of the table, interlacing their arms in
those of their neighbours. Upon two raps being given we struck a
light, and not only were our two novices removed from their places
as well as the others, but they were discovered in the same position
that they had taken in order, as we said, to neutralise the power.
They looked at one another in astonishment, they were stupefied,
and we clearly perceived what their sensations were. How indeed
could one fail to be astonished at witnessing such a phenomenon?
What are the means used by the spirits to produce it ? Besides,
how did they manage to prevent persons so rapidly moved from feel¬
ing any movement whatever ? This is what we will not at present
take upon ourselves to explain; it is what perhaps no one will ever
be able to do. Nevertheless, as we have cut the gordian knot of other
phenomena, in a manner that the spirits have acknowledged to bo
correct, we should endeavour, if possible, to solve this problem.
C. Pereyra.
Paris.
MR. MASKELYNE (MASKELYNE AND COOKE) ON “GENUINE PHENOMENA.”
Sir,—I do not know whether attention has ever been called to some
remarkable admissions by the Egyptian Hall conjuror, in a published
correspondence, arising out of a challenge from a well-known Spirit¬
ualist, or whether the former has been called upon, publicly or privately,
for an explanation of his meaning. Mr. Maskelyne is popularly sup¬
posed to attribute all occult phenomena to trickery, and though I have
attended several of his performances, I never heard him tell his au¬
dience, as he says he is accustomed to do at every performance, that he
“ produces some phenomena in a genuine way,” ».e., as he afterwards
explains, without trickery. Here are the passages referred to, taken
from the published correspondence, in pamphlet form, entitled, “ £1,000
Beward. Maskelyne and Cooke. An Expose of the Falseness of their
Pretensions. By Iota. (Proofs corrected by Mr. Maskelyne). London:
J. Bums ”:—
“ In accepting this challenge, I wish you distinctly to understand
that I do not presume to prove that such manifestations as those stated
in the Beport of the Dialectical Society are produced by trickery.
I have never denied that such manifestations are genuine, but I contend
that in them there is not one iota of evidence which proves that de¬
parted spirits have no better occupation than lifting furniture about.
Such phenomena are made the basis upon which swindling adventurers
support their plots, schemes, and villany to rob the credulous.” In a
subsequent letter—“ I have never stated that you cannot produce some
phenomena in a genuine manner; I have done this, or assisted in doing
it, myself, and tell my audience so at every performance; yet I am not
a medium, but I know that, if I were scoundrel enough, I could soon
become one, and should have no difficulty in humbugging Spiritualists
to an alarming extent.” To which Iota replies: “ You say you tell
your audience at every performance that you admit that we have
some genuine phenomena. I confess that I have never been able
distinctly to understand your remarks on this head. You seem to
me to say that most of the so-called phenomena are humbug, but
some few genuine; that the genuine ones are produced by trickery,
exactly as your own stage performance is. Nor can I gather any
more from the admissions in your letters.” The only answer to this
is in a postscript to Mr. Maskelyne’s next letter—“ How genuine
phenomena can be produced by trickery I am at a loss to know. If you
understand me thus, my remarks must be a contradiction, and I must
look to them.” If Mr. Maskelyne really would do as he professes—tell
his audience that some of the phenomena, even of those witnessed on
his stage, are genuine, and would also explain what he means by
genuine, it might lead to an intelligent appreciation of them on the part
of the public from the “ psychic force ’* point of view: for this, it is
nearly evident to me, is what he hinted at. He denies their Spirit¬
ualistic origin, and to me, at all events, it is quite credible that the same
THE SPIRITtJALIST.
261
June 2, 1876,
force, the manifestations of which, under the control of a foreign intel¬
ligence, yield us the objective evidence of Spiritualism, can by practice
be projected at the will of the person from whose organisation it pro¬
ceeds. The well attested fact of transcorporeal action would cover most
of the manifestations which I have witnessed at public seances, and I am
disposed to think that in the majority of cases spirit agency is rather
employed in disengaging the interior fluidic body of the medium than in
building up an independent organism, which, however, it is probable
can be done when occasion requires it. The fa,ct that direct writing is
frequently tins facsimile of the medium’s own, is nearly conclusive upon
this point.
Having considerable admiration, and, I confess, some kindness for
Mr. Maskelyne, I am sorry to be obliged to assent to “ lota’s” conclu¬
sion—that either he knows nothing of Spiritualism, or wilfully mis¬
represents it, to curry favour with the ignorant public, and am afraid
that the last alternative is the more probable. Can he be altogether
ignorant of the fact that mediumship, which he identifies with fraud, is
not confined to those who make money by it: but that the same—aye,
and far more wonderful, phenomena occur in the presence of persons of
independent means, position, and education, who do and can derive no
possible material advantage from the gift ? At all events it may be
supposed that, his mission being to expose Spiritualism, he has attended
the seances of the best professional mediums in this country and
America. It would add greatly to the attractions of the Egyptian Hall
if Mr. Maskelyne could emulate what I have recorded of Dr. Slade.
But there would be one drawback; the public, at length,fusing its
common sense, would find out that he was a medium, and not all his
disclaimers (which from the above quoted admissions would seem
almost to turn upon a quibble on the meaning of mediumship) would
persuade them that he was not. Whether he really is a medium is a
question with me undecided. If I had never seen other phenomena
than his, and under his conditions, I certainly should not accept them
as the products of an occult force, being ignorant of the resources of
conjurors. When a conjuror does something, no person unacquainted
with his art can say with certainty that he does not do much more than
he appears to do; so, when he is concealed from view, you cannot say
what he can or cannot do. But when, as in Dr. Slade’s case, the medium
sits perfectly passive, in a brilliantly lighted room, while the phenomena
are occurring at a distance, I am entitled, notwithstanding my ignorance
of conjuring, to infer a difl'erent cause—not because I cannot detect the
modus operatidi, but because there is no operation, no manipulation
whereby my observation can be deceived; and, though I had never
heard of Spiritualism, in that case the man’s protests that it was all
trickery would pass by me, as do Mr. Maskelyne’s denunciations, like
the idle wind. 0. C. M.
Temple, May 27th.
LORD GARVAGH AND CHARLES DICKENS ON PRE-EXISTENCE.
Sir,—The following are extracts from The Pilgrim of Scandinavia,
by Lord Garvagh (Sampson Low and Co., 1875):—
“ This was Thingualla, the largest lake in Iceland, so celebrated in
the past. My own impressions on first seeing this distinctly were that
I had seen it before: an island in the centre, another one toward the
side, a promontory, every winding of the shore, each part of it, the
whole scene, struck me as familiar, and as if in some previous existence
I had visited and dwelt upon the spot, or recollected living there, and
had known it from a child. We find a similar experience in the life of
Charles Dickens, who describes it on his first sight of Ferrara:—‘ On
the foreground was a group of silent peasant-girls, leaning over the
parapet of a little bridge; in the distance a deep bell; the shadow of
approaching night on everything. If I had been murdered there in
some former life I could not have seemed to remember the place more
thoroughly, or with more emphatic chilling of the blood; and the real
remembrance of it acquired in that minute is so strengthened by the
imaginary recollection, that I scarcely think I could forget it.’ ’’
The above is found in pages 42 and 43. Again, Lord Garvagh says,
in page 148:—
“ The men stood in groups, and sang in chorus many of their ancient
songs, one with a tune like the ‘ Hardy Norsemananother very lovely
song, ‘ Vort land! vort land ! vort foster land /’ which recalled to me
indefinable impressions of a previous state of existence—
‘ Ere, sure as Hindoo legends tell, I loft our parent climes afar,
Immured in mortal form to mourn—
So that I called for it again.’ ”
The above belief in the recurrence of ancient impressions, first in the
case of seeing a place never before visited during life, and secondly, in
the case of hearing an ancient patriotic song for the first time, seem
worth recording, as here two of the senses were acted upon in the same
manner, upon the same person, and in the same direction.
Scrutator.
THE LATE MR. GUPPY.
Sir,—I append some more of the messages given through Mme.
De Yeh’s writing mediumship, and purporting to be given by the late
Mr. Guppy:—
Well, I feel honoured and monstrously obleeged by your delicate atten¬
tion in recalling me to the tender memories of those I left behind me,
whether enemies or friends, and I hope that if I have said anything
worth repeating or listening to, it may not be without fruit, for if we
only knew when on earth how often a mere word carelessly breathed by
us may be the means of good or evil, how differently would we measure
our expressions of thought, wishes, or will. Tell that gentleman, of
whom you were speaking, that I am glad he approves my confession of
ignorance, as it may make him look out for himself.
j Ques.— What regulates the length of time a newly-arrived spirit has
;| to pass before waking up ?
Ans.—All depends upon our having been prepared or not. Many are
| prepared without being consciously Spiritualists; the inward life, the
|| inward convictions, have prepared such to open their eyes immediately
11 on reaching these shores; they awake, stand up, and are ready to begin
•j their work. Others, on the contrary, including so-called philosophers—
(i men of intelligence—arrive on this side in a state of sleep; much
)\ time has then to elapse before they can be awakened to the conscious-
|| ness of the change of existence, and when awake they know nothing,
| understand nothing, have all to learn, and all to unlearn (the latter being
i the more difficult task of the two). Then, when they understand their
| position, they are overpowered, and perceive that those who on earth
i they looked upon as perfectly ignorant are placed much above them,
i Ques.— What kind of a house are you living in f
i Ans.—Amlin a house? Well, house is not the expression. I am
| where others are. I am in a hall, as it were, without roofs or walls,
i How can I describe it? There are no limits, no beginning, no end, no
| top, no bottom. No words can express my meaning, so it is useless
I trying.
j Upon reference being made to something he had said when in the flesh,
(I it was written :—
j Pray, my dear friend, do try and forget my double-dyed asinine
II remarks. Good God, when you say these things it is like a stab, as I
(i feel that I was an ass. I feel now so thoroughly small, so idiotic, so to
jj say, that you must not be astonished at my recurring so continually to
j my ignorance. It is such a shock to feel that one has passed for a
U cunning sage, when one has been a perfect empty-headed fool. How-
|| ever, I am now allowed to see what truth is, and as we take
| in this new revelation we expel and endeavour to destroy all our old
(i and false convictions. I perceive now how subtly I ignored any good
11 thoughts which wished to gain control, when I could have chosen
(| between a good or a bad act,—and you are astonished that I feel so
11 small! I tell you, that could we spirits close our eyes, knowing that
/1 we should never open them again, we would do it in order to avoid
iji seeing the blots, the black, grimy colour of our earthly thoughts, wishes,
11: and actions.
Ques.—Can you explain how the writing on the scroll in your spirit
iy; photograph is done ?
iji Ans.—By sympathy. My thoughts, like photography, make an im-
|j| pression—a lasting one, I mean—although fluidic, not evanescent.
I jj Ques.—-Gan you tell us anything about pre-existence ?
||| Ans.— Just leave that question for the present. I am struggling with
i jj my preconceived ideas and judgments; I hope to throw them off like
j j| an old coat—to shut out old Samuel, and find myself a young Sammy,
j|j prepared to begin my ABC, and be guided and led by the hand.
Ijj Ques.—How is it I cannot get any of my other departed friends to
I j | communicate with me f
| jj Ans.—The old question—the old answer. I am awake, up, and look-
| j | ing about me; they are I know not where—perhaps still asleep, or, if
|) i not asleep, at least drowsy. J. N. Gledstanes.
II j Paris,  
A MATERIALISED FORM FLOATING IN THE AIR.
Sir,—By request of our spirit friends, I have great pleasure in
||i sending an account of a seance held on Thursday evening, May 25th, at
|jl Mrs. "Woodforde’s, 90, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, Mr.
| j | A. Cblman medium. There were seven present, without the medium, in-
j jj eluding Mrs.Woodforde, who sat in the circle. At about eight o’clock the
i jj circle was formed (no table used), I sitting opposite to Mr. Colman; the
j j| door was secured, and the gas turned off. Presently the musical box was
| j i wound up and floated a considerable distance away from the sitters, and
iji a quantity of liquid scent was sprinkled on each of us ; we all sat with
ij| our hands joined, and the medium clapping his hands, proving that he
j jj had nothing to do with the movement of the objects,
j jj An interesting test was given to a gentleman present by a spirit, who
ijj told him where he had been, and the company he had kept, and pro-
j jj posed a test that would convince him, viz., that he would go and fetch a
ijj hand-bill from the spot; in a few minutes we heard the rustling of the
jjj paper, and a veritable hand-bill was put into the hands of the gentle-
j j man. The moral of this is that nothing is hid from the spirits, and
j j every word and action are known by those who surround us, invisible to
j|j our mortal ken. Lesson—Cultivate purity of life, and be careful of the
jjj company you keep.
The spirit known as John Scott said that as the conditions were very
I favourable he would give a good seance, which was verified by what
j followed. After a short break Mr. CSlman went into the cabinet (which
was the ante-room of the apartment in which we were sitting, and two
large curtains were drawn across the opening, about ten feet high, and
reaching from the ceiling to the floor). He requested me to fasten him
securely, which I did by tying a tape round his waist, and knotting it at
I the back; then I made another knot four inches from the first, and
brought this close to the back spindle of the chair, and tied another
knot at the back; I then carried the ends of the tape to the leg of the
piano, and repeated the same there. The chair was placed about nine
feet away from the curtains, so that I guarantee the security of the test,
which was made at the particular request of Mr. Colman himself, my
I own judgment convincing me of the worthlessness of tests^ except for
those who have faith in none but themselves. I then retired to my
seat in the large room, when we were told to light three gas jets. In
a few minutes there appeared a large naked man’s arm and hand, and
then a smaller feminine arm and hand, fully nine feet from the floor;.
afterwards two hands, with a quantity of white muslin; they gradually
unfolded it until it reached a depth of six feet, then drawing it up it was-
shot out to a length of nine feet, and drawn in again. The gas was-
then put out, and presently a form appeared with a light, which I had
j frequent opportunities of closely observing. It was a transparent white;
262
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 2, 1876.
oval stone, about six inches long by four wide, and one inch thick, which
was kept in both hands the whole time. The spirit said that he was
William Scott, brother to John Scott, and spoke of the pleasure he had
in being able to demonstrate the immortality of the soul in such a
manner, adding that the present phase of materialisation was but the
beginning. He permitted me to touch his hands and face, and also the
white garment, a piece of which was afterwards cut off and presented
to me. He placed the stone, which at times was very brilliant, in the
folds of the robe, and also in his beard, which was a long and thick one,
nearly black at the top, shading down to gray at the bottom. He was
walking in our midst for fully fifteen minutes, and talking to us nearly
the whole time. He then floated right up to the ceiling, and touched it
with his hands and lamp, the light from which enabled us to see the
form quite distinctly. He then stood with his back towards us, holding
the light in front; we thus saw the form in deep shadow; it was the
full outline of a body unclothed, the white robe extending down about
four feet. Before retiring he gave me a symbol, the value of which is
known only to myself, and after asking if we were quite satisfied, he
returned to the cabinet.
I took the opportunity of very closely examining the features, and I
noticed that the eyes were set close, and the line of sight was quite
horizontal, the nose was narrow, but not very prominent, and the (ap¬
parent) flesh milk-warm; looking afterwards at Mr. Cblman’s features,
I found his line of sight is at an angle, and the nose prominent; his
fingers also are thicker than those of the spirit, so that the two were
quite different, and yet, strange to say, the voice of the spirit partook
(though but in small degree) of the medium’s, who has an impediment
in his utterance, caused by a physical infirmity in the organs of speech.
With this exception, it was unlike the medium’s voice, as it was
measured and sonorous.
The spirit Lily then again showed her arms and hands, and gave me
a private symbol, making three in all; these being unknown to the
others, were to me a sufficient test (apart from all others) of the genuine¬
ness of the manifestations.
The spirit, John Scott, then spoke, and promised to give me his
autograph (which was found in the cabinet, written in ink at the foot of
a short note). After he said “ Good night,” I immediately went inside
the cabinet, and, the gas being lighted, Mr. Colman was still in a deep
trance and his body nearly rigid. I cut the tape at the spindle-rail, as
I thought to free him, when, to my great surprise, the central loop of
the tape, formed by tying round the waist, was intact. How this had
been removed, leaving all the rest of the knots as I had made them, is
a mystery which I do not pretend to solve. The medium’s coat sleeves
had been sewed together, with his hands behind his back, at the
commencement, and in this condition I left him when I went out of the
cabinet. How much or how little of the medium was used by the
spirit form I cannot determine ; but in any case the difference was so
marked that it was impossible to mistake the one for the other, and if
it was the medium, then it was nothing less than a transfiguration.
William Oxley.
Higher Broughton, Manchester, May 26th, 1876.
MR. EGLINTOK IK MANCHESTER. i U
Sir,—I observe in your issue of the 26th a letter from Mr. Reimers, ; (j
headed, “Remarkable Mould of a Materialised Spirit Hand,” in which i )j
he tries to vindicate Mr. Eglinton’s reputation from the “ lobster-fangs i (I
of suspicion.’’ Mr. Reimers writes;—“ It is, therefore, to me a pleasant i [i
duty to state the real facts as they present themselves to us towards |) i
Mr. Eglinton’s vindication. Instead of the alleged difference of colour | (j
in the mould, we found none whatever; the mould was clean, the 1
remainder of the paraffin dirty. The colouring stuff, also, had sunk to i (i
the bottom to a large extent, and the spirit had successfully fished out j \ i
the clean surface of the mixture.’’ j j
The foregoing explanation by Mr. Reimers proves conclusively, to my i (j
mind, what has been frequently observed, namely, that enthusiastic ; (\
Spiritualists are often too ready to testify to certain phenomena as facts, :) |
when they have not sufficient proof to support their conclusions, or, in /
other words, when the facts are, at least, consistent with an opposite i (i
conclusion. In Mr. Reimers’ case I am sure it is not from any desire j |i
to misrepresent facts, but, certainly, more caution seems to be desirable i f j
before putting forward such an explanation as the foregoing, since it j (j
forces me, in the interests of truth, to appear in the ungracious cka- J)j
racter of sceptic towards Mr. Eglinton’s mediumship, by appearing to |(|
throw doubt on the genuineness of the mould Mr. Reimers describes, i)
If the real facts appear to suggest that Mr. Reimers is mistaken in con- j /1
eluding the mould to be undoubtedly genuine, I submit that they are | (
equally insufficient to prove that it is undoubtedly false.
The facts are these: a paraffin bath was prepared in the ordinary I) i
way, and placed behind a screen, behind which the medium sat in the i (i
dark, I being in the light. During a portion, but not the whole, of this | [i
time, Mr. Eglinton’s hands were in view, through a hole in the curtain I (
cut for the purpose. Presently, after hearing several splashes in the i \j
water, or bath, a voice directed me to take out a mould from the bucket | >:
of cold water, which I did, and found a complete mould of a female hand ; /
floating on the surface. After the medium had come out of the trance I j \!
asked him to give me a mould of his hand, which he proceeded to do. i >]
This mould was taken in the same paraffin bath, and when it had i ) i
cooled I compared it with that of the spirit hand. The result proved i si
conclusively that it was not the hand of the medium, but, strange to j >!
say, the wax of which it was composed was found to be considerably jo
different in tone from that of the medium’s mould, or the rest of my jsj
paraffin. It has a dirty white colour, whereas that which I provided j)j
was of pearly whiteness. As I did not consider the result a satisfactory 1(1
test, I did not care to trouble your readers with a report of it, but, as i)i
Mr. Reimers has published a version of the story which I do not recog- l?j
nise as accurate, I venture to send you this correction. Mil
In justice to Mr. Eglinton, I ought to say that an explanation of
this dirty appearance of the mould was given. It was stated that
the bucket (which had been used for coals, but previously cleaned out),
was dirty, and particles of dirt had floated on to the surface of the
paraffin, and, therefore, the first mould taken was dirtier than the
second one, and also because in cooling down the paraffin to the
requisite temperature to enable the medium to dip his own hand into
the mixture, some more of the dirty paraffin was removed from the sur¬
face, leaving the rest cleaner for the second mould.
This explanation is not quite so satisfactory as I should have wished,
because no specks of dirt are visible in the mould of the spirit hand.
The whole of the wax is of one dirty hue, whilst all the rest of the wax
is clean and pure.
As an instance of the loose manner in which facts are sometimes re¬
ported by Spiritualists, I may venture to refer to the following, which
appears in your last week’s issue. After giving a highly interesting
report of a seance, where certainly some astounding phenomena appear
to have been witnessed, Mr. Oxley proceeds to say:—“Dr. Monck now
retired behind the curtains in the corner of the room, and the light being
extinguished a luminous hand appeared and touched some of us; the
light reflected from the hand enabled us to distinguish the outline of a
head and bust. I then felt what appeared like hair touch my face three
times, also the wafting of a fine gauzy garment which passed over my
head, and almost enveloped it in passing. This ceased, and a voice (I
presume using the organism of Dr. Monck, but it might have been direct
for aught I know to the contrary) addressed us for about five minutes,
but being unprepared I took no notes, and the statements passed from
memory, so that I cannot repeat what was said.”
Now I think most persons will agree that this portion of the seance,
as above described, is of no value whatever to non-Spiritualists, because
a child might see that, from the words of your correspondent, nothing
then took place which could not be explained by natural causes.
In future, it would be very desirable if the precise conditions under
which the facts are witnessed were always reported, so that readers may
see that there is at least reasonable ground to suppose that the spiritual
explanation is the only one which covers the whole ground.
I am aware that with tried mediums it is unnecessary for Spiritualists
to be always assuming the probability as well as the possibility of fraud,
but in reports that are intended to impress non-Spiritualists, the
absence of such precautions renders the report quite useless.
Fbedk. A. Binney.
Manchester.
A CIRCLE IN THE NORTH-WEST DISTRICT OF LONDON.
Sir,—Spiritualists of the earlier time will remember very well Mr.
W. Wallace. A year or two ago a public recognition of his services,
partly in his capacity of “ missionary medium,’’ was made to him in the
form of a testimonial, accompanied with a subscription purse. With the
sum so subscribed he endeavoured to establish himself as a photographer.
His business is still so slender that he can attend freely to Spiritualism.
For some time past he and his wife have held a weekly seance for
trance-speaking, personation, and tests. It has been lately pressed upon
them to increase their accommodation for receiving investigators, and at
the same time add to the interest by introducing, if possible, the pheno¬
mena of materialisation.
A commencement has been made, and I formed one of the circle of
last Wednesday evening. I found that Mr. Bullock, jun., was the
medium upon whom they depended for the evolution of the phenomena
of materialisation. We had a most satisfactory seance, under strict test
conditions. Some of the phenomena were in the light, others in the
absence of light; during the latter we had playing of instruments by
the spirits in accompaniment to our singing, conversation between the
spirits and ourselves, through the entranced medium and with the spirit
voice direct; we had also movements of objects. In the light, mode¬
rately subdued, there was the production, through the openings, central
and lateral, of the cabinet, of hands, and of the head and bust of the
spirit Daniel Watts.
To enable these seances to be continued weekly it was suggested that
Mr. Wallace should receive a moderate subscription from each visitor,
and he has agreed for every Wednesday evening. There seems to be a
want of facilities for a circle in that quarter of the suburbs. Mr.
Bullock, jun., will continue his attendance. Mr. Wallace’s house is in
the line of the Kentish Town omnibuses, and a few doors from the
Midland Railway station. J. Dixon.
8, Great Ormond-street.
BERKELEYI8M.
Sir,—Mr. H. G. Atkinson asks me whether I agree with him in
“ the fundamental objection to Berkeley’s position, that if the things
perceived are external to the percipient they cannot be also per¬
ceptions.” This objection does not seem to me to be a valid one. Dr.
Collyns Simon, as quoted by Mr. Atkinson, incidentally pointed out
that the expression “ external to the percipient ” is an improper one, if
it be true that the percipient is unextended, “ and has therefore neither
an inside nor an outside ”—a position in which Mr. Atkinson and
myself seem to agree. Externality is a relation that holds between
phenomena, not between phenomena and the Ego. We may talk of a
table being external to our bodies, but hardly so properly of its being
external to or not external to ourselves. Instead of “ external to,” we
should say independent of the percipient. Put in this shape, any
appearance of force that the objection may have had vanishes. Ber¬
keley’s position is, that the things perceived are dependent on the
percipient. Now, it can hardly be called an objection to a position to
deny it point blank, without reason assigned. Yet Berkeley’s position
is thus denied at starting by the assumption that the things perceived
are external to, or, in other words, not dependent on the percipient.
June 2, 1876.
263
THE SPI
To assume the contradiction of an opponent’s proposition, deduce a
consequence therefrom, and urge that consequence as a refutation of
the original proposition, is not a very reasonable proceeding. The
truth is, that the objection here urged against Berkeleyism is of im¬
portance only from the point of view of the propounder, as expressing
the fact that he does not himself accept the doctrine, but not as sup¬
plying any reason why others should not do so. But it must not be
forgotten that there is a sense of the words in which Berkeley would
not declare or allow that the things perceived are dependent on
the percipient. When we talk of “ the things perceived,” we may
either mean the sensible impressions we derive from things, which
it is generally admitted is all that we can know of them, or we
may mean the unknown cause of those impressions, the vovfievov as
opposed to the <l>aiv6fi£vov. This cause is, according to most philosophers,
a passive something called “substance;” according to Berkeley, it is
an active volition of the Deity. The world, on Berkeley’s theory, is no
unreal phantom, but firm as the fiat of the Almighty, and unalterable as
TTig will. So long as beings exist endowed with similar perceptions to
our own, so long our world will last. Remove all such beings, and it
would still exist in the mind of God, ready to start into existence again
on their reappearance.
It is, I know, a very prevalent idea that Berkeley’s speculations,
though ingenious and fanciful, are so immediately felt to be false by the
common-sense understanding, as to need no serious refutation. Nowhere
is this idea better expressed than by Byron, the exact words of whose
witticism I may be permitted to quote. They occur at the beginning of
the eleventh canto of Don Juan:—
“ When Bishop Berkeley said ‘ there was no matter,’
And proved it—’twas no matter what he said;
They say his system ’tis in vain to batter, .
Too subtle for the airiest human head; j (j
And yet who can believe it ?” I\\
What Bishop Berkeley denied was really not “ matter ” but “ substance,” ! j
but this is a distinction too fine for the many-headed. Not Berkeley j j
alone, but all metaphysicians run counter to common notions. The in
moment we begin to penetrate beneath the surface, we find out that Hi
“ things are not what they seem;” and the only choice left us seems to l[j
be between putting up at the half-way house of Locke’s Idealism or m
going the whole length with Berkeley. Sx. George Stock.
spirit “spheres.”
Sir,—Will some of your readers kindly furnish me with a reference
to some inspirational account of the geography of the spheres ? Mrs.
Tappan, I remember, has treated the subject in some of her discourses
pubUshed in the Medium. St. George Stock.
[In A. J. Davis’s Stellar Key to the Summer Land, in Yol. II. of Crowell’s
Modern Spiritualism, and in Mrs. Hardinge’s Spiritualism in America, are
assertions (in some cases illustrated by diagrams) about the alleged spirit
spheres. They do not agree with each other, and are adapted to hard, mate¬
rialistic lines of thought.—Ed.]
THE “ MEDIUMS’ BOOK.”
Sir,—I see that Miss Blackwell’s last excellent translation from
Kardec, the Mediums' Book, is advertised in The Spiritualist, and I
find also, that, at page 251 of the translation, there are extracts from
a narrative I had the pleasure of sending Miss Blackwell, contained in
a note; but in this note, through an error of type, I am asserted to
have sat on the platform at one of Dr. Lynn’s entertainments, instead
of near the platform. Now, as those who have seen Dr. Lynn’s enter¬
tainments would know that he would not be likely to allow a perfect
stranger, as I was, to sit upon his platform, and since, in the case of
his having requested me to go there, I fear I should not have had the
courage to have complied, I think it well to mark the error, because
truth should always be seconded by the appearance of truth, and the
error will be inevitable in the early copies.
The Clergyman in Question.
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES.
Sir,—^Another of the weekly seances, with Mr. Eglinton as medium,
was held on Friday evening last, at the rooms of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, and was attended
by Mr. Terrell, Mr. Fitz-Gerald and Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.
Everitt, Mrs. Parrick, Rev. W. Newbould, Captain Rolleston, Mr. E.
Dawson Rogers, on behalf of the Seance Committee of the Association,
and myself. The medium having been secured in such a way as to
prevent the possibility of having the use of his hands or feet, was
placed at the entrance of the cabinet, and the curtains so drawn as
to conceal his head and body, while leaving his knees and legs in the
light. The seance then commenced. Materialised hands were formed,
and seen by all present, and other ordinary manifestations took place.
Joey and another spirit friend conversed with most of those present.
The medium, who has been suffering for some time from illness, and
who, at the commencement of the sitting, had only just arrived in London
after a long and fatiguing railway journey, was unfortunately soon ex¬
hausted, and the sSance was brought to an early close, but not before
those present were fully convinced of the genuineness of the mani¬
festations. H. With all.
MASKELYNE AND COOKE.
Sir,—Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke make two statements:—firstly,
that their cabinet resembles that of the Davenport Brothers; secondly,
that they have never been baffled by any knots whatever.
Permit me, as one of the witnesses chosen to sit on the platform last
Wednesday week, to contradict both these statements.
In the first place, nothing can be more unlike than the two cabinets.
RITUALIST.
I forbear entering into tedious points of carpentry detail, at the same
time I assert that the two were different in every essential point.
Secondly, Mr. Maskelyne, when I offered to tie him more meo,
according to a plan which I have thrice adopted with professional
“mediums,” and which contains a test only known to myself and
another person, objected to the knot, and insisted on his own rope being
tied “ strongly ” across the distal extremity of the ulna. I was not to
use any description of “bow” or “clove-hitch.” I never intended to
use a “ clove-hitch,” and cannot but be struck with the utter dissimilarity
of rope tying and tape tying. I do not claim to be an expert at either.
I may also state that Mr. Maskelyne’s feet were buckled by a strap to
the ground. The buckle had a very short tang, and was thoroughly
loose.
The conditions under which Mr. Maskelyne produced certain phe¬
nomena were dissimilar to those under which Mr. Eglinton, Mr.
Bullock, and Miss Lottie Fowler have been placed by me under “ test
conditions.” In fact, the whole affair was very unlike a seance, as I
have hitherto seen it. C. C, B.
ART MAGIC.
Sir,—Our Spiritualistic literature is becoming so saturated with
medieval absurdities, that it behoves every one who wishes, in the
midst of the rubble, to preserve the few grains of truth, to utter a protest
against what is false, and is a decadence into what is antiquated, and
what we had hoped the world had long outgrown.
If anything would tend to warn off earnest inquirers into the truths
of Spiritualism, surely the absurdities raked up from remote ages of
darkness and superstition, to be found in Art Magic, would be enough.
I have glanced through the book with sorrow, and grieve to think that
any one should have been at the pains to make so voluminous a record
of mediseval absurdities.
Spiritualism comes to us, as I think, to counteract the materialism of
the day, and, as I hope, to establish the link of something higher and
more glorious than it can pretend to do between this and the unseen
world. If this is to be done by demonology and the exploded pretences
of witchcraft, let us have done with it until a higher intelligence can be
brought to bear upon what may become sublime.
Scientific men and Christian people alike scoff enough at the new
light; what may we expect if old beliefs in stones, minerals, magnets,
and tomfooleries of all kinds, are brought to establish Spiritualistic
creeds? and at the same time blot out the Christ of the belief of 1,900
centuries, as well as
“ The Christ that is to be”?
Morell Theobald.
62, Granville-park, Blaokheath, 8th May, 1876.
REINCARNATION.
Sir,—At it again? In your issue of 12th instant, Baron Dirkinck-
Holmfeld expresses himself thus: “ Reincarnation is with the Zulus a
belief; they hold that unprogressed spirits are still bound to earthly
objects, or animals, a belief quite as crude as that of the Spiritists, but
less absurd.”
So, according to the Baron, it is more logical to think that a man
should become a beast or a thing, than be made a better man. For him
the law of progression is absurd, that of retrogression less so. After the
enunciation of these ideas, to hear him descant upon the crudeness of
the notions of reincarnationists is quite refreshing.
G. Damian,i.
Naples, 15th May, 1876.
EXTRAORDINARY LEVITATION OF SOLID OBJECTS IN THE LIGHT AT SOUTHSEA.
Sir,—We have just had a remarkable sitting with Mr. Eglinton,
round a very small table, in light sufficient to see one another, our
hands in view. Our circle was composed of three ladies, a clergyman,
and a medical gentleman. The direct voice of Joey, the spirit, spoke to
us, and a spectral hand was seen to take up a roll of paper and float it
about, touching one and another, and afterwards to take it out of the
circle, and let it fall on the dining-table. Then it was suddenly
snatched up, and lightly “ chastised ” us, startling us not a little, for it
was a strange sight to see an inanimate object behaving in such a way;
the medium’s hands were in full view on the table. The musical box
was levitated a little. The medium was next entranced, and carried by
invisible power over the table several times, the heels of his boots being
made to touch the head of our medical friend. Then he was taken to
the further end of the dining-room, and finally, after being tilted about
as a thing of no weight whatever, was deposited quietly in his chair.
It was a strange matter to witness, and made us fearful lest the power
should fail, and the medium fall. Other wonders took place, on which
our clerical friend purposes to report, so I need not do so. C.
Southsea, May 30th, 1876.
THE WEARING OF SILK BY MEDIUMS.
Sir,—Knowing you to be a good authority on such matters, I take the
liberty of asking your opinion on the statements contained in the last
two numbers of the Medium respecting silk as an insulator for mediums,
and the extract from Mrs. Tappan’s lecture (which, by the way, I could
never comprehend) that “ flannel is magnetic, and silk electric.” In no
text book do I find that flannel is magnetic, or a magnetic substance;
neither was I aware that we are electric machines requiring insulation .
Experiments have been tried to discover, with the help of the most
delicate instruments, whether or not electricity was evolved from the
human body in the normal or abnormal condition, and always with
negative results. Electricity has always been a favorite study of mien,
but as Spiritualism has certainly upset many old theories, I thought it
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 2,1876.
264
possible that the ideas advanced by Mrs. Tappan and others may be
correct, and that I should have to unlearn much of what I have learned.
J. F. Young.
Llanelly, South Wales.
[From the accounts published by Dr. Crowell in American journals, it
seems that he let the mediums know what results he expected when he
tried experiments with silk; thus, the preconceived ideas of the mediums
may have become embodied in the messages; again, tricky spirits—who
are plentiful in connection with physical manifestations—may have indulged
in their propensity for hoaxing. In this country we have noticed that the
spirits somewhat commonly object to physical mediums wearing silk dresses,
which tends to indicate the existence of some feeble electrical influence.
Delicate instruments have failed to detect any unusual electrical or magnetic
effects at seances, and it is a pity that mediums by the misuse of these two
words sometimes utter great rubbish.—Ed.]
THE TRANSFERENCE OF HEALING POWER.
Sir,—Will you oblige me by inserting the following in your next
week’s Spiritualist f
For two years I have been a great sufferer from that dread disease,
t( Blood poisoning,” causing the most painful diabetes and spleen, and
other sufferings, all said by the most skilful physicians to be incurable;
and, from the slight relief I have ever been able to obtain from any
source (the most powerful mesmerists included), I began quite to despair
of ever knowing rest from pain. I fortunately read of Dr. Monck’s
great cures, when I wrote him; and I, in gratitude for the relief he has
given me, and a hope that others may also in suffering try his wonderful
power, beg to say he has quite cured me of diabetes, and I have every
hope of a cure of the remaining painful disease, for I am so much
better. All has been done through his mesmerised flannel, without any
personal interview, and the instantaneous relief it gives even when
applied to the most painful ulcers is indeed wonderful. I trust that
this testimony may induce others to try this kind good friend in suffering.
Charlotte Anderson.
Sandown, Isle of Wight, May 26th.
SPIRITUALISM IN SOUTH LONDON.
Sir,—A meeting of the members and friends interested in the South
London Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism will be held at the
Nelson Coffee House, Charlotte-street, Blackfriars-road, on Thursday
evening next, June 9 th, at eight o’clock. J. Burton, Hon, Sec.
SPIRITUALISM IN DERBYSHIRE.
Sir,—On Sunday, the 28th, afternoon and evening, Mr. Johnson,
trance medium, of Hyde, delivered two trance addresses to large and
intelligent audiences at New Mills, Derbyshire. The addresses were of
a high order, and were listened to with great attention. These are the
first addresses which have been delivered in the place on Spiritualism,
and caused much excitement. After the close of the meetings, groups
of men might be seen in various places discussing with animated
gestures the phenomena they had witnessed of a man u talking wi’ his
een shut.”
After each service, various interesting questions were put and an¬
swered. In the evening especially an animated discussion took place
between the medium, in his normal state, and several of the audience,
on the reality and modus operandi of the controlling intelligence. It
was ultimately determined by a few of the more intelligent to open a
weekly circle for investigation, of whose labours we have the most
hopeful anticipations. All were agreed as to the high order of the con¬
trolling intelligence, both as to matter and manner. There was nothing
vague or unmeaning, but close, terse, and vigorous. Now bending for¬
ward with intense feeling depicted in every feature, he poured out a
perfect torrent of eloquent declamation against the creeds and dogmas
of the churches. Now calm, dignified, and erect, with deep, slow,
solemn utterance, he denounced the cold indifference and gross
materialism of the masses around. John Lithgow.
Hayfield, near Stockport.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—The following is an account of highly satisfactory materialisa¬
tion manifestations, witnessed by a select, harmonious circle of sitters,
including myself and Mrs. Regan, through the mediumship of that
truthful medium, Miss Lottie Fowler, at her rooms, 2, Vemon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, W.C., on Saturday evening last, the 27th inst.
All being arranged satisfactorily, we were just about taking our seats,
when we were all invited by the medium to search her bedroom, which
she uses as a cabinet on such occasions, and is entered by a door from
the seance room. Several gentlemen availed themselves of the invita¬
tion, and, after a thorough search and examination of the fastenings of
the same, to guard against anyone entering from without, they all ex¬
pressed themselves satisfied. The medium then drew the curtains,
seated herself in the cabinet, and we resumed our seats, at a distance of
some eight feet from the curtained entrance. The lights were lowered,
allowing sufficient for us to see the time quite plainly on looking at our
watches. We felt apprehensive of there being too much, owing to day¬
light still penetrating the window-blinds of the rooms at the time.
However, it did not prevent the materialising of the celestial visitors,
for one shortly appeared, in the shape of a man attired in long white
robe, with dark, short beard and moustache. He pulled the curtains
apart, emerged from the cabinet, and stood silently looking at us. Mrs.
Regan thought she knew the outline of the spirit’s features, and, on her
asking him if he was her dear brother William, who used to materialise
at Bastian and Taylor’s, he bowed thrice in the affirmative. He then
retired to the cabinet for a few moments, and reappeared, placing him¬
self against the jamb of the door, gazing earnestly at his sister and the
company for some time; after which he held the curtains apart, still
gazing at us; he then bowed, but did not speak, and instantly disap¬
peared.
A beautiful nun next appeared, who materialised strongly, and was a
well-developed, finely-formed woman! She took each of the sitters by the
hand and walked them about the circle, and then led them back to their
seats. She materialised a piece of blonde net, about two yards long and
a yard wide, before our eyes, and held it up as a screen before her. It cer¬
tainly was a spiritual treat to behold her. She gracefully bowed, and cor¬
dially thanked us, and bade us good night in a rich deep voice. The next
form to appear was Baron Hendrick, brother to Baron von Vay, greeting
us as usual in his deep German guttural voice, telling us that he liked the
harmony of the circle much, at the same time impressing us, that he
was determined to be consulted in future as to who should be admitted
to the seance, and that it was necessary for those wishing to be present
at the materialisations on Saturday evenings, to send in their names to
his medium, Miss Lottie Fowler, not later than Friday. He asked for
a cord to measure his chest, but one not being at hand, Captain James
handed his handkerchief, after measuring his own chest with it, to
Hendrick, who then measured his chest, which was about the same as
the captain’s, after which he asked for a pair of scissors, and cut a long
strip out of his outer garment, handing it to me with the scissors. Mr.
Wedgwood then asked him to show the hole, which he instantly did,
holding up the robe for our inspection, and showing us the long rent
therein; he then shook it out whole again, without removing it from our
eyes. After exchanging a few more words with us he retired, and bid us
good night. Now for the gratifying and most satisfactory manifestation
of all! Pinkey, the Indian girl, and spirit control of the circle, led
out the medium entranced—linked arm in arm—into the circle, and
allowed each of the sitters to shake hands with her and exchange a word
of greeting, which Pinkey graciously acknowledged in her well-known
voice, and subjected herself to keen scrutiny, but stood it well. She
wore a profusion of brilliants on her breast, and looked all an Indian.
On retiring, she left the medium entranced in a reclining position by
the entrance to the cabinet, until she awoke in our presence.
J. Regan.
37, Hart-street, Bloomsbury-square, W.C., May 29th, 1876.
I It will be seen by an advertisement on another page, that Mrs. Burke
has established in the neighbourhood of Bloomsbury a “ home ” or kind
of private hotel for Spiritualists visiting or living in London, an under¬
taking in which it is to be hoped she will meet with support.
Two or three new private spirit circles have been formed in Sun¬
derland, and they meet regularly. The medial little boy of Mr.
Petty, of Newcastle, has been present at one of them, and gave much
satisfaction, because of the physical manifestations obtained in his
presence in the light.
The Shakers.—The Isle of Wight Times says:—“ We are in¬
formed that the Ryde branch of * Shakers' (Hordle Community) is
rapidly increasing in numbers, and that at last Mr. Town Councillor
Henry Knight has received ‘ The Holy Spirit.’ We quote the words,
for though we cannot bring ourselves to believe that God manifests
Himself a la Shaker, we would avoid profanity or levity on such a
serious assertion. If what we further hear be true, the ratepayers
are to lose Mr. Knight’s services on their behalf, entirely, and the
Council Chamber in which things of this world are transacted will
see him no more. This means comparative peace in the Council, but
also that members will be free to do as they choose almost without check.
—Mr. Knight’s second son, a young man of good education and ability,
became a convert some time ago, and the little boys of another Union-
street tradesman, and several other inhabitants of Ryde, have since
joined. We hear that some of the meetings, held in a studio, and pro¬
longed to very late hours, have proved a nuisance to neighbours who de¬
sired bodily rest, but now we understand a house has been obtained, to
be transformed into a Shaker Synagogue, near Partland’s Hotel, Swan-
more.—Mr. C. Knight was escorting two female Shakers to Ryde a few
days ago, and one of these interesting creatures went ‘ in the Spirit ’ on
board the Mayflower, in which they embarked from Lymington, and
danced for about three-quarters of an hour to the great amusement of
the passengers.—The Shakers held a meeting at the Town Hall, Bourne¬
mouth, on Monday evening, when Mrs. Girling delivered a lecture to a
vast audience, and at its conclusion several of the community were
seized with their usual manifestations, and commenced dancing. This
was a signal for a general disturbance, a great number of the audi¬
ence rushing on to the platform, forms and chairs being broken, and
a general melee ensuing. One young lady continued to dance, crying
out loudly, ‘ Touch not the Lord’s anointed 1’ Happily, no one was
seriously hurt, but the community were evidently much frightened,
and at a late hour were escorted by a party of gentlemen, who
volunteered their protection, to their wagon and pair, which was waiting.
—By a later account we find that the riot was a fearful one, Mrs.
Girling and party being forcibly ejected from the hall, and damage being
done to property to the extent of £30. One of poor Mother Girling’s
legs was broken, and the police were summoned to protect the building
from the mob.—Just before going to press, we hear from a Ryde Shaker
that a letter from an authority was received here this morning, and that
no mention was therein made of Mrs. Girling’s leg.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
j<! D.—The reason why some spirits give themselves such great names,
l)| wholly unconfinned by the value of the accompanying messages, is a
j)i mystery. Unless such spirits give unquestionable proof of identity, or
!(| their messages are of value when judged on their own merits, we do not
■ i care to print the revelations, or to enter into controversy about them.
June 2, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
u&lism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News*
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not In any way connected with each
ether.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. fid.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. fid.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and condicions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—^"Experienced spirits state pro¬
portions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Fneumatology; Miracles
and Science; the Spirit; and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supematural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinioh that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made,by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
n this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote Iduring the whole
of his lift on earth, Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. 6d., ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. Os.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid. “
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance sneaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. Ss.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tnke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES <3F TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per VoL
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post,
fis. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. -James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . , . 15 0
The Physician.
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
.. II.
HI.
„ IV. „ . ,
a V „ . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the Pc
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . ,
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures . . : .
ople
7
7 «
7 6
7 «
7 0
7 8
3 6
7 0
6 0
7 6
2 0
3 8
7 6
7 0
6 0
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences, (Pub, at 7«. W.) 4s. j
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) , . . . . 24 o
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spibitualist Newspaper . . .20
Keys of the Creeds . . . . j . .50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 b
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms t(Noyes) . . . . 18 O
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A . 10 I
Awas-I-Hind); or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, byf James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . ' 12 0
Son, Remember:' an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10.6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS
Special edition for Schools . , , . 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR, HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Re
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard,
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
- Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE .OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says, of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
Is.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. PowelL Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE ? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock, 2s.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
if
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Kepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison,1 Spritiicdist News-
£aper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
ondon, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing'business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: Colby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &u., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. Ring. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
P R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and hisassistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occarring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about ammal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five. Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist
The religio-philosophical
JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modern Spiritualism. Established in 1865.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago;
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing. *
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience.
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just betn issued in, America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. Gd. each, post free 11s. Gd., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 5s.
IRELAND: UR OF THE CHALDEES.
London: Triibner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Reviewers’ Criticisms.
“ Irishmen ought to read this work and be proud. It is
crammed with learning which does credit to the research of
the writer.”—Christian Wmid.
“ The somewhat startling proposition contained in the title
of this work can hardly fail to interest a considerable number
of readers, and for those who may be inclined to take the work
in hand, we may briefly state that the line of argument pur¬
sued is intended to show that the Chaldeans, the Hebrews,
and the Celts are identical, the summary given at the close
being that ‘the Arphaxadite Chaldeans were the progenitors
of the Hebrew Chaldeans, and differ only in name from the
first Gaels.’ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amount of corrobora¬
tive evidence is adduced in support of them, the value of which
many will be glad to test”—Rock.
In Two Vols., 8vo. cloth, price 28s.
A PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE ON THE
XA_ NATURE AND CONSTITUTION OF MAN. By
George Harris, LL.D., F.S.A., Vice-President of the Psy¬
chological Society and of the Anthropological Institute, and
author of “The Theory of the Arts,” “Civilisation considered
as a Science,” &c. This work embraces a comprehensive and
complete survey of the nature and constitution of man
physical, moral, and intellectual, exhibiting moreover the
mutual connection and dependence of each branch. Topics
connected with the spiritual being, and the leading opinions
on this subject, including the nature, essence, propertits, and.
mode of operation, of the soul; the alliance between matter
and spirit; reason and instinct, their affinity and diversity
are here discussed; and a new theory is propounded of our
intellectual system, as also respecting the distribution, mode
of action, discipline, and cultivation of the mental faculties.
Eminent authorities on certain of the topics here embraced,
among them some distinguished writers on psychology, phy¬
siology] and natural history, have been in correspondence
with, and have been consulted by the author, by several of
whom notes of much interest and value, on different important
controverted points, have been contributed.
London: G. Bell & Soks, York-street, Covent-garden. 1876.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the' use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOOATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kardec. Translated by ANNA
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d,
Price Is. 0£d., post free.
Marriage law injustice. An ex¬
posure of the wrongs sanctioned by the present
Divorce Act, with suggested amendments. By Frederick A.
Binney.
 Manchester: Palmer and Howe, 3, Bond-street. 
Three copies post free for 6d.
The writings of emanuel Sweden¬
borg. DO THEY ENCOURAGE ADULTERY AND
ITS KINDRED VICES ? By Thomas Robinson.
Also other works by the same Author.
Address—H. Barlow and Son, Stationers, <fcc., Oldham-road,
Newtonheath, near Manchester.
THE HOME FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O .
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Home, on the principle of a private
Boarding House. It is conveniently located for the principal
railways, and is in the very area of the spiritual movement.
Its arrangements have been designed with a special view to
the requirements of Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance
Manager—Mrs. A. C. Burke.
June 2, 1876.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Esq., Rome, Italy.
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A., 60, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1; Hereford-square, South Kensington.
Charles Blackburn, Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-fields.
A. A. Watts, Esq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W
S. Chinnery, Esq., 142, Strand, London, W.O.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Enmore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, Gloucoster-gate, Regent’s-
park.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixon, Esq., M.D- 8 Great Ormond-street, W.C.
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C.
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, York-place, Portman-square.
John Lament, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 19, Leamington-road-villas, Westbourne-
park.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq., 4, Castledine-road, Anerly, S.E
W. J. Williams, Esq., Clarence Club, Waterloo-place, S.W.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Boston, U.S.A.
Subscriptions, which will be duly acknowledged, maybe
forwarded to the Hon. Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq , 1,
Hereford-square, South Kensington, S,W.; or to the Hon
Sec., A. Joy, Esq., 69, Great Russell-street, W.C.
The following sums have been already subsct'ibed:—
A Friend  *, £50 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq  50 0 0
A. V. H   30 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq  25 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq    25 0 0
William Tebb, Esq  25 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq  25 0 0
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq      20 0 0
O. v. Hoffmann ;  20 0 0
James Wason, Esq  20 0 0
Friends at St. Petersburg  1  19 7 6
Friends at Glasgow, per H. Nisbet, Esq  10 16 0
Thomas Grant, Esq    10 10 0
A Friend     10 10 0
Mrs. St. Claire    .- 10 0 0
W. J. Williams, Esq    10 0 0
Two Friends and Neighbours     10 0 0
W. C. Oopperthwaite, Esq      10 0 0
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq   ....!  10 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq  10 0 0
J. Ridley, Esq •••      10 0 0
Mrs. Hamilton      10 0 0
Mrs. Daun     10 0 0
T. J. Allman, Esq    10 0 0
Mrs. Hennings   .;  5 5 0
Mrs. Berry       5 5 0
J. Y. Vernon, Esq  5 5 0
W. H. Harrison, Esq    5 0 0
O. Townsend Hook, Esq  5 0 0
William Howitt, Esq  5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq .7  5 0 0
A. A. Watts, Esq  5 0 0
Mrs. Watts   5 0 0
Walter Weldon, Esq.   ;...,   5 0 0
P. G.       5 0 0
M. G. S   6 0 0
O. F. Varley, Esq.      5 0 0
J. H. D ....; 5 0 0
F. Griffin, Esq   5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart 5 0 0
J. S. Law, Esq.    5 0 0
Friend, per Mrs. Vernon   3 3 0
G. de Liagre      3 3 0
C. Pearson, Esq  3 3 0
Miss Clark   3 0 0
S. O. Hall, Esq ;...  2 2 0
John Marshall, Esq   ;  2 2 0
C. Stephens, Esq    2 2 0
Dr. R. Baikie   " 2 2 0
F       2 2 0
Rev. W. Whitear    2 2 0
Miss Whitear     2 2 0
Thomas Scott, Esq  2 2 0
D. G.'Fitzgerald, Esq ..;...  2 2 0
Miss Watts     2 2 0
T. Skinner, Esq., M.D  2 2 0
T. Shorter, Esq.    2 0 0
M. DeVeh      ] 2 0 0
John Lamont, Esq  2 0 0
C. McLean, Esq  2 0 0
Miss Douglas 2 0 0
R.B  110
D. H. W    110
A. Glendinning, Esq  110
W. Glynes, Esq    110
J. T. Peele, Esq      110
Dr. C. L. Robertson       l i o
Mrs. S. Dickson    110
Regnum     110
Friend, per T. Hayle, Esq  110
F. A. Binney, Esq        110
J. Gledstanes, Esq.    10 0
Mrs. M. Gregory   10 0
Dr. Hayle..      10 0
C. P. Carter, Esq.   ;    10 0
Mrs. Wiseman     10 0
Baronin v. Vay i     0 18 4
O. Parsons, Esq    0 10 6
O. O. G      0 10 0
D. S.V<  0 7 0
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allrn, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
