Registered as a Newspaper.
or
SN® joUS(N®i< o'^ f^YdSo^o^id^iK ^dii{K^s<-
&{j£ #Ihst llmspapr rxrjm^b' toxtlj S^xxrxtwalxsm xtx <&xmt §nfam.
iTH E “ SPIRITUALIST ” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 3x9, Kearney-street.
No. 230.—(VOL. X.—No. 3.) LONDON : FRIDA.Yj JANUARY 19j 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTonteMg.
Memorial of the National Association of SpiritualistsIn
the Matter of Henry Slade  i   25
The Reply from the Secretary of State to the National
Association of Spiritualists   27
The Attention of the Queen Invited to the Slade Prose¬
cution ...     ...   23
Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism. By C. Carter
Blake, Doc. Sci 28
Dr, Robert Chambers as a Spiritualist  29
Poetry:—“ Cold and Dead." By Florence{Marryat  30
Curious Manifestations through Dr. Slade’s Mediumship ... 30
The Prosecution of Dr. Slade by a Conservative Govern¬
ment     ... SO
The Polytechnic InstitutionPalmistry—A Talking Lion
—The Flight of Mercury—A Mock Seance—A Slade
Table ..,      31
The Testimonial to Andrew Jackson Davis:—List of Eng¬
lish Contributors  33
A Legend of the Seneca Indians... ...     33
The Cabala    ...   33
The Cremation of the Body of a Spiritualist...   34
Sunday Amusements      34
Conference of Spiritualists ... ... ; 35
Spiritualistic Ideas in Legal Phraseology 35
The Case of William Lawrence ...    35
Andrew Leighton    35
Dr. Carpenter’s Dried Peas   36
Paragraphs:—Dreaming to Some Purpose, 27; Marriage,
29; Silence, 31; Persecution of Mediums in California,
84; Spiritualism in Liverpool, 36; Conference in New-
castle-on-Tyne, 35; A Book by Madame Blavatsky ... 36
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson. F.G.S. ;1 Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr, George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent: (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Iskam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) : the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M- Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D , author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.8.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. ill. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles :(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the UnitedJKingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States,'4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great RusseU-street, London
W.O.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z,, B.LG.A.S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6jd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for January, 1877.
Wednesday, 3rd.—Soiree at 38, Great Russell Street, at
7 p.m. Music, Conversation and Refresh¬
ments. Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is.
Thursday, i.th.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, at 7.30. Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
Friday, —House and Offices Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
„ Conference Committee, at 7 p.m. \
„ Soiree Committee, at 7 p.m. j
„ Trance Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr. J. J. Morse,
medium. Tickets, Is. each.
Tuesday, 9tt.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting, at 6 80 p.m.
Thursday, VUh.—Mr, Blackburn’s Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
W. Eglinton, medium.
Friday, 12<A—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 15fA—Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
Friday, 19th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Thursday, 25<A.—Conference Committee, at 6 p.m. )
itoiree Committee at 6 p.m. jT
„ Seance Committee at 7 p.m.
The present series of Mr.-BIackburn’s. Seances being closed
on the 11th of this month, a course of private Seances will be
arranged for Members only, if a sufficient number should send
in their names to the Secretary. It is desirable that each
Member subscribe for a course of not less than three Seanoes.
Tickets, 2s. 6d. each.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
A GENERAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
WILL BE HELD IN LONDON, AT
38, GREAT RUSSELL, STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
On the 7th, 8th, and 9th of February, 1877.
The following subjects are offered as suggestions for papers,
but essays on kindred subjects will also be received :—
1. The Best Tests of the Genuineness of Physical Phenomena.
2. The Scientific Aspects of Spiritualism.
3. Has Spiritualism given any New Truths to the World?
4. The Evidences of the Identity of Communicating Spirits.
5. The Relation of the Law to Public Mediums.
6. The Aims, Ends, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
7. The Best Means of Directing Attention to the Importance
of the Private Investigation of Spiritualism.
8. Spiritualism as a Religious Influence.
All papers to be sent to the Secretary, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, not later than January 20th, 1877; the
papers to remain the property of the Association, subject to
the conditions laid down in rule 37.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seanee, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c,, apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
EIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSOROFT, Manager.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. , Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists,
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Cov/ncil and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr, Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blvton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
acts affecting Spiritualism; to ofier facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The fosf Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus¬
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege, of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
formation of circles and conduct oiseances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on appheation to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
Dalston association of inquirers
INTO SPIRITUALISM.—Notice is hereby given that
the THIRTEENTH HALF-YEARLY GENERAL MEETING
will be holden at the Associations’ ROOMS, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, London, E._, on THURSDAY, the 25th day of
January next, at 8 o’clock in the evening precisely, to consider
the Report of the Council and Statement of Accounts for the
Half-year ending the 31st December, 1876, to elect officers for
the current half-year, and to discuss such motions of which
notice in writing shall have been forwarded to the under¬
signed on or before date of such meeting.
HENRY D. JENOKEN, M.R.I., President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Hon. Sec. and Treasurer.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
18th January, 1877.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
MISS TREHERNE (MRS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
To the Cuckoo, 6d.
JOHN URIOH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien's
Song, 4s. Guinevere's Song, 4s. Mary's Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyma
Book—Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6d.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for t\e
benefit of Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute AXL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 19, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(.Established* 1873.)
President.
Alexander Gaidar, Esq., 1, Hereford-s'<aua'.re, West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Preside) its.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbu.ry, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.,l», Cambrldge-street,, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-str. set, Grosvenor-square, W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, ErsHIne-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S..W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-L;aw, Goldsmith-build^
ings.E.C. ,
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portlajid1-place, W.
Kogers, E. D , Kose-villa, Church-end, Fineh.ley,N.W
Smith, Martin B., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas H ouse, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W,
Wason. .Tames, Wason’s-lmildings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-plaoe, Hyde-park, W.Z
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., NewM 'andsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.l V.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on- -Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Kichmond Hi Hl>
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gato, S.W.
Colley, Bev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsei i, Portsmouth.
Cook, Kenimrale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Itichmc'nd Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Kichmond-hill.
Orosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, R.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Beading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, K , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, DesmondG., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd,North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Bochdale.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester. .
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-creseent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivhney, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent's-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
r jad, S E.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park/Blackheaih, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W*
White, J., Hemlock-hoUse, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H: M.A., LL.M., PosteRestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs,, Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq,, Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Mr. J. H. Andre.
Auditors.
Mr, H. Cook. I
Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Ills Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Llndesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. WIttig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany."'
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634, Race-street,Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, CUnton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes.Esq., 5,Rue de la Teakasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2, Rue de Rocrbi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels. .
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte cfe Bullet, Hotel de I’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan,Esq., 80,Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London jN.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake.City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Strati!, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 68, Ncwlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Proohaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2®, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—h.1 Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Galle de Ainedb, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—IAt. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—"Site. James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lament, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
sooial intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit oom-
munion.
July, 1876.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Oolby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D, etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to. have a permanent interest.
London; Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, mabshall & Co.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It,
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for'
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise,
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. "Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tayistook-square, W.C.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o'clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual a.t those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
TR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 lo 6 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
”R. DE CAUX, Mesmeric Healer, and
Medical Galvinist, attends upon patients at their own
residence, or at his rooms—85, Alfred-street, Bedford-square,
London, W.O.
‘RS. KANE AT HOME Tuesdays, Thurs-
  days, and Saturdays from three to five o’clock.—34
Guildford-street, Russell-square, London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday an
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MR. FRANK HERNE, medium, at home on
Sundays, for Spiritualists only, at 8 o’clock. Attends
at the house of investigators. Address, 3, Rockmead-road,
South Hackney, Victoria-park, near the French Hospital.
Seances for Healing and Trance Mediumship on Thursdays, at
3 and 8,
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, .may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, dose to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &o. Address, “Spiritualist,” 18, Atlingwortb-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. a. C. Burke
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
WHICH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin: Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. O. O. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr." A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.O.E.; Mr. G. C. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Slade.—2Jd„ post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.C. Price Id.; post free for l&d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Republished from The Spiritualist for- July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI-
lO CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C,; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.; F. J. Theobald, |
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
■p EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JL\» logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme. 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Momgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department, -
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
Jt lj[®pc«jir tl xtf nnb xS tpjtitji(unH$m>
VojLUJVIE Tej^. KuMber Thf^ee.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 19th, 1877.
MEMORIAL OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
IN THE MATTER OP HENRY SLADE.
To the Right Honourable R. A. Cross, Secretary of State for the Home
Department,
This Memorial of the Council of the British National
Association of Spiritualists respectfully represents that
one Henry Slade, a citizen of the United States of America,
temporarily residing in this country, was on the 1st day
of November, 1876, convicted by a Metropolitan Police
Magistrate of an offence under the 4th Section of the
Vagrant Act, 5 Geo. 4, c. 83, and sentenced to imprison¬
ment with hard labour for three months, against which
conviction he has appealed to the Middlesex Quarter
Sessions.
That your Memorialists are informed and believe that
you have instructed the Solicitor to the Treasury to under¬
take the case for the Prosecution of the said Henry Slade
on the hearing of his said Appeal.
That your Memorialists desire respectfully but most
strongly to remonstrate against such Prosecution at your
instance, on the grounds of justice and public policy here¬
inafter set forth.
1. The particular acts charged against the Defendant,
even if they amount to an offence cognisable by law, are
of a trivial and insignificant character, not calling for the
intervention of a public prosecutor, or for the expenditure
of public money to procure his conviction and punishment.
The suggestion of the Prosecutor, 'a Fellow of the Boyal
Society, is that on the occasion of two visits by him to the
Defendant, the latter wrote on a slate under a table, which
writing he pretended to the Prosecutor was produced by a
spirit. No money was on either occasion prepaid, or de¬
manded in advance, but on the first occasion the Prosecutor,
at his departure, asked what was the charge, and volun¬
tarily paid the sum named by the Defendant’s agent, in
the full persuasion that what he had witnessed was a trick.
Therefore, even if the alleged facts were true and would
sustain the conviction, they would not amount to the com¬
mon offence of obtaining money by false pretences.
Such being the case, your Memorialists cannot but con¬
clude that the adoption of the Prosecution by the Govern¬
ment is founded upon the assumption that the Defendant
is habitually guilty of fraudulent and deceitful practices,
and that the end proposed is rather to suppress a system
of imposition than to punish a single and small delin¬
quency.
Apart from the contention of your Memorialists that the
Defendant was improperly convicted, they call your atten¬
tion to the fact that so far from the inference of habitual
imposition being sustained by the evidence at the Police
Court, the Prosecutor ventured to call one only of the five
other persons whom, in his Information, he had charged
the Defendant with attempting to deceive, and that that
one gave evidence favourable, on the whole, to the De¬
fendant. Of the others, one (Dr. W. B. Carpenter, F.B.S.)
had publicly declared that the facts he had witnessed in
the presence of the Defendant were of such a character
that he proposed a further investigation of them at his
own house, and had arranged that the Defendant should
visit him for that purpose. The rest were gentlemen of
education and attainments who had frequently investigated
the facts with the Defendant, and who could consequently
have given most important testimony, if the Prosecutor
had thought fit to call them, after naming them without
their authority, and contrary, it is believed, to their wish,
in his Information against the Defendant. Of the other
witnesses called by the Prosecutor upon a charge of con¬
spiracy against the Defendant, one, who had had consider-
ij able experience of the Defendant, gave emphatic testimony
j on his behalf, while not a single witness professed to have
I detected trickery. Furthermore, the Defendant called four
| witnesses of character, intelligence, and social position,
j whose evidence, while it was dismissed from consideration
| as irrelevant to the issue, was declared by the Magistrate
i to be “ overwhelming,” and who deposed to facts inconsis-
] tent with any suggested or conceivable hypothesis of im-
! posture, and especially inconsistent with the suggestions of
j one John Nevil Maskelyne, a professional conjurer, who
| had been allowed to give evidence with the view of so ex-
| plaining the facts. And other witnesses were prepared to
i give similar evidence on behalf of the Defendant, but the
j Defendant was not allowed to call them.
Other evidence of habitual trickery might have been
| afforded by the table in use by the Defendant, but the
| attempt of the Prosecution to show that it was specially
| constructed and adapted for purposes of trickery utterly
| and signally failed, and in fact the said table was pro-
| duced in Court by the Defendant as his evidence. More-
f over it can be proved that the Defendant has frequently
I obtained the phenomena, alleged to be fraudulently pro-
| duced, in private houses, with tables, slates, and pencils
| which he had never seen or handled before; and that both
I previously to the construction of his own table, and since
j the same has been impounded, such phenomena had and
| have been, and are being, obtained with equal facility by
I the Defendant; and that the evidence in his favour has
I greatly accumulated during the time which has elapsed
j since his conviction.
Nor should mention be omitted of the fact that for twelve
j years the Defendant has pursued his calling as a Medium
| in the United States, and as such had there acquired great
I reputation and notoriety, admitting to his seances persons
I the most prejudiced against him and against the phe-
I nomena, and who would have been most ready to prosecute
j him under the laws of that country if any offence could
| have been proved against him. Yet this is the first occasion
| on which he has been molested by process of law. Further,
| he was selected by the Theosophical Society of New York,
I after having submitted to the most stringent tests by that
| body, in pursuance of a request by certain distinguished
j persons in Russia, to visit St. Petersburg, as the Medium
| most capable of affording facilities of investigation to a
Committee of the Imperial University of that city. It was
! in consequence of that arrangement that the Defendant
| visited London, being on his way to St. Petersburg, whither
! he was about shortly to proceed when he was detained by
| these proceedings.
The above facts are brought to your notice as showing
that the inference of habitual imposition on the part of the
Defendant (and which is not put in issue by the Prosecu¬
tion) not cnly does not arise from anything that has
hitherto appeared, but has already been sufficiently re¬
butted, and would be conclusively disproved, if the Defen¬
dant’s evidence could be legally received and considered.
Under these circumstances your Memorialists apprehend
that a prosecution by the Government will imply the
further assumption that the facts alleged on behalf of the
Defendant are in themselves incredible, and such as no
amount or quality of evidence will suffice to establish.
Your Memorialists call attention to the extreme gravity
of such an assumption being made the foundation of
criminal proceedings undertaken by the Government.
The facts thus peremptorily discredited have been attested
in every age, and they can only be rejected as impossible
on grounds equally fatal to the credibility of others which
every denomination of Christians, and the Established
Church in particular, profess to believe.
26
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 19, 1877.
Tlie phenomena termed Spiritualistic have been long,
and are now being, investigated by educated and truthful
observers in nearly every civilised country of the world,
while the believers in them may be reckoned by millions,
of whom many thousands are Her Majesty’s subjects.
These and similar psychological phenomena are not con¬
fined to professional mediums, but occur in large numbers
of {private families in Great Britain and elsewhere. The
systematic observation and study of them have given rise
to a variety of Associations; and the literature of the
subject includes several hundred volumes, and about
twenty periodicals, of which several have been established
for many years. The contributors to this literature in¬
clude authors of proved ability and distinction, while the
reality of some or other of the objective phenomena has
been attested by many persons eminent in science,
literature, and social position, among whom may be enu¬
merated the late Archbishop Whately; the late Professor De
Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society of London;
the late Napoleon III.; the Emperor of Germany; the
Emperor of Russia; the late Dr. Robert Chambers; Lord
Lindsay; Mr. A. R. Wallace, President of the Biological
Section of the British Association for the Advancement of
Science ; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the Quar¬
terly Journal of Science ; the late Lord Brougham ; Mr. C.
F. Yarley, F.R.S., C.E.; Captain R. F. Burton; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A., Editor of the Art Journal; Prince Emile de
Sayn Wittgenstein; Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.; the Hon.
Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor; His
Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia, Duke of Leuch-
tenberg; Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Dr. Lockhart
Robertson, one of Her Majesty’s Commissioners in Lunacy;
the Hon. Robert Dale Owen, formerly American Minister
at the Court of Naples; the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; also a large
number of Members of the various learned Societies of
London.
The Dialectical Society of London, when under the
Presidency of Sir John Lubbock in 1869, appointed a
Committee to investigate the phenomena of Spiritualism; .
after two years’ investigation with non-professional Me¬
diums, the Committee issued a voluminous Report pub¬
lished by Messrs. Longmans, which among other things
certified:—
1. “That sounds of a very varied character, apparently pro¬
ceeding from articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room
—the vibrations accompanying which sounds are often distinctly
perceptible to the touch—occur, without being produced by
muscular action or mechanical contrivance.
2. “ That movements of heavy bodies take place without me¬
chanical contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of
muscular force by those present, and frequently without contact
or connection with any person.
3. “ That these sounds and movements often occur at the time
and in the manner asked for by persons present, and, by means of
a simple code of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent
communications. ”
Your Memorialists submit that for the Government to
treat this great and widespread movement as a delusion,
founded upon the tricks and false pretences of impostors,
is to insult opinions which are intimately associated with
religious belief, to prejudge and obstruct scientific inquiry,
to violate the principle of toleration, and to exceed the
recognised limits of executive functions in modern times
ana in this country.
Your Memorialists beg to adduce here an illustrative
and strictly parallel case. About thirty years ago, when
painless operations were first performed in this country on
patients in the mesmeric trance, the phenomenon of in¬
sensibility so produced was generalty discredited by medical
and scientific men, and was imputed to imposture and
delusion, just as the phenomena which occur in the presence
of mediums are now attempted to be explained. It was
opposed to what was then believed to be the course of
nature. But in a few years the facts became so multiplied
that they could no longer be denied, and the performance
of such operations was authorised in the public hospitals
of Calcutta. More than 800 painless operations, “some
of them tremendous in their magnitude, duration, and
]\ severity,” were performed under the superintendence of Dr.
M Esdaile, who was appointed one of the Presidency .surgeons
i by Lord Dalhousie, then Governor-General of India, “in
(| acknowledgment of the services he had rendered to
)! humanity.”'*
11 This example is the more important and suggestive he¬
el cause those who have most closely investigated the subject
11 believe that the phenomena of mesmerism and those pre-
|| sentedbythe persons called mediums are closely related,
(| and must be considered in connection with each other in
)j order to be properly understood. And just as any legal in-
\ terference with the earlier manifestations of mesmeric
? trance in this country, by those who honestly believed in
) the theory of imposture, would have checked or prevented
| its beneficent application to the relief of human suffering
| —so, we now most respectfully urge, any straining of the
) law to bar inquiry into the little-understood phenomena
\ called “ Spiritual,” whether by encouraging appeals to the
Criminal Law on behalf of the theory of imposture, or by
shutting out the evidence of those who have made this
<j class of phenomena their special study, on the ground of
| “opposition to the known laws of nature,” will be an un-
11 called for interference with that freedom of inquiry which
| is the glory of our age and country, and is the source of all
| healthy national progress.
| 2. Your Memorialists allege that no tribunal, without
\ | experience, or the evidence of experts in the observation of
! the phenomena which the Defendant is charged with simu-
j lating, is competent to decide upon the inferences to be
|| justly drawn from the facts deposed to by the witnesses for
j the Prosecution.
11 That the conviction of the Defendant by the Police
11 Magistrate was chiefly owing to the peculiar character of
'j the case before him, to his want of experience in the
11 observation of the phenomena and of the conditions of
11 their occurrence, and to the rejection by him of evidence
I which would have placed the allegations of the Prosecution
j in a different light.
|| That if the rejection of such evidence is upheld on the
' | trial of the Appeal, a grave injustice will be done to the
! | Defendant.
II That the said Magistrate expressly based his decision
jl upon inferences to be drawn from the evidence of the
11 Prosecution, “ according to the known course of nature; ”
11 and your Memorialists submit that if that test is to be
j applied to phenomena involving facts of Nature unknown
j to those administering justice, it would be quite unneces-
I sary to adduce any evidence whatever against the Defen-
| dant beyond the mere fact of the phenomena occurring.
II According to that test the whole case is prejudged, and the
11 examination of witnesses to prove any particular act of
! imposture is a superfluous mockery and pretence.
j 3. Your Memorialists represent that misconceptions,
I similar to those of which they complain in this case,
| occur in the early observations of all investigators of the
| phenomena called Spiritualistic; and that the risk arising
| from them, should this Prosecution be persevered in and be
| successful, is likely to deter other Mediums from submitting
! to public investigation ; and that this result is clearly con-
)! templated, and is intended to be brought about by means
I of this Prosecution, which therefore originates in prejudice
| and in the desire to obstruct inquiry. Your Memorialists
j are unable to suppose that you would advisedly lend the
j authority of your office to a proceeding undertaken with
j such an object, but they would also point out that if this
j end, which they cannot but recognise, is not attained, the
i futility of this proceeding will be evinced; and that if by
! merely abstaining from expressing any opinion respecting
i the cause of these phenomena, Mediums can legally exhibit
j them, people will continue to resort to them as heretofore
j with a full, though tacit, understanding of the problems
j involved, and that thus the supposed public mischiefs
j attending the investigation of this subject will remain
j unabated.
I Nevertheless, your Memorialists strongly deprecate and
! protest against the encouragement held out by this Prose-
| cution to persons ignorant of the facts and prejudiced
(j * Letter from Lord Dalhousie, in the Mornivg Chronicle, August 14th, 1856.
against them, or who may be actuated only by a desire to !
obtain reputation and notoriety as the opponents of super- j
stition, and the exposers of fraud, to hinder investigation, !
and to molest those with whom alone investigation can fbe j
conducted. It would be impossible within the fitting limits j
of this Memorial to expose the utter crudity and fallacy of [
the judgments of inexperienced observers; but it may be j
said, generally, that such persons are as incompetent to form ' ]
a j ust conclusion respecting any doubtful facts of this nature j
which they may witness, as would be an uninformed intruder j
on the domain of any of the special sciences to decide upon I
the value and significance of a delicate experiment. i
4. Your Memorialists further suggest that whether the j
4th section of the Vagrant Act is or is not legally applicable j
to the charge against the Defendant, its policy was not to |
create a new offence, but only to provide a summary juris- j
diction over cases in which money has been obtained by j
false pretences from weak, ignorant, and superstitious per- |
sons of the poorer classes. 1
That it has not been and cannot be shown that any |
money has ever been so obtained by the Defendant, but on |
the contrary, the persons resorting to him either have |J
been attracted by motives of curiosity, or have gone for !j
purposes of investigation. That such persons have been i
entirely uninfluenced by the professions of the Defendant |]
in forming their opinion. That the Defendant has never |J
solicited persons to resort to him, or made any public re- i
presentation, by advertisement or otherwise, of his alleged \\
powers. That the persons who have paid money to him
for seances do not belong to a class needing exceptional j
protection by the law.
5. Your Memorialists call attention to the fact that the |
Defendant is a foreigner recently arrived in this country, j
and urge that since he has not been guilty of an offence |
which would subject him to a prosecution for obtaining |
money by false pretences, under a law common to all j
countries, he ought not to be prosecuted by the Govern- j
ment under a law peculiar to this country, and which had |
never before been applied to a similar case.
6. It is believed that one ground of interference on your |
part is, that the Prosecutor is alleged to be discharging I
a public duty, and in so doing finds himself confronted j
with a coalition. In answer to this your Memorialists j
submit that a man who endeavours to consign another to j
prison, on the strength of most imperfect experience, I
which the prolonged experiments of many equally capable j
scientific observers refute and contradict, has rashly under- j
taken a burden from which he should not be relieved at |
the public cost.
7‘ Furthermore, your Memorialists submit that this j
Prosecution, of which in its every aspect they complain, j
is the outcome of uninstructed prejudice against new truth.
They beg to remind you that the same prejudice operated
in the case of Galileo, and that the same reluctance to !
receive new facts would, if entertained, have deprived us of !
most of the inventions of modern science.
For these reasons, and on the grounds above stated, viz.: j
1. That the Prosecution ife dictated by considerations and |
founded upon assumptions which are not put in issue by it, I
which cannot be sustained by proof, and which are contrary !
to fact and to evidence ; that it insults opinion, impedes |
inquiry, and is justly offensive to large numbers of Her j
Majesty’s subjects;
2. That it involves questions not proper for the decision |
of a Court of Law, and can succeed only by the rejection j
of evidence which ought in justice to be received and j
Weighed;
3. That it will encourage future Prosecutions on insuffi- |
cient grounds by persons ignorant of and prejudiced j
against the facts, and will subject a scientific inquiry to j
vexatious and unwarrantable interference ; or that, if this I
result is averted, it will be so by the adoption of precau- j;
tions which will evince the futility of this proceeding for j
its real end and purpose;
4. That it is an abuse of the Criminal Law;
5. That it was a rash and ill-advised proceeding under- j1
taken by the Prosecutor without consultation with the j!
persons whom he attempted to make indirectly parties to t
it by naming them in his Information, and contrary to 51
their wishes and judgment, and that he ought not to be
relieved from the consequences of his own acts at the
public expense;
6. That it is the result of prejudice against truth, and an
illiberal attempt to suppress investigation;
Your Memorialists respectfully urge the withdrawal of
State aid from the prosecution of the Defendant, and lest
they have omitted to state any argument, or have im¬
perfectly put forward any, and in case you should desire
for further information on any point, they will appoint a
Deputation, which shall have the honour of waiting upon
you, should you think proper to receive it.
The Council from which this Memorial comes was elected
by Ballot, and consists of a president, thirteen vice-presi¬
dents, fifty-five ordinary members, and sixty honorary and
corresponding members, residing in various parts of the
globe; and the National Association of Spiritualists is
working in alliance with the Liverpool Psychological
Society, the Brixton Psychological Society, the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, the Cardiff
Spiritual Society, L’Union Spirite et Magnetique (Brussels),
the Spiriter-Forscher Society (Hungary), the Sociedad
Espiritista Espahola (Madrid), and the Sociedad Espirita
Central de la Bepublica Mexicana (Mexico). The names
and addresses of the Members of the Council are sent
herewith, and also a copy of the Kesolutions unanimously
passed at a Special Meeting of the Council, and on which
this Memorial is framed.
Signed by authority and on behalf of the Council,
Alexander Calder,
President of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
Offices of the National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell Street. London. W.C.
January, 1877.
THE REPLY FROM THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO THE
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the National Association
of Spiritualists, has favoured us with a copy of iftie following letter
for publication:—
Whitehall, 15th Jan., 1877:
Madam,—I am directed by Mr. Secretary Cross to acknowledge
the receipt of your letter of the 11th inst., forwarding a Memorial
from the British National Association of Spiritualists with regard
to the case of Henry Slade, and in reply to state that Mr. Cross
finds that this person was convicted summarily by a Metropolitan
Police Magistrate of an offence under the Vagrant Act, and
sentenced by him to three months’ imprisonment, and that against
that conviction Slade has appealed to the Middlesex Quarter
Sessions.
Mr. Cross would point out that it is the practice in cases of
appeal against the decisions of the Metropolitan Police Magistrates
for the Solicitor of the Treasury to act on behalf of the respondents,
who would otherwise be unrepresented before the Court of Appeal,
and he can see no reason for altering such practice. .
He must also decline to receive a Deputation on a question
arising out of a criminal case still in progress, it being an invariable
rule in this Department that, while written applications always
receive the best attention and consideration of the Secretary of
State, personal applications in criminal matters are not received
by him, and as long as a case is under the consideration of the
legal tribunals of the country he never interferes,
I am to add, in conclusion, that the proceedings in this case
before the Magistrates were not initiated or conducted under any
order or direction of the Secretary of State, neither did the
Solicitor of the Treasury in any way interfere in the case in its
progress through the Court below.—I am, Madar&, your obedient
servant, A. F. 0. Liddell.
Mias Kislingbury.  
Dreaming to some Purpose.—Mrs. Allen, of Calaveras, Cal., lives on
the stage road between Railroad Flat and West Point, and she dreams
strange dreams. On October 24th her house was entered by a robber
during her absence, and her watch and pocket-book were stolen. That
night she saw in her dream a thief enter her house, take the watch and
pocket-book, and follow the trail up the river. In the morning she
whistled for her dog, mounted her horse, and followed the trail up
stream. A ride of a mile brought her to an abandoned quartz mill, and
in the ruins she discovered the man she had seen in her dream. She
accused him of the theft, but he stoutly denied having committed it.
Dismounting, and arming herself with a stout club, she coolly informed
him that she knew he had the watch and money. She let loose the dog.
upon him, and dealt him a blow upon the head which felled him to (lie
ground. She found her watch and wallet in his boots. Mrs. Aikn, o£
Calaveras, then went home.—Banner of Light.
Jan. 19, 1871
THE SPIRITUALIST.
27
Jan. 19, 1877.
28
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE ATTENTION OF THE QUEEN INVITED TO THE
SLADE PROSECUTION.
British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., Jan. 13, 1877.
TO HER MOST GRACIOUS MAJESTY QUEEN VICTORIA. '
Madam,—I hope your Majesty will pardon the liberty I
take in addressing you, and in submitting for your Majesty’s
perusal the enclosed copy of a memorial which has been
addressed to the Home Secretary by the British National
Association of Spiritualists, setting forth the objections to
a prosecution, by the Government, of Dr. Slade, a spirit-
medium from the United States, whose genuine power has
been attested more abundantly than that of any other
person of his class. In the hope that your Majesty will
sympathise with his position and with that of a large
portion of your Majesty’s subjects, I have the honour to
remain your Majesty’s most obedient, humble servant,
Emily Kislingbury.
Buckingham Palace, Jan. 14th, 1877.
Lieut.-General Sir T. M. Biddulph is directed to ac¬
knowledge Miss Kislingbury’s letter to the Queen, with
printed papers, and a memorial to the Secretary of State
relating to an appeal coming on before a court of law.
Her Majesty never interferes in any way with legal pro¬
ceedings of the courts of justice.
ANCIENT THOUGHT AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM. *
BY C. CARTER BLAKE, DOC. SCI.
I presume that all present are acquainted with the existing
phases of the science. My object is to call your attention to
the numerous facts which indicate that the ancients not only
saw more, but understood and knew more, of what is called
Spiritualism, than ourselves at the present day. This might
have been expected, on the analogy that, Spiritualism being
an undeveloped science, moving on towards exactness, must
follow the track of evolution common to other sciences. The
geologist knows that however great and original were the
generalisations of Lyell, by which the causal order which has
operated in the production of life on the globe has been ascer¬
tained, they were anticipated in detail by Empedocles, and this
dhcovery, which is due to Schvarcz Gyula, has saved, even in
the minds of the unthinking, the reproach being uttered against
the ancients, that they neglected the study of evidence under
their eyes, and left to the “dregs of earth-history” the task
of, for the first time, unravelling the conditions of nature.
We see that much which has been thought to be new and
true, has been ascertained to be both old and erroneous ; and
the material progress of the world during the last few hun¬
dred years has not been found incompatible with the fact
that we are often more obtuse and less virtuous than our
ancestors. It is these facts which lead us to see what, for
example, the ancient Greeks would have thought, had they
been present at any of our modern seances; whether their
knowledge of the ordinary laws of nature would have been
so far inferior, to our own as to lead them to show any sur¬
prise at the occurrence of abnormal or peculiar events. I shall
try to show that nearly all the higher facts of Spiritualism
are mere repetitions of the conceptions of intellectual men in
past generations, and that little worthy the name has been
discovered during the last few years which was not known
and used as a subject of meditation by philosophers of every
shade of opinion; and we must remember that the old
religion "was one whose character has been well accredited
in the words—“ Omnes DU gentium dcemonia.^
The objects which are searched for now through the inter¬
vention of “mediums,” were identical with those whose
effigies hung over the hearths, or decorated the altars.
The Epicurean philosophy was the first to throw some
light on the phenomena of Spiritualism. The theory of the
Epicurean philosophy was essentially that of Democritus.
The atoms of which the universe is formed are constantly
throwing off some of their parts, aTroppoai, and those in
contact with the senses produce sensation, aiadruns. But
Epicurus, as Mr. G. H. Lewes has well pointed out, did not
maintain that these airoppoai were images of the atoms; he
* Road at a mooting of the National Association of Spiritualists last
Monday night.
believed them to have a certain resemblance to their atoms,
but was unable to point out where and in how far this
resemblance exists. Every sensation (e.y., that which an
observer outside the cabinet feels of the grasp of a “ spirit
hand ”) must be true as a sensation; and, as such, it can
neither be proved nor contradicted; it is dAoyo?. The faculty of
recollecting the various sensations, or of conception, 'jrpoXeyJn^,
leads to the formation of general ideas, and it is in these
general ideas that error may reside; e.g., a sensation may
be perfectly true, and represent the occurrence of an objec¬
tive entity, but the general idea that such sensation is
referable to any particular cause, may be false.
I take as the next familiar example (b.c. 400), Socrates
and his dasmon. I shall not waste time on the detail of
how this “ control ” manifested itself to Socrates. We have
it chiefly in his own apology before his judges. He was
| accused by Meletus and Anytus of corrupting the youth of
Athens by philosophical paradoxes, and of introducing new
gods, or of denying all gods. In answer he spoke as follows,
and his words bear some relation to those which we may
imagine used by the counsel for the defendant in an appeal
case under the Vagrancy Act before the Archons of Athens
(b.c. 400). * If you should say to me, 0 Socrates, we will
not believe Anytus. We will let you off; but with
this condition, that you no longer go on with this question¬
ing and philosophising, and if you should be caught again
doing this, you shall die. If,” says Socrates, “ you should
acquit me on these conditions, I should say to you, 0 men of
Athens, I reverence you, and I love you, but I shall obey
God rather than you. As long as I breathe and am able, I
shall not cease to philosophise. Moreover, I say, 0
Athenians, whether you believe Anytus or not, and whether
you let me go or not, I shall never do anything else, even
though I wTere‘ to die many times.” And Socrates goes on to
say, “A voice is present with me, a certain agent of God,
somewhat divine (haipioviov) which indeed Meletus has cari¬
catured, and put into the indictment. Now this began with
me from my childhood; a certain voice which always when
it comes turns me aside from that which I am about to do,
but never impels me to do anything.” Socrates was, as we
all know, condemned. The charge against him that he had
introduced new gods, erepa tcatva Satgovia, evidently referred
to his Daemon. Plutarch, who if a daily newspaper had
existed in his day, would undoubtedly have been sent like
Ovid to Tomi to look for Bulgarian atrocities, absolutely
supposed this Daemon to be a personal being. He wrote a
book “ De Genio Socratis” on the familiar spirit of Socrates.
Apuleius, who had less credulity, and more comic humour,
wrote “ De Deo Socratis” the God of Socrates. The
Neoplatonists, and some Christian Fathers, understood this
Daemonion to be a personal being or genius ; whether good
or bad they did not determine. Xenophon says, “ It was in
the mouths of men that Socrates declared that the Deity or
Daemonion (to haigoviov) made things known to him, or
gave him signs by which to know him,” but Xenophon care¬
fully distinguishes between the Daemon of Socrates, which he
calls to haufiovLoV) and the gods whom he calls tod? deovs,
and nothing in Xenophon, as Cardinal Manning has well
pointed out, can be found which invests the Daemonion with
personality, or with any other character than that of a Divine
influence or agency, or a counsel or direction of the gods
acting upon the reason of man. Plato, both in the Euthy-
demus, the Phoedrus, the Theaetetus, and the Republic, has
passages which speak of the Daemonion as something divine,
an agency, or voice, not as an agent, or a person. Conscience,
then the voice of God, acted to Socrates as man’s supreme
rule of right. And to some persons, as those from whom
Plutarch gathered his story, there may have been impressed in
their minds the idea of concrete existence of the good spirit.
As it has been well said, “ a man is lucky if mental pain has
never come upon him with a substance, and a volume as
forcible as if it were bodily.*
Modern Spiritualists may be ranged between the two stand
points of the Epicurean and the Socratic philosophy. If we take
the “control” which is found to produce certain physical effects
apart from the body of the “ medium ” which moves objects,
strikes matches, lifts chairs, or writes on slates, the Epicurean
* Newman Apologia pro vita tSua, Appendix p. 39.
Jan. 19, 187?.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
29
would say that such results were produced by forces emanat- [ )|
ing from inside the body of the medium; and if the Epicurean I v
philosophy were pushed to its legitimate extent, he would | j|
further infer that a diminution of the substance of the body | )j
of the medium took place while these events were being |||
transacted. But those who accept the theory of a “ control ” j jj
or “ daemon ” would, like Socrates, be led to the conclusion |)|
that all these circumstances were produced by a separate m
agency, which most call “ spirit.” Such are the two philo- iji
sophical poles. Between them I am incompetent to judge ; jjj
(i Varius Sucronensis ait, JEmilius Scaurus negat; utri creditis, I j j
quirites? ” The whole question of what is the intelligence, \\\
on which Mr. 0. C. Massey’s philosophical queries have j)
already thrown so much light, will be solved just as the ||;
answerer’s bias may incline him towards one or the other jjj
philosophical system. It is a fact that as all men are either jjj
Nominalists or Realists, Aristotelians or Pyrrhonians, so all jjj
Spiritualists are (or, at least, ought to be) either Epicureans jji
or Socrateans. The mixture of the two philosophies has jjj
only led to the hopeless confusion with which our adversaries Is
upbraid us. Let us, therefore, carefully investigate the jjj
metaphysical grounds of our belief, which does not, and jjj
by necessity cannot, rest on mere observations of fact j j
alone, before we promulgate any system. There is so much jjl
in our studies akin to those of the good old Greek philo- j j
sophers, to render us not to be ashamed to be, individually, j j
like— j j
u A pagan suckled in a creed outworn.” j j i
The nineteenth century is not that which has observed the j j
genesis of new, nor the completion of old, methods of thought, j j
If our speculations have any value, they must be pursued j j
in relation to the thoughts of the great men who have pre- j j
ceded us in the world’s life-history ; and if not, they should j j
be left to the universal solvency of time, undisgraced by the j
approbation of modern materialists. j j
DR. ROBERT CHAMBERS AS A SPIRITUALIST.
From the “ Spiritual Magazine."' (j
In The Spiritualist, a short time ago, Miss Jane Douglas j j
endeavoured to clear the character of Dr. Chambers from j I
some doubts as to whether he were really a Spiritualist, or j
being so, he was candid enough to avow clearly his belief, j
Such doubts were entertained during his lifetime. I have j j
seen it positively asserted in the newspapers that he never
believed in Spiritualism, and once, during a sharp con- j j
troversy in the Morning Star, a gentleman declared that jjl
he had Dr. Chambers’ own denial from a mutual friend, j j
I contradicted this assertion at once on my own know- j j
ledge. It was a fact that Dr. Chambers was a genuine
Spiritualist, but did not make this fact much known jj
publicly. In private life and amongst Spiritualists he i j
avowed his convictions without scruple; but as he did not
use the same explicitness in public, it gave to his conduct jj
an air of something like weakness or cowardice. The j j
reason, however, was very different; it was simply a ; j
prudent regard for the interest of others. He was, as was I J
well known, a partner with his brothers, William and j j
David, so long as David lived, and afterwards with j
William, and he has frequently said to me, “So far j j
as I am concerned I would freely avow my convictions j j
in this case, but I feel that I have no right to compromise, j j
as I assuredly should do, the interests of my brothers and j j
all connected with them and us.” The feeling was most j j
honourable and just. And Dr. Chambers preferred to be j j
under some stigma of duplicity or want of courage, rather j j
than do injury to others. Yet he was not unwilling to j j
make sacrifices for his faith. He told us that he had spent j j
much labour in the composition of a work which should j I
carry out farther his ideas in the track of the Vestiges of j j
Creation, but on coming to a knowledge of the real facts of j j
Spiritualism, he resolved to destroy this work, as based on j|!
a false and mischievous principle. The work, he said, had j j
cost him years of labour and severe thought, and he could jjj
not resolve to annihilate it but after a sharp struggle and jjj
many tears. Truth, however—strong, unquestionable, jj
demonstrative truth—demanded it, and it was done. All j
honour to the memory of one of the most kindly and genial; j j
as well as wise, learned, and industrious of men. 11
During the time that Robert Dale Owen was in London
collecting materials for his Footfalls, he came frequently up
to a house at Highgate to converse on the subject, to report
progress, and to read different chapters as they were written.
Dr. Chambers often accompanied him, and always spoke and
acted as one who Was perfectly settled in the spiritual
knowledge and atmosphere. Miss Douglas seems to regret
much that she did not accept some MSS. of a work which
he was actually engaged upon in illustration and confirma¬
tion of Spiritualism. On this point I do not think there
is much to regret. Dr. Chambers, it is true, had become
anxious to do something to advance that which he now
had discovered to be the truth, and that in direct opposi¬
tion to his former labours, which had been undertaken
when he lived and worked under different impressions, but
he had not advanced so far in his composition as to give
his manuscript that value which it would assuredly have
assumed under his able research and clear judgment. No
doubt, as she suggests, he began to feel the internal warn¬
ings of a nearly finished life, and abandoned the idea of a
work to which he intended without question to devote
much intellectual labour. The MSS., therefore, which he
had prepared were still crude and fragmentary. These he
offered to me with the expressed wish that I would con¬
tinue to work on the plan which he had proposed to him¬
self. These papers were for a considerable time in my
hands, but they were but as the carted material of a very
small part of the brick and stone necessary to the erection
of the proposed fabric.
In no case could I work up any man’s material without
full acknowledgment of it, and the drift of Dr. Chambers’
projected work was one not exactly falling in with my own
plans. I therefore returned them when read, and told him
that, as Mr, Dale Owen was engaged on these subjects,
probably the MSS. might be useful to him, and that I
would recommend him to present them to him; and in his
hands I dare say they are. I do not, however, recollect
any traces of their use in Mr. Owen’s subsequent writings,
and probably he found them too crude and fragmentary
for any purpose of his own.
It would have been a great and real benefit to Spirit¬
ualism had Dr. Chambers become aware of the great truth
of Spiritualism before his long and severe illness in London,
and when his powers were in the full vigour of their exer¬
cise. We should then, no doubt, have had a production
from his pen marked by his vigorous reason, clear logical
acumen, and indefatigable industry—a work which would
have become a standard of no trivial authority. As this,
however, was not granted to him by Providence, in addi¬
tion to his other valuable labours, it is a duty which his
friends and contemporaries, who knew his real opinions
on this question, and the real motives of his conduct, to
clear away the little dubious haze of uncertainty which his
particular position left hovering about him. To those who
knew him, whether as a Spiritualist or not, it is needless to
say that there never lived a more sterling, honourable,
generous or kindly character. Whether as a matter of
general inquiry into the subject which had come to interest
him so deeply, or as in preparation for his intended work
on it, Dr. Chambers had collected a considerable quantity
of curious works connected with it, ^ and with the occult
sciences, which he freely put at my service when I was
writing my History of the Supernatural, and I recollect
with pleasure the most cordial and commendatory letter
which I received from him on his first perusal of it,
describing the thorough absorption and delight with which
he had gone through it. This letter itself would be ample
proof of the honest, fervid, and thorough conviction of
Dr. Chambers of the truth of Spiritualism, and not only
so, but of his profound satisfaction in it.
William Howitt.
Mas. Noswoethy, who has done such valuable public work in con*
nection with Spiritualism in Liverpool, expects to be in London in a
few days’ time.
Marriage.—On the 11th inst., at St. Giles’ Church, by the Rev. H.
G. Guy, Cromwell Fleetwood Yarley, F.R.S., M.I.C.E., Electrician and
Civil Engineer, to Eleanor Jessie, daughter of the late Captain Charles
Smith, of Forres, Scotland. No cards.
30
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 19, 1877,
“COLD AND DEAD.” Ij
By Florence Marryat. | \ j
Cold and dead, dead and cold, ; r ir
Bury them in mem’ry’s mould, ij;
Sweetest looks their story telling | j.j
In a language ever new; ij!
Tend’rest thoughts from the heart welling ! |
In fond words that sounded true.
Bright things that have passed away— j j
Strew their grave with flowers to-day. . Hi
Dead and cold, cold and dead, ' j(j
All the sweetness gone and fled; ij j
Is it dead, or is it sleeping, j j
Frozen ’neath a bed of snow ? ! i
Love, that I to-day am weeping, Wi
Is it gone, or yet to go? ' ijj
Why attempt to raise the veil j j
Earth will never tell the tale. j j
Cold and dead, dead and cold,
Vanished as a history told; j j
But when life is spent and over, HI
Will it live and bloom above ? j j j
Shall we meet again oh! lover j / j
Will you give me back your love ? |jj
Thoughts of Heaven were all complete, j j
If they held no hope more sweet! j j!
CURIOUS MANIFESTATIONS THROUGH DR. SLADE’S
MEDIUMSHIP.
Of late the manifestations have been plentiful on occa¬
sions when Dr. Slade has paid short visits to his friends.
Wherever he dines, in fact, such strong raps come from the
table as to visibly jar every article upon it, whilst the table
itself occasionally moves about, and in one or two instances
has risen from the floor. Last Sunday, while at luncheon,
at two o’clock in the day, at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s,
21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, Dr. Slade sat at one
side of the round table, whilst a yard behind the sitters on
the opposite side were some spoons and forks upon a side
table. Nobody was sitting at this side table; Mrs. Gregory
was nearest to it, and the spoons and forks just mentioned
were about a yard behind her back. Suddenly Dr. Slade
and Mrs. Wiseman (of Orme-square, Bayswater) exclaimed
at the same moment that something had been lifted from j
among the forks on the side table, and while they were j
giving the information a fork fell with a clang underneath j
the centre of the round , luncheon table. It must have j
passed between two of those seated at the latter table in j
its passage underneath. Dr. Slade was about three yards j
from the place whence the fork came, in broad daylight, j
with Dr. Allman, F.R.S., and Mrs. Gregory sitting between j
him and the said fork. Dr. George Wyld and Mr. Harrison j
were also present.
About an hour later, when the friends already men- j
tioned were in the drawing-room, Dr. Slade was playing j
with the Chinese hand-screen, when he remarked that j
raps were coming upon the paper of the screen. These j
raps were then heard, and carefully listened to by several j
of those present in succession, when Dr. Slade placed the j
fan five or six inches from their ears, and while he was j
holding it by its wooden handle without moving his fingers, j
Next he held a plain, thin sheet of paper—about twelve j
inches long by nine broad—by one of its corners, and j
while the piece of paper thus hung in the air, raps came j(
upon it, and the strongest of them could be heard about i
two feet off. Mr. Harrison suggested that his fingers |!
should not touch the sheet of paper, but that a pin should j1
be run through one corner of it, and the point of the pin j<
held by Dr. Slade, whilst the head of the pin kept the jj
paper from falling to the ground. This was done; and jj
while Dr. Slade thus held the point of the pin, without /jj
moving his fingers in the slightest degree, raps came upon j{
the paper as before, in broad daylight, close by the win- jj
dow, and while critical observers were close round him jj
within from one to two feet of the paper from which the j
raps came. Among the observers, in addition to those |
already mentioned, was Sir William Fairfax.
Later on Dr. Allman held the point of the pin in the
same manner by two fingers, and by bringing the third
finger down upon the edge of the pin, like a hammer, pro¬
duced rapping noises which were conveyed to the paper.
The difference between the two experiments was that Dr.
Slade did not move his fingers at all, and confined his touch
as nearly as possible to the point of the pin.
THE PROSECUTION OF DR. SLADE BY A CONSERVATIVE
GOVERNMENT.
In another column will be found a courteous letter from
the Home Secretary, the general drift of which is that the
Treasury has done nothing unusual in the prosecution of
Dr. Slade, and that no reason is seen for departing in his
case from the ordinary practice. Accepting the explana¬
tion in the same candid manner in which it is given, there
is great cause for congratulation that the British Govern¬
ment has not committed itself to the staining of its
historical honour by taking any special action to secure
the punishment of a man who, like a second Galileo, has
succeeded in establishing the reality of previously unknown
but most important facts of nature in the minds of all
critical and educated persons who have made careful and
repeated observation thereof.
The somewhat meagre and perhaps incomplete legal in¬
formation which we have recently gained—for science
when dragged into police courts is out of its proper element
—is to the effect that the Treasury always takes action
when appeals are made against the decisions of stipendiary
magistrates, but it allows only small costs, the person
fighting against the appeal paying the balance of costs if
he goes to large expense in retaining many or celebrated
counsel.
Although this real point at issue is not settled by the
“ letter” of the communication from the Treasury, it is by
the “ spirit” thereof, it being impossible to conceive that
English gentlemen, whose word is their bond, and who are
patterns of honour, should have anything to do with a
communication implying that they had but pursued the
ordinary course in the Slade case, whereas in reality they
had committed British taxpayers to an extraordinary ex¬
penditure at law of many hundreds of pounds, and had
given special and unusual instructions to their legal re¬
presentatives.
No question with which the general public have any con¬
cern is involved in the case. A Fellow of the Royal Society
alleges that Dr. Slade cheated or tried to cheat him out of
a sovereign by a conjuring trick. He first attempted to
prove his case in The Times newspaper. The result of the
free discussion in that journal was that he was soundly
beaten, in consequence of his experiences being so much at
variance with those of many responsible people who had
given more time and attention to the facts. The whole of
this Times correspondence was reprinted in The Spiritualist
of Sept. 29th, 1876. Foiled in the paper war, he rushed
to the police-court, and there came off better, because Mr.
Flowers decided the whole case upon his evidence and that
of his solitary witness, excluding from consideration testi¬
mony which demonstrated beyond doubt that strange
phenomena take place in Dr. Slade’s presence, inexplicable
by any conceivable theory of imposture. Such evidence
from responsible and highly-intellectual people could have
been multiplied to any extent, as references to the certifi¬
cates printed in this journal during the last six months
will prove, although they are but a tithe of those available.
It being already in sworn evidence that Dr. Slade is not a
habitual impostor, the only point to be attempted to be
decided by the non-technical legal tribunal at Clerkenwell,
is the private grievance of the prosecutor, and with that
the nation has no concern.
Of course the multitude, full of prejudices against a new
truth, will assume, not only that the question whether Dr.
Slade is a habitual impostor has been tried, but the whole
of the claims of modern Spiritualism. Abuse from the
populace, and the bad science of all kinds from the news¬
papers, may be passed by in silence, but that an English
Government should have any hand in egging on a
31
Jan. 19, 1877. THE SPIBITUAlilST.
howling mob, or in misguiding men by false issues, or
should have anything to do with a disingenuous official
document is happily inconceivable. Further, those
patient students who have been quietly observing and
tabulating the magnificent range of phenomena within
their province, without using the machinery at their com¬
mand for political or aggressive purposes, may well look
to an exclusive Legislature for protection from the assaults
of ignorance. Therefore the letter of the Home Secretary,
to the effect that the Treasury has not departed from its
usual practice in the Slade case, may be accepted with
contentment by the thousands of experienced people whose
opinions have not been influenced one jot or one tittle by
Professor Lankester’s amateur experiment.
Mr. Flowers said from the bench that he was very glad
that his conviction of Dr. Slade had been appealed against;
but if at the appeal everything should be again settled
upon the assertions of Messrs. Lankester and Donkin, if
the overwhelming and absolute proof that Dr. Slade is not
a habitual impostor is shut out, and if a hearing is refused
to the evidence of experts to show whether or not the pro¬
secutor’s supposed crucial test is nothing but a blunder,
founded on complete ignorance of a new scientific subject,
the sentence of Mr. Flowers will be confirmed. ■ The result,
we should imagine, would be a serious, a deeply earnest
requisition from Spiritualists all over the country for Dr.
Slade’s immediate and unconditional release, and some of
the grounds for such a request are well set forth in the
memorial sent to the Home Office last Friday by the
National Association of Spiritualists. There are points in
that memorial to which we think the American Minister in
London should give attention. He should couple with the
said points the circumstance that overwhelming abuse from
newspapers and from jugglers has been showered, in addi¬
tion, upon an American citizen, temporarily visiting our
hospitable shores for the honourable purpose of presenting to
us some of the rarest and most interesting phenomena the
world has ever seen, with the exception of those witnessed
in the days of Belshazzar, which the Established Church
of England forbids her sons to disbelieve at their peril.
Directly Dr. Slade arrived he sent written invitations to
the editors of the London morning papers to witness the
facts and to publish the results. He also invited Dr. Car¬
penter to a free seance, and agreed to give him another in
his (Dr. Carpenter’s) own house, without any of his (Dr.
Slade’s) slates, pencils, or tables, but this arrangement was
interfered with by Professor Lankester’s attempt—after
being defeated in The Times controversy—to get Dr. Slade
locked up in prison.
Mr. Flowers told the court that he had known many
cases which began with a great deal of noise, but which
passed off very quietly, and our opinion is that as nobody
can depose that he has paid a farthing to Dr. Slade whilst
under a false impression as to the facts he had witnessed,
that the common sense of the nation will assert itself, and
perhaps some social if not national atonement made to a
stranger guest for having been made a violently-abused
“ enormous gooseberry ” of the last dead season. Although
there is intense feeling on the subject amongst Spiritualists
and the will to do very desperate things, we set up as a
kind of Zadkiel and predict that common sense will gain
the day, that Professor Lankester will not silence a
scientific opponent by success in locking him up in prison,
and that a Government professing to represent high cul¬
ture will not give solid reasons for disaffection of a very
bitter character, because founded both upon religious belief
and scientific knowledge.
Silence.—The idea you have once spoken, if it even were an idea,
is no longer yours; it is gone from you, so much life and virtue is gone,
and the vital circulations of yourself and your destiny and activity are
henceforth deprived of it. If you could not get it spoken, if you could still
constrain it into silence, so much the richer are you. Better keep your
idea while you can ; let it still circulate in your blood, and there
fructify ; inarticulately inciting you to good activities ; giving to your
whole spiritual life a ruddier health. "When the time does come for
speaking it, you will speak it all the more concisely, the more expressly,
appropriately; and if such a time should never come, have you not
already acted it, and uttered it as no words can ? Think of this, my
young friend; for there is nothing truer, nothing more forgotten in
these shabby, gold-laced days.—Carlyle.
j j THE POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTION.
| | The following is a report of some of the incidents of the
I I performance at the Polytechnic Institution last Saturday
! I night:—
ijj PALMISTRY—A TALKING- LION.
| j | The entertainment began with some conjuring performances by Mr.
I | Matthews, who, in the course of his tricks, said he would show the
| ] observers some u palmistry,” upon which he proceeded to apparently
! j take a large egg out of a thin candle. As palmistry means “ telling
| (I fortunes by the lines of the hand,” and the meaning of the word
ji “palmistry” is one of the vital points in the Slade case, because the
! | prosecution is trying to separate the meaning of the word from “ fortune-
| i | telling,” it will be noticed how the conjuror at the Polytechnic is mis-
|| guiding the public.
I i His chief conjuring trick was the exhibition of what he called “ The
11! Talking Lion,” in which the head of a lion, standing upon an apparently
| | empty box, becomes animated, moves about, and indulges in growling
|J| conversation. There is a man or boy inside the box, with his head
j | inside the head of the lion. When Mr. Matthews shows the inside of
II i the box to the observers, they do not see the back of the box, as they
i | fancy they do, but the sides of the box reflected, so as to appear like the
| j back. The two looking-glasses by which this effect is produced reach
III from the back edges of the box and meet near its centre, between the
| 1 lighted candles in the box. The body of the performer is behind these
i j candles, concealed by the two looking-glasses, which stand in a diagonal
| | position. It is Professor Pepper’s old trick of “Proteus,” reproduced in
||| a more clumsy and cheap form,
i i THE FLIGHT OF MERCURY.
i In a subsequent performance in the great hall, a ball, about a yard
i | in'diameter, travelled for several yards up and down a fixed wire: some-
i | times the ball moved fast, sometimes slow, according to the instructions
M of the showman. On the top of this globe was an unhappy-looking little
| I girl, dressed in tawdry finery, as Mercury. She stood in an attitude on
| i the top of the globe as it went up and down. The problem was to
| | discover what motive-power caused this large ball, with the juvenile
i | performer on it, to travel up and down the wire. Examination of the
| | wire shows that it is not smooth, but rough and bright, as if it had
I I been bitten by some iron instrument from top to bottom. The trick
|||': might be done by placing a small boy inside the globe, who, by turning
| | multiplying gear, causes small grooved iron wheels to revolve
II while they tightly bite the wire, thus causing the whole apparatus
||| to travel up or down at will. Framework at the bottom of the wire
| I prevents half of the ball from being seen when the ball sinks to its
| final .state of rest, and the performer at the top then gives a twist with
her foot to something upon which she is standing ; probably this twist
unfastens the lower half of the ball which is out of sight, thus releasing
both it and the hidden performer. It is quite possible to do the same
trick in another way, namely, by driving the multiplying gear by means
of stored-up power inside the ball, and regulating the dissemination of
the power by commutators under the control of the feet of the little
girl who acts the part of Mercury.
A MOCK SEANCE.
In another performance Professor Gardner exhibited a mock spiritual
| seance in the large theatre of the Polytechnic. Last Saturday night
! about half the people in the stalls consisted of rough and noisy boys
I and girls, who behaved something like the people in the gallery of a
theatre on boxing-night; the stalls—which are the best seats at the
Polytechnic—were so over-crowded that many in them had to stand up.
There are two sets of stalls, one above the other. Before the entertain¬
ment began last Saturday, an assistant looked down from the upper
stalls, where the noise was also deafening, and sang out to the keeper of
the lower stalls, “ Where’s the p’leeceman ?” The assistant below
I replied, “I don’t know. ’Enery! bring me down some chairs, will
yer?” By the time Professor Gardner began his lecture the hubbub
had calmed down.
Professor Gardner said that about twenty years ago there lived in
Gray’s Inn-road an old woman and her niece, who bore the reputation of
being spiritual mediums. They did not live in a pretentious way, but
dwelt in almost a hovel or kitchen, and there they showed table-tiltings,
knockings, bell-ringings, and so on, and it was said that these things
I occurred without any machinery or apparatus, the only thing necessary
| being a table. Why was the table necessary ? He had arranged one
somewhat in the same fashion, but before he went further he would tell
j them some of the “ conditions.” In the first place he would show them
| a spiritual table. [Here he produced a peculiar-looking table, such as
j we have never seen at any spiritual seance, and at which the audience
j laughed immoderately.] The spirits, he continued, were partial to fun;
[ | they liked fine weather and pleasant company; further they had a
II partiality for the society of ladies, especially for those who were hyste-
i| rical, and who were so fond of wonders that if the medium said, “Do
II you see a spirit light on your elbow?” they at once saw three
11 or four without any difficulty. (Laughter.) And the spirits
11 liked darkness; before critical people they turned sulky and
11 would not manifest. Then it was necessary to form a circle. In
I j the days of old people formed circles with skulls and bones when they
II wished to perform incantations, but in these days the circle was
|| formed by placing hands round a table, and if any of. his listeners
|| tried it, they would be astonished to find what great control of a
5; table they could obtain while their hands were flat on the top of it,
|! and without exhibiting any visible muscular force. He himself had
I attempted to gain information about Spiritualism, but the spirits were
|| unfavourably inclined to him, and the medium told him that he was
| not an impressible individual. A few weeks ago he sat for an hour
^ and three-quarters with others, waiting for spirits when he had im-
32
THE SPIRITUALISE
Jan. 19, 187t.
portant business to attend to. They sat in the dark; he was next to the
medium, and he placed his feet on the floor and tried to lift the table
with his knees; he used his utmost force, but could not move it, it was
fixed to the floor. He pushed it, and it moved a little, then came back
again, upon which a lady said—“ The spirits are moving it.” . He
(Professor Gardner) then made taps on it. A lady said that somebody
had touched her. He wished anything had touched him, for if it had
he would have touched in return, and held on. He kept his feet going
round under the table, and presently he missed his companion the
medium ; he could not find his legs; afterwards he came back. Then
he (Professor Gardner) missed him again, and kicked out, and the
medium was “ over there.” The medium said—“ I wish you would
keep your hands on the table, and your seat on your chair,” upon’
which he (Professor Gardner) replied—“Don’t dictate to me, sir.
Keep your own hands on the table, and your seat on the chair.”
(Applause.) The spirits were sulky, and would not manifest that
evening. The lecturer next explained how an swers to questions were given
by raps, and on calling over the alphabet, the name “ Ally Sloper ” was
spelt out by raps upon the table. He then introduced two gaunt-
looking persons—apparently odd men of the Institution dressed up in
women’s clothes—who sat down to a table, and made it run about and rise
in the air; they had big sleeves, and apparently hooked the table under¬
neath by means of something fixed round their wrists. Professor Gardner
then proceeded to candidly acknowledge that all mankind had spiritual
and material belongings. He added that of their material conditions
they knew much, but of their spiritual conditions little, and that there
was some truth in mesmerism and cataleptic states. It was not true
that people could read with their stomachs, as some mesmerists asserted.
If spirits came to dark seances, and had to do with slate-writings, bell-
ringings, table-knockings, and so on, what were they worth ? Had they
ever made any discovery of a gold mine, or revealed the existence of a
koh-i-noor? They had not done so, therefore there was no call to
respect them. Once at a spirit circle a friend of his asked “ Who was
Washington’s mother ? ” and the spirits replied, “TheDook of Wel¬
lington.” (Laughter.)
A Voice: I say, old feller, who was Wellington’s mother ?
A SLADE TABLE.
This being what Mr. Flowers would call “an irrelevant question,”
Professor Gardner heeded it not, but continued that he had attempted
to get Dr. Slade’s table, but the authorities at the police-court would
not give it up to him, therefore he had had one made exactly like it.
When this table was used for seances, it generally had one flap down
and the other up, and the medium usually sat with his legs under the
flap ; the visitors sat against the framework. They would notice that
underneath, instead of the usual two brackets, a bar pulled out, and if
not so very useful for supporting the table, it could be manipulated with
the fingers very nicely. Then there was a wedge. This formed a
hammer, very convenient for table-rapping; it was very simple, but
very useful. Then the slate could be pushed between the bar and the
flap of the table, and while so held the hand was free to write upon
it. All this might be of no use for Slade-writing, but it did for slate¬
writing.
Professor Gardner then put the table on one side, and proceeded to
exhibit other tricks. Knockings came upon a bell suspended in the
middle of the audience ; they were produced by electro-magnetic
apparatus. Noises were also produced inside a drum in the same way.
A variety of commonplace conjuring tricks was then exhibited, after
which he produced a tin case, which he submitted to the inspection of
people from the audience, who detected no trickery about it. A man
was locked up in this tin case, and thecase was surrounded by curtains,
after which various things were done inside the curtains showing that
the man was outside the case; when the curtains were opened the man
was not to be seen, and the tin case upon being taken down and unlocked
was found to be empty. This feat could have been done by means of
a trick padlock, or by trick fastenings to which a good padlock was
attached, or by one of the assistants unfastening the padlock while
wrapping the curtains round the tin case. Of course the man could
then get out of the case through the door, the case being no longer
fastened. Although the floor of the theatre was covered with green
baize over most of the space whereon the curtains stood-, there were bare
boards at the back of the curtains, consequently the performer, after
going through various tricks inside the curtains, and fastening the tin
case from the outside, could easily get away altogether through one of
the trap-doors which abound in that particular platform. The dis¬
believers on the stage should insist on sitting close behind the curtains
while this trick is being performed, and should take care that the whole
arrangement stands on green baize, with no access to bare boards.
The Polytechnic has seen better days. There was a
time when people could go to it to receive scientific infor¬
mation of a somewhat high order, but
“ Those days have gone, Floranthe.”
At the present time comic songs and the tricks of mounte¬
banks are the chief attractions at the Polytechnic Insti¬
tution.
Now for a few remarks about Professor Gardner’s lecture.
He said that he went to a seance where the table was fixed
to the floor. We have never known a case of a table being
fixed to the floor at any public or private sitting. But Pro¬
fessor Gardner added that he gave it a push and it moved.
How could it move if it was fixed to the floor ?
Then he said that he was placed next to the medium, we
suppose in accordance with the usual custom at spirit
!j circles of placing the most sceptical person in that position,
[i It is usually a position of trust, a position where the man
11 pledges his honour to attend to certain conditions, the
I chief condition being that he shall hold the hand of the
[i medium all through the seance by way of guarantee to the
II rest of the company that the medium does not leave his
[j place, or use the hand on that side. If at any such circle
[| with which we are acquainted, the sitter released the hand
| of the medium, and the medium moved from his place,
[j that sitter would be considered to be a person who aided
'I and abetted the medium in any subsequent tricks, as a
| man whose word of honour was worthless, and whose moral
;! standard differed altogether from that of the rest of the
I company among whom he was sitting. Professor Gardner
| did not inform the audience whether he did or did not give
1 such a guarantee; we assume that he did not.
Professor Gardner says that he made taps—that is to
j say, that when he was among persons who were engaged
j in a serious inquiry, he deceived them. The lecturer did
| not say whether after making taps and pushing the table,
j he undeceived the sincere inquirers by saying who the
j person was who had played these tricks.
When Professor Gardner, speaking for himself, made
| the remark, “ Of spiritual things we know little,” every-
| body present might well have responded,, “ Amen.”
The lecturer asked what the spirits were worth, as they
| had never made the discovery of a gold mine or of a koh-
j i-noor. If the gates of the eternal world were suddenly
1| rolled open to Professor Gardner—if the mystery of the
; | ages as to man’s eternal destiny were thus solved—if the
j sting were taken from death and the victory from the
| grave—if the bright land of the hereafter were suddenly
j revealed to his gaze—would this Polytechnic conjuror
I stretch out his wretched hands to the bright beings before
I him, and say, “ Tell me where I can get gold. Give me
j a koh-i-noor!” If spirits came back on such a mission,
I well might they be despised. They should rather return
| to abolish everything in the shape of diamonds and gold
j from the face of the earth, thereby removing the lowest of
j its idols, the most fruitful sources of crime, of unhappi-
| ness, and of sin. After having done this, they might turn
| to the suppliant and tell him that, as a teacher of the
people, it is his duty to feed them with truth, and that if
he passes his life in telling them “ that which is not,”
upon his own head rests the responsibility; also that in
that spiritual world in which he will some day appear, the
fruits of every wrong act will have to be slowly and
patiently atoned by years of pain and suffering, possibly
by returning to darkness and to earth, and patiently at¬
tempting at spirit circles to show some objective pheno¬
mena to Polytechnic jugglers.
Now as to the Slade table
(1) Professor Gardner said that it was generally used
with one flap down.
It is never used with one flap down.
(2) Professor Gardner said that the medium usually sits
against the flaps with his legs under one of them.
Dr. Slade never sits at the flap side of the table; he always
sits' sideways against the frame of the tables
(3) . Professor Gardner said that the Wedge was very
handy for the making of raps.
The man who made the table swore in Court that he put
the wedge there ivithout any instructions, and in order to re¬
pair the effects of a mistake he had made in the construction
of the table.
(4) . Professor Gardner pointed out that by forcing up
the flap of the table a slate might be wedged between the
bar and the flap above, and that then a liberated hand
could write upon the slate.
By forcing up the flap of any such table a slate can
usually be stuck between a bracket, and the flap. For writing
to come upon a slate while so held, it must be done upon the
under side of the slate, and with Dr. Slade the writing in¬
variably comes between the slate and the flap of the table be¬
cause there is that partial darkness there which facilitates the
production of the writing.
That most of these things are as we have stated, Professor
Lankester can bear witness, and with this knowledge in
his heart, it ought to be extremely painful to him to see
Jan. 19, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
33
his cause advocated in such a way as this, and to see un¬
founded prejudice wantonly and unprovokedly implanted
in the mind of uninformed public audiences, against an
American stranger in danger of being locked up in prison.
Professor Lankester might remove some of the vast
amount of ill-feeling he has raised, and support his asserted
love of truth, by expressing his personal disgust at the
kind of indirect support he receives at the Polytechnic.
THE TESTIMONIAL TO ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS.
A final circular, issued December 20th, 1876, by the Andrew
Jackson Davis Committee, in New York, gives the following complete
list of the amounts received from subscribers in Great Britain:—
American Subscriptions ...    ... $4,646.17
LIST OF ENGLISH CONTRIBUTORS.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
William Tebb, Esq.
“Nicodemus,,
Thomas Grant, Esq.
Countess of Caithness ..
Alexander Calder, Esq.
P. R. Harrison, Esq
Mrs. Catherine Berry ..
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq. ..
James Bowman, Esq.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart...
Miss Ponder
S. C. Hall, Esq., F.S.A...
W. R. T  
R. Glendinning, Esq.
John Lamont, Esq.
H. Collen, Esq. ...
Wm. H. Harrison, Esq. .,
A. C. Swinton, Esq.
Thomas Blyton ...
Miss Kislingbury...
Augustus Johnston, Esq.
T. S 
Algernon Joy
From a German ...
A. Glendinning ...
£ s. d.
   25 0 0
m   20 0 0
  10 10 o
  10 10 0
  10 10 0
  10 10 0
  5 0 0
  3 3 0
  2 2 0
 2 2 0
 2 0 0
  110
 110
 110
  ...110
 10 0
 10 0
  10 0
 10 0
 10 0
  ...10 0
 0 10 6
 0 10 6
   0 10 0
  0 10 0
   0 6 0
  0 5 0
In American currency, at a premium
Dec. 20, William Green...
£114 3 o  
  $607-20
  $3,000.00
$8,153.37
A LEGEND OF THE SENECA INDIANS.
Hbrno, the great thunder-spirit, had his lodge behind the sheet of
water which pours down at the Falls of Niagara. For a very long time he
dwelt there, astonishing the Indians with his stunning peals, but never
venturing forth to practise his strange art before their eyes. They
could hear him and knew he was there ; but never as yet had he been
seen ; nor is it at all likely that he or the effects of the sun ever’
would have been seen but for a little incident, the results of which
brought him forth.
A young and beautiful maiden, residing at Seneca Village, just above
the falls, had been contracted in marriage by her father to an pld man
of disagreeable manners and hideous person. She at once resolved to
seek death rather than drag out the life of misery which such a union
must bring about; and with this object in view she launched forth from
the village in a bark canoe and swept down the rapids of Niagara,
singing her own death-song until she took the awful leap.
But death was not ready for her. Herno, the Thunder-spirit,
happened to be wide awake, and when he saw her coming down
among the foaming waters, he coolly caught her in his blanket and
conveyed her to his home behind the falls.
Of course the maiden had romance enough about her to be grateful
for all this, more especially when she found she was entirely beyond
the reach of the monster her “cruel pa-ri-ent” had selected to comfort
her through life. She fell upon the neck of the Thunderer and wept
sweet tears. The tears softened his stern heart, and led him to smooth
back, if not to toy, with her golden tresses. In short, to hurry through
a long story, they got to billing and cooing—they fell in love—they
fnade the interesting affair known to each other, and the wronged
though beautiful maiden became the wife of Herno, the Thunder-spirit,
and, as a matter of course, she was very happy.
About this time the Senecas of the village above the falls were
visited with a pestilence which swept them off by hundreds, and while
some prayed to the Great Spirit for help, others gathered around the
cataract and sent in their petitions to Herno. The tale of their suffer¬
ing moved the Thunderer, and he sent the maiden forth to tell her
people that a monstrous serpent was dwelling beneath their villlage,
just below the surface of the ground; that it was depending upon
their bodies for food, and that it came forth at the end of every moon
and poisoned the waters, in order that they might die, and be buried
within its reach.
As soon as the Indians learned this they pulled up and moved to
another locality ; consequently, when the great serpent poisoned the
waters as usual, the earth brought him no food. This was an affair
so strange that he crawled forth to see what it meant, when, to his
surprise, he found the village was deserted.
With many curses on the head of the Thunderer, as the author of
his misfortune, the serpent took the trail of the retreating Indians, and
started away in hot pursuit.
The maiden still loved her people, and when she saw the serpent
moving on to effect their further destruction she appealed to her hus¬
band to arrest him. Herno was not deaf to her entreaties, and so he
stepped forth from his hiding place, and launched a hissing bolt after
the serpent, which struck him just as he was endeavouring to cross the
narrows some distance above the falls.
The wound produced was a fatal one, and the great monster floated
down the stream, and lodged upon the verge of the cataract, stretching
nearly from shore to shore. The swift waters were dammed up by the
obstruction ; but they finally broke through the rocks behind, and
thus the whole top of the falls upon which the snake rested was pre¬
cipitated with it into the abyss below, excepting a small portion, which
is now known as Goat Island.
It almost entirely ruined the home of the Thunderer, for it reduced
the great space behind the waters to a very narrow compass. He still
occupies it as a sleeping apartment, however, and you may now hear
him snoring under there as you stand on the shore ; but if he would
exercise himself in his favourite pastime of throwing thunderbolts he
is forced to come forth into space less limited.
Unreasonable as this myth may sound, there can be no doubt that
the Senecas believed every word of it. When they were to be met
with in the Niagara country they pointed out a place near the mouth
of Cayuga Creek, where the banks were shelved out in a semi-circular
form, and declared that it had been done by the serpent in his death
throes, after having been wounded by Herno’s thunderbolt. And to
this tradition may be attributed their custom of putting away their
dead upon scaffolds above ground instead of burying them.—Iteligio-
Philosophical Journal.
THE CABALA.
(Prom the “ Public Leader.")
The chief heads of the Cabalistic doctrine, as summarised by Brucker
in his Historia Critica Philosophies, are these:—From nothing, nothing
can be produced, since the distance between existence and non-entity is
infinite. Matter is too imperfect in its nature, and approaches too
near to non-entity, to be self-existent. The Being from whom all
things proceed is a Spirit, uncreated, eternal, intelligent, percipient,
having within itself the principles of life and motion existing by the
necessity of its nature, and filling the immensity of space. This Spirit
is En-soph#, the Infinite Deity. This Eternal Fountain of existence
sends forth from himself natures of various orders, which, nevertheless,
are still united to their source. The world is a permanent emanation
from the Deity, in which his attributes and properties are unfolded, and
variously modified. The nearer any emanation is to the First Foun¬
tain the more perfect and divine in its nature ; and the reverse. Before
the creation of the world all space was filled with the Or Haen Soph,
or Infinite Intellectual Light. But when the volition for the production
of nature was formed in the Divine Mind, the Eternal Light, hitherto
equally diffused through the infinite expanse, withdrew itself to an equal
distance, in every direction, from a certain point, and thus left, about
this centre, a spherical portion of empty space, or a field for the opera¬
tions of emanation, by which all things were to be produced. In
the space from which the Divine Light was thus withdrawn there were
still, however, some portions, or traces, left of the Divine Essence
which were to become the receptacle of rays sent forth from the Eternal
Fountain, or the basis of Future Worlds. From a certain part of the
concavity of Infinite Light, which surrounded the opaque sphere, the
energy of emanation was first exerted, and rays were sent forth, in right
lines, into the dark abyss. The beam of light thus produced formed a
channel, through which streams were to flow for the production of
worlds. This beam was united to the Concave of Light, and was
directed towards the centre of the opaque sphere. From this luminous
channel streams of light flowed, at different distances from the centre,
in a circular path, and formed distinct circles of light, separated from
the Concave of Light, or from each other, by portions of dark or empty
space. Of these circles of light ten were produced, which may be
called Sephirce, or Splendours.
The First Emanation from the Eternal Fountain—itself the source of
all other emanations—may be distinguished by the name of Adam
Kadman, the First Man, the first production of Divine Energy, or
the Son of God. t The Sephirse are fountains of emanation subor¬
dinate to Adam Kadman, which send forth rays of Divine Light,
or communicate essence and life to inferior beings. The ten
Sephirte are known, according to the order of emanation, by the
names of Intelligence (or the Crown), Knowledge, Wisdom, Strength,
Beauty, Greatness, Glory, Stability, Victory, Dominion. These
are not the instruments of the Divine operations, but media,
through which the Deity diffuses himself through the sphere of the
universe, and produces whatever exists. They are not beings
detached from thie Deity, but substantial virtues, or powers,
distinctly, but dependently, sent forth from the eternal source of exist¬
ence through the mediation of Adam Kadman, the first emanating
| power, and becoming the immediate source of existence to subordinate
emanations. They are dependent upon the First Fountain, as rajs
upon a luminary, which is conceived to have sent them forth with a
power of drawing them back, at pleasure, into itself. The first infinite
source of being is the Ensophic World, or world of infinity, within
which, after the manner above described, four worlds are produced by
• * Soph derived from knowledge.
34
THE SPIRITtTAtlST.
Jan. 19,187^.
the law of emanation, according to which the superior is the immediate
source of the inferior; these are, Aziluth, or the world of emanation,
including the Sephirse; Jezirah, or the world of forms, composed of
substantial natures, derived from the superior spiritual substances, and
placed within ethereal vehicles, which they inform and animate; and
Asiah, or the material and visible world, comprehending all those sub¬
stances which are capable of motion, composition, division, and dissolu¬
tion. These derived worlds are different evolutions or expansions of
the Divine Essence, or distinct classes of beings, in which the infinite
light of the Divine Nature is exhibited with continually decreasing
splendour, as they recede from the First Fountain. The last and most
distant production of the Divine Energy of emanation is energy, which
is produced when the Divine Light, by its recession from the Fountain,
becomes so attenuated as to be lost in darkness, leaving nothing but an
opaque substance, which is only pne degree above nonentity. Matter
has no separate and independent existence, but is merely a modification,
and permanent effect of the emanative energy of the Divine Nature.
The Sephirse, or first order of emanative beings, existing in Aziluth, are
superior to spirits, and are called Pazzuplim, -persons, to denote that
they have a substantial existence. The inhabitants of the second world
are called “ Thrones,5' on account of the dominion which they possess
over the various orders of “ Angels 55 which inhabit the third world.
The fourth, or material world, is the region of evil spirits, called
Klipporth, the dregs of emanation. These are the authors of the
evil which is found in the material world ; but they are continually
aspiring towards the Sephirse, and will, in the great revolution of
nature, return into the inexhaustible fountain of Deity. Spirits of
all orders have a material vehicle, less pure and subtle in proportion
to their distance from En-soph; and this vehicle is of the nature of
the world next below that to which they belong. Metraton is the
prince of Jezirah, or the angelic world, in which there are ten dis¬
tinct orders; Sandalphon, of Asiah, or the material world; these,
together with the hosts over which they preside, animate aerial
vehicles, capable of impression from corporeal objects, and in differ¬
ent ways requiring renovation.
The human soul, proceeding by emanation from the Deity, is an
incorporeal substance, of the same nature with the Divine Intellect.
Being united to the body, one complex nature is produced, endued with
reason and capable of action. The human soul consists of four parts—
Nephesh, or the principle of vitality; Ruach, or the principle of motion;
Neschamah, or the power of intelligence; and Fechidah, a Divine prin¬
ciple, by means of which it contemplates superior natures, and even
ascends to the Ensophic world. All souls were produced at once, and
pre-existed in Adam. Every human soul has two guardian angels,
produced by emanation, at the time of the production of souls. The
mind of man is united to the Divine Mind, as the radius of a circle to
its centre. The souls of good men ascend above the mansion of the
angels, and are delighted with the vision of the First Light, which
illuminates all the worlds. The universe continues to exist by the
Divine energy of emanation. "Whilst this energy is exerted, different
forms and orders of beings remain; when it is withheld, all the streams
of existence return into their fountain. The En-soph, or Deity, con¬
tains all things within Himself, and there is always the same quantity
of existence, either created, as the Deity is unfolded, or evolved, by the
various degrees of emanation, which constitute the several forms and
orders of created nature.
This is the general outline of the Cabalistic philosophy, and although
it may seem that it is merely a profession of faith, conferring no magic
power, such a presumption will be found as baseless as any anticipation
our readers may have formed to the effect that Jews of the present day
had received a glorious heritage of sensible philosophy from their
ancestral Rabbins. When theologists of the olden time tried to evade
the criticism of sceptics, or the intuitively sensible curiosity of the
ignorant, they soared to the skies of imagination, and hid their
meanings in the clouds. To them nothing was impossible, and
when anything could not be accounted for by ordinary events, the
extraordinary was invoked with remarkable success. The Cabalists
could not halt at importing a senseless philosophy which required the
imprisonment of the mind in the fetters of the marvellous, but they pro¬
fessed to be able, on account of their Divine character to be able them¬
selves to achieve marvels. They whispered amongst their disciples that
there were certain forms and ceremonies by which miracles could be
performed, and taking advantage of the commandment which forbade
the use of the name of God on every trivial occasion—and which
the Jews had magnified, and still magnify, beyond the ordinary
bounds of superstition—they made this awful Name the centre of ail
their charlatanerie. They reckoned seventy-two forms of using the
Name; from which also, by different arrangements in seven, they
produced seven hundred and twenty: and besides this they attached
a magical importance to such things as David’s shield (the pentacle)
and Solomon’s signet.
Persecution of Mediums in California.—Mr. J. M. Peebles «
writes as follows under a recent date from San Francisco :—“ In this
place the work of persecution has commenced. Mrs. Pierce, a medium,
was thrown into jail, but is now out on i bail.’ Dr. Matthews has
been arrested. His trial comes off soon. For ten years I’ve written,
and more especially lectured, upon the necessity of organisation for
self-protection and finance, and upon the importance of giving our
Spiritualism a religious bias, and now Spiritualists generally are seeing
the necessity of these things. ‘The only way under heaven,’ said one
of the San Francisco lawyers to me yesterday, ‘ that these mediums
can escape fines and imprisonments is to make their mediumistic gifts
and communion their religion! ’ It matters little what course the
‘devil and his imps ’ may pursue, a rational, religious Spiritualism is
sure to come off victorious in the end.” " “'''
! THE CREMATION OF THE BODY OF A SPIRITUALIST.
The process of cremating the body of the late Baron de
| Palm at Dr. LeMoyne’s crematory, Washington, Pa., was
j. successfully accomplished Wednesday morning, Dec. 6th.
j The account given in the daily press states that the body
| arrived at the crematory on the 5th, and was placed on
| the catafalque in the reception-room of the crematory.
| The body was taken from the coffin and wrapped in white
cloth. It weighed ninety-two pounds, and was of a choco¬
late colour and perfectly odourless. The viscera had been
removed, the cavities being filled with a mixture of
crystallised carbolic acid and potter’s clay. At 8.29 a.m.
of the 6th, Dr. LeMoyne, Dr. Arsdale, of Pittsburg, H. J.
Newton, and Col. Olcott (the two latter the Baron’s execu¬
tors) carried the body to the mouth of the retort. Colonel
Olcott put on the body myrrh, frankincense, and cinnamon,
and the winding-sheet was saturated with an alum solution.
Boses, evergreen sprays, and immortelles were strewn upon
the body, and all was ready. The body was on a wire
cradle, which, when in the retort, raised it about two
inches from the bottom of the retort. The retort door
was opened, and, as the body slid in, a fume of smoke from
the burnt evergreens arose. A faint odour of burning flesh
pervaded the building, but no unpleasant feature appeared,
and the process was pronounced a success in every par¬
ticular. Observations every ten minutes disclosed the fact
that the remains rapidly shrunk in size, and passed away
in vapour and gases. At the end of the first hour the
bones crumbled, and the outline of the form was lost. At
the end of the second hour the body was largely reduced
in size, the larger bones and ribs only being visible, and
would apparently crumble at the slightest touch. At 10.45
o’clock the crib was moved back in the retort two inches,
and the whole mass crumbled. Colonel Olcott then pro¬
nounced the incineration was ended and complete in two
hours and twenty minutes. After the retort cooled, the
ashes were collected and placed in an urn provided for the
purpose. The press and the medical profession were
largely represented among those in attendance.—Banner of
Light.
SUNDAY AMUSEMENTS.
Last Sunday morning, the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A., incumbent of
St. James’s, Marylebone, conducted Divine service in St. James’s Hall,
his own church now undergoing repair. The hall was densely crowded,
owing to an announcement that the rev. gentleman would preach on
religion and recreation, with special reference to the opening of
museums and picture galleries, and Lord’s Day observance generally.
Religion and recreation, said the rev. gentleman, meant to a certain
extent the same thing—both meant to be born again. You could not
have religion without recreation, though you might have recreation
without religion. The old Sabbatical law had been abolished by the
coming of our Saviour. It was instituted at a time when the Israelites
were down-trodden slaves, so accustomed to ceaseless toil at the bidding
of harsh task-maskers that it was only by the most stringent injunc¬
tion that Moses wrought into them the principle of the power of the
day of rest. There was some danger of losing real religion altogether
if people went about their duties in an ultra-sanctimonious manner.
It was, he believed, quite possible to go to church in the morning, and
to devote the afternoon to innocent sports or recreations, without
offending God. The rev. speaker proceeded to quote the opinions of
the early Fathers of the Church on the subject, showing that St. Cyril
and St. Jerome fully endorsed this view, as in later times did Luther,
Calvin, and John Knox. On the occasion of the latter’s visit to the
Geneva divine on a Sunday afternoon, he actually found him engaged
at a game of bowls—a proceeding which would mightily shock many
of our clergy at the present day. The true reason for the retention
of the old Sabbatical observance of the Lord’s Day was that the
Reformers, in their anxiety to break loose from the trammels of the
Church of Rome, and its numerous feasts and fasts, went into the other
extreme, and made the Lord’s Day the austere and dreary thing it
was at present, and for which there was no warrant in our Lord’s
teaching. It was no use for a man to ask the opinion of a priest on this
matter. His own conscience should be his safest guide as to the observ¬
ance of the Lord’s Day. The Sabbatarians were highly inconsistent.
Twenty-five thousand cabs were employed in London every Sunday in
taking Sabbatarians to places of worship, and this was a fair sample of their
proceedings generally. A great deal was made of that absurd bugbear
the Continental Sunday, and all sorts of horrible prognostications were
held put as to what would ensue if Mr. Taylor’s motion became law.
He believed, however, there was no warrant for this, the irreligion
abroad being owing to the bigotry and superstition of Roman
Catholicism, which naturally resulted in scepticism of the worst degree.
The rev. gentleman concluded with an earnest appeal to his hearers to
do their utmost to procure some rational recreation for working men on
Sundays, and thereby keep them out of the soul and body destroying
public-houses which were now their only resource.—Daily Telegraph,
Jan. 19, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
35
CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS. | i
The week after next, on the 8th and 9th of February, a ij
Conference, convened by the National Association of | |
Spiritualists, will be held at 88, Great Russell-street. The | [
last Conference, which was held in November, 1874, was | |-
well attended; a goodly number of interesting papers, j j
followed by discussion, was read. At the present time, j |
when Spiritualism is attracting notice in every quarter, it m
maybe expected that some interesting subjects will come j ]
up at a meeting of Spiritualists in Conference; it is, there- ! j
fore, highly desirable that the papers should be sent in in j j,
good time, in order that due consideration may be given to j j
their order and arrangement. Papers will be received up j j
to the end of this week, and notice of the subjects for each | j
session will be duly given. j |
SPIRITUALISTIC IDEAS IN LEGAL PHRASEOLOGY. | |
At the Middlesex Sessions last Monday, Mr. William j j
Lawrence, an alleged medium, surrendered to answer an i j
indictment charging him “ for that he did designedly and I j
falsely pretend that he had the power to communicate with ju
the spirits of deceased and other persons not present at | j
the place where he the said William Lawrence was; and j !
that he had power to summon and produce such spirits in 1 |
a materialised form, and that divers musical instruments | j
—to wit, tambourines, banjos, and divers bells—were pre- j j
sent by means of such spirits summoned, produced, and j j
caused to be present, whereas, in truth, the said William | j
Lawrence had not the power to communicate with the j j
spirits of deceased and other persons, or to produce such | j
tambourines, banjos, and bells by the spirits aforesaid; j j
and whereas in truth and fact the said musical instru- j j
ments and bells did not by the sole means of the spirits j I
of such persons summoned, produced, and caused to be j j
present by the said William Lawrence’s fancy produce j j
musical and other sounds, as he, the said William Law- | |
rence well knew at the time he so falsely pretended, as j
aforesaid, against the form of the statutes,” &c. He was, |
therefore, further charged with obtaining money by false | |
pretences. j j
If the indictment tells the truth, Mr. Lawrence is not a ml
medium, for no medium is able to communicate with j I
spirits “not present,” or he would be as clever as Hood’s |||
Sally Brown, who, when a press-gang seized her “Ben,” j(|
shrieked:— i j
I will to the water-side, (j
And see him out of sight. ill
No medium is able to call up spirits. The spirits call [j
up their mediums, and occasionally do so somewhat j j
peremptorily. j j
THE CASE OF WILLIAM LAWRENCE. !
Mr. William Lawrence, a young man residing at the East-end of m
London, and who professed, by an advertisement in The Medium i (|
newspaper, to be both a Spiritualist and a medium, was last Tuesday j)!
sentenced by Mr. Edlin, at the Clerkenwell Sessions, to three months’ j)j
imprisonment, for obtaining money under false pretences. Whether (
he was a Spiritualist or not we do not know, and we first saw him after i j I
the charge had been brought against him. In reply to our request, j)
that he would send us some certificates written by people who had | (
tested the genuineness of his alleged physical manifestations, we j;
received no evidence that would carry weight. At the same time it is j (
possible that he possessed real medial powers, and set up as a profes- J
sional medium without having had those powers verified, and without ]>
presenting them under such test conditions as would give reasonable j (
satisfaction as to their reality to observers.; If this is the case he is now j (
suffering the consequences of imprudence, and has increased popular j)
prejudice against the Spiritual movement, by which movement he has | (
never been recognised. The particular charge was brought against i j
him in connection with circumstances which occurred at an alleged ])
materialisation seance, and anybody who has read the long accounts of it I (
in the daily newspapers, and has had practical experience in relation to j)
such facts as were recorded in Miss Kislingbury’s paper, read recently j)
before the National Association of Spiritualists, will see that a Court i(
■ of Law is not ordinarily competent to form an accurate opinion as to n
the genuineness or otherwise of such presentations without the aid of |)
experts. Mr. Lawrence, on being removed from the court, remarked j <
to the Judge that he believed that the said Judge, within his own I)
heart, thought him to be innocent. In times to come the reality or j)
otherwise of Mr. Lawrence’s powers will no doubt be tested; the H
merits of his case will then be better understood than at present. i;
The Slade Appeal will probably be heard at Clerkenwell about the
29th January,
ANDREW LEIGHTON.
Mr. Andrew Leighton died on Sunday morning, 14th January, at
his house, 35, High Park-street, Liverpool. He had returned from a
visit to Dundee, his native place, on the preceding Wednesday, suffer¬
ing from cold and hemorrhage of the lungs. His health for some time
past had caused his friends considerable anxiety, but the fatal termina¬
tion has come upon them as a sharp surprise.
Few men perhaps had a larger circle of affectionate friends—of
friends who resorted to him as to a fountain of sympathy, counsel, and
strength. With unlimited patience, kindness, and goodness, he ful-
.filled a multitude of duties with marvellous accuracy and efficiency,
serving others with unreserved energy, and without a thought of self.
He was in truth an exemplification of Paul’s definition of charity—he
suffered long, and was kind ; he envied not; he vaunted not himself;
he was not puffed up ; he sought not his own ; he was not easily pro¬
voked ; he thought no evil. Indeed, he was never so moved to indig¬
nation as when some character was denounced unjustly or too severely.
A scoundrel appeared to him incomprehensible, he having nothing
answering thereto in himself—which, in this wicked world, was a
serious defect.
Mr. Leighton was from early times a Spiritualist, and twenty-two
years ago reprinted in this country Adin Ballou’s testimonies, with an
excellent preface. His convictions were mature and firm, and it was
an admirable study in controversy to behold him in conflict with an
anti-Spiritualist, and to witness the good-natured ease with which he
would wrest weapon after weapon from his antagonist, who usually
ended with the confession that there was some substance in Spiritualism
after all. Within the past few weeks he conducted a lengthy discussion
on vaccination in the Liverpool newspapers, with a cogency and courtesy
which won the respect of all readers.
It is hard, very hard, for those who have given their love and con¬
fidence to Mr. Leighton to lose his visible presence; but they will
poorly illustrate the principles he maintained if they regard his
departure as more than apparent. He is with them still, if secretly,
more profoundly and powerfully. For himself, the change must be
ineffably delightful; for he has gone whither the generous heaven,
within his own breast, will be repeated as a heaven of correspondent
loveliness and magnificence around him.
Spiritualism in Liverpool.—Last Sunday evening Dr. William
Hitchman was the appointed lecturer at Meyerbeer Hall, Liverpool,
and the subject chosen was “ Soul in its Scientific Aspects.” In the
course of his remarks, which embraced some rather abstruse problems
in the domain of intellectual philosophy, the lecturer said that at present
there is a theory of life and mind prevalent in Germany, defended
strongly by Buchner, Yogt, and others, having a purely material or
mechanical origin as well as tendency. The same form of scientific
materialism is likewise upheld in France through the writings of such
men as Gomte and Broca; and scarcely less is this the case in England,
since the works of Darwin, Huxley, and Tyndall set forth that the end
of human existence flows naturally from its beginning, no proof of soul
or mind being discoverable as possibly existing apart from body, or
after its dissolution, but death joining alike both soul and body in one
inexorable sepulchre of everlasting unconsciousness. The lecturer con¬
troverted these several hypotheses, by adducing remarkable examples of
the operation of will, judgment, reason and intelligence in some of the
lowest animals, such as polypi, worms, water nymphs, and other creatures
displaying mental faculties in the entire absence of the ordinary nervous
structure presumed by materialists to be the abode of mental power.
The address was full of arguments, supported by illustrations with
scientific details, in favour of the distinct existence of a psychical and
spiritual nature, entirely exempt from the physical and chemical pro¬
cesses of dissolution, as now demonstrated by modern Spiritualism.
Conference in Newcastle-on-Tyne. --On Sunday afternoon last,
January 14th, the members of the North of England Conference
Committee held their third quarterly conference in the Freemasons’
Hall, Newgate-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne. Mr. J. J. Morse, of London,
occupied the chair. The treasurer’s report stated the expenses last
quartertohavebeen^l213s. 5d. Cash received,£2 16s. lOd. Balancedue
to Treasurer, £9 16s. 7d., which falls upon the Guarantee Fund. The
secretary’s report stated that the committee had met six times during
its three months term of office, and that a total of eighty-two atten¬
dances had been recorded ; that one lecture had been held at Walker-
on-Tyne, and that 5,000 copies of the Slade circular had been distri¬
buted ; also 5,000 copies of the Medium and Daybreak, enclosing a
small tract, with the rides for forming circles printed on it. The
report spoke of the lack of co-operation in the district in relation to
the purposes of the conference, and it concluded by saying, “ a con¬
ference may do a great deal, but cannot succeed without the co-opera¬
tion of those it desired to work with.” The report was adopted after
a considerable amount of discussion on the part of Messrs. Mould,
Burnsides, Westgarth, Kersey, Robson, and others. It was resolved
that the new committee should be composed of volunteers instead of
nominees, the suggestion originating with Mr. J. Mould. A number
of gentlemen then volunteered, and the new committee was con¬
structed of them. Mr. E. J. Blake was elected treasurer; Mr.
R. Mowbray, 23, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne, was re¬
elected as secretary. It was resolved to hold the next conference on
Easter Monday afternoon, and to hold a tea and social meeting at its
close. A vote of thanks to the chairman then brought the conference
to a close. In the evening the Lecture Hall was filled to hear a
discourse, through the mediumship of Mr. Morse, on “ Spiritualism
and its Critics.” It was well received. At its close, the chairman,
Mr. T. P. Barkas, [characterised it as “ a logical, able, and poetical
treatment of an ably-sustained and valuable lecture.” The meeting
then dispersed.
36
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 19, 1877.
DK. CARPENTER’S DRIED PEAS.
From “ The Medium”
“ But you must confess that he has a great mind.”
“ A great mind ! a great fiddlestick ! a great bladder for dried peas
to rattle about in ! ” said Mrs. Cadwallader, vivisecting Mr. Casaubon,
according to George Eliot’s veracious record in Middlemarch.
A perusal of Dr. W. B. Carpenter’s second lecture at the London
Institution irresistibly recalls!this passage. It is no part of my design
to traverse the ground covered by the lecturer, and to point out how
entirely he fails to deal with facts. Other writers, if they think it
worth while, may do that, and very easy work they will find it. It is
my wish to point out a few of these “ dried peas ” that make such a
rattling; and when they are pointed out, my readers will have no
difficulty in seeing what lifeless, dried-up things they are, how desti¬
tute of all power of germination, what good-for-nothing relics of a by¬
gone time.
Forty years this “ great mind ” has been concerning itself with the
fallacies of Spiritualism and kindred subjects. During forty years it
has fastened upon all phenomena that came in its way, and so Dr.
Carpenter would have us to conclude, has eminent claims on attention.
The conclusion most informed persons will draw is somewhat different.
If, as the lecturer says, he has spent forty years with this result, then
forty worse spent years were never passed by man. Any school-boy
(as Macaulay would have said)—any fairly educated and unprejudiced
man would be able to disprove all his conclusions in forty weeks, and
less: and to put in the place of these “dried peas,”"facts of vital
power which will increase and multiply, and bear their wholesome
fruit. After forty years, Dr. Carpenter ought to know better: and it
may be suggested to him whether there is not something radically
wrong in the method which has produced such results.
Here are some of his “ dried peas.”
Inherent Iv'possibility.—What you say is inherently impossible, and
sol reject it. Why? Because it is. A good feminine reason: but
before Dr. Carpenter has a right to use it, he must be able to affirm that
he knows all the laws of nature, and therefore can state that these
phenomena do not occur in accordance with any of them. And in
order to do that he must also know by what laws they do occur; in
which case he would be a good deal wiser than he is. Nothing is
“ inherently impossible,” not even that Dr. Carpenter may one day see
and confess his errors. The word “ impossible ” ought to be expunged
from our dictionaries. It is a “dried pea” too: a cover for ignorance,
and an excuse for laziness.
Self-Deception.—Mediums are victims of hysteria, fond of unhealthy
notoriety, shamming to gain attention. Well, and what of the people
who attest the phenomena ? Are they hysterical too ? Do men watch
the evolution of these phenomena day by day for years, and that not in
open circles, where inducements for deception may be presumed to
exist, but in the seclusion of their own families, and then maintain
silence about them in public, lest they should be annoyed by gossip
and idle questions—and this for the sake of notoriety? Was there
ever such a “dried pea ” as this ? If Dr. Carpenter knew as much as
he would have us to believe he does of Spiritualism, he would know
that there are hundreds of private circles where all these phenomena
which he disputes are daily occurring ; and he will not persuade the
members of them that they are all self-deceived. They will tell him
that “ the boot is on the other leg.”
Intentional Deception.—Nor will they be prepared to hear with
patience that their wives and daughters, sons and husbands, are inten¬
tional impostors ; that the baby who can’t speak has learned conjuring
tricks in its mother’s womb, and is now engaged in a successful attempt
to impose on its fond mother’s credulity. To them that will seem
very nearly “ inherently impossible.” Nor, putting all other considera¬
tions out of view for the moment, will they entertain a high notion of
the case of an opponent who is reduced to such arguments to bolster it up.
Unconscious muscular action.—This is a very dry pea indeed. Dr.
Carpenter has had it in his pocket, any time these forty years. Ideo¬
motor action is its alias, and it comes out of the same pod as unconscious
cerebration. The one explains all physical, the other all mental phe¬
nomena. Well, as a matter of fact, they don’t explain anything but a
very small proportion of cases. The ideo-motor pea does not touch
cases of motion without contact, such as the present writer has seen
and carefully observed in scores of cases. The other does not touch
the best and most trustworthy cases, of which I could narrate a !(
score on the spur of the moment, which have occurred in my own per¬
sonal experience, where information undoubtedly external to my mind
has been communicated from without. And my conclusion is also
that of a number of others, who have had facilities for observation.
Indeed, I do not know any man who has had proper means of investi¬
gation, and who has used them without “ prepossession,” who has not
arrived at this same conclusion. Dr. Carpenter does himself injustice
in insisting as he does on his prolonged investigation of these occult
facts. They can, by their nature, be exhaustively investigated only by
those in whose presence they occur, or by those who have constant '
and regular access to a “ sensitive.” They can’t be produced to order,
and Dr. Carpenter can’t have them ready for him when he finds time
to call and look at them. So he misses them, and he has not seen in
Lis forty years a tithe of what a man who has a sensitive in his house
may see in one year, or less.
Statement of half facts.—A dangerous expedient largely resorted to
by the lecturer himself. In all this pea-rattling he has only skirted
the fringe of the subject. He either does not know or has suppressed
allusion to all the more important phenomena of Modern Spiritualism ;
and even when he is forced into a corner, and obliged to promise that
he will investigate facts brought under his notice, he eagerly avails j)i
himself of any loophole of escape. This was so in the case brought
before him by Dr. Wyld, respecting which that gentleman castigates
him in the Daily News of December 19. This was so in Slade’s case.
Prepossession causes him to be a great offender in this respect of
ignoring inconvenient facts, and stating the half case only that makes
i for his “dominant idea.”
| Dominant idea.—Here is another “ dried pea,” “ What! ” says Dr.
I Carpenter, “ you persist in saying that tables move of themselves,
I when I have shown you that you move them yourself! You
persist in regarding clairvoyance as a fact, when I tell you it is a
delusion! You persist in your' belief in the evidence of your senses?
You are a monomaniac—the victim of a dominant idea—the sport of a
prepossession! ” Here is a glorious rattle! What does it mean ?
! Simply this, that we have a prepossession in favour of our facts, and
i Dr. Carpenter against them. Undoubtedly we have; but, as I have
before pointed out, there is this difference between us : ours is the pre¬
possession born of repeated observation, his the prepossession which
rests on prejudice and dislike. We have seen, therefore we believe.
He has not seen, therefore he does not believe. That is all.
And now what does all this pea-rattling amount to ? We are
deceivers or deceived; we are ignorant, and foolish to believe what we
| think we see, but what Dr. Carpenter knows we don’t. Above all, we
are inaccurate as to our facts.
Quis tulerit Gracchos de seditione querentes ?—Who is this that talks
of accuracy? On a certain memorable occasion a F.R.S. delivered a
lecture, in which he attacked another F.R.S. in his absence, and at¬
tempted to demonstrate the falsity of an experiment made by him to
prove the existence of a force called Psychic. The history of that con¬
troversy may be read in the Researches in the Phenomena of Modern
Spiritualism, by W. Crookes, F.R.S. The inaccurate exposer who
was so completely exposed was Dr. W. B. Carpenter.
At the late meeting of the British Association, this same accurate
man of science quoted from memory an account of the singular pheno¬
mena which occurred under such perfect conditions in the house of Dr.
Speer. The Doctor had detailed the formation of the cross in a closed
room, as a good case of motion without contact. In his reproduction
of the record, given to him with the strictest scientific accuracy, as I
can testify, he so transformed it that every point was altered, every
statement falsified, and then calmly proceeded to adduce it as a proof
of Dr. Speer’s incapacity for observation. Dr. Speer exposed the mis¬
statements, but they have not been withdrawn and apologised for.
Again, the delinquent is Dr. W. B. Carpenter.
Yet again, in this second London Institution lecture occur state¬
ments respecting Mr. A. R. Wallace and Dr. Wyld, which were charac¬
terised in the Daily News of December 19th in terms that should make
Dr. Carpenter look to his own glass house before he throws stones at
other people’s. Mr. Wallace says, “ It is hardly too much to say that
every one of the more important statements which Dr. Carpenter puts
before the public as evidence in his favour may be shown to be equally
opposed to the actual facts of the case,” as a statement which Mr.
Wyld had just before shown to be utterly untrue. And again, “ The
most charitable view we caff take of Dr. Carpenter’s persistently ignoring
or misstating all facts opposed to his own stereotyped theories, is that
he is the slave of a dominant idea.”
Dr. Wyld convicts him of (C three very important mistakes” in one
paragraph, and concludes with Mr. Wallace that the Doctor’s prepos¬
sessions have made a monomaniac of him by placing him “ under sub¬
jection to a tyrannically dominant idea.”
Even Mr. Lancaster had to call on Dr. W. B. Carpenter for an
apology for misstatement, an apology which, by-the-by, he never re¬
ceived. So that on all grounds, and on the witness of his own friends,
brothers in that sacred mutual admiration brotherhood, the Royal
Society, Dr. Carpenter should be the last man to charge other people
with inaccuracy, especially when that inaccuracy does not exist. It
is he who is inaccurate; it is we who are literally exact.
It would be of no moment whatever to note these glaring facts,
were it not that there are still a number of pteople who take their
ideas from men who, like Dr. Carpenter, rattle the peas loudly enough:
sheep who jump after the bell-wether, persons who cannot, or will not,
think for themselves. It may be well to warn such that they must
not swallow everything that Dr. Carpenter tells them. He is not a
trustworthy guide in all things; and when his prepossessions are stirred
he is less trustworthy than ever. Just now he is especially to be dis¬
trusted, for, like his brother F.R.S., Prof. Lankester, he has shouldered
his mop and joined that crazy band of enthusiasts of whom Mrs,
Partington is the immortal type. —M. A. (Oxon.)
At the last Council Meeting of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, one of the new members of the Association elected was the
Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A.
A Book by Madame Blavatsky.—Madame Blavatskyhas been for
some time past engaged in preparing for the press a volume called The
Veil of Isis ; or, Skeleton Keys to Mysterious Gates. It will comprise
eight or nine hundred octavo pages. The publisher, J. W. Benton, has
not yet determined whether to print it in two volumes or one, but inclines
to the latter. It will appear simultaneously in London and New York.
The MS has been reviewed and most highly praised by Prof. Alexander
Wilder, M.D., the Platonist and Archaeologist, who pronounces it “ a
book with a revolution in it”—equal to Enemoser’s great work on
The History of Magic in every respect. Her long residence in
India, Thibet, and Egypt, her constant intercourse with the learned
mystics of those countries, and her free access to the precious libraries
of ancient books and MSS. in their hands, have fitted her as no other
critic has been fitted for the colossal task she has now almost completed.
Surprise will be evoked at the complete answers which she will afford
to the many queries and speculations propounded by Max Muller, Haug,
Kingsborough, Lord Amberley, Coleman, Inman, and others, as to the
real meaning of Oriental symbols and myths.—Banner of Light.
THE SPIRITUALIST
111
Jan. 19, 1877.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
utlistn, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News-
piper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of Spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
footfalls on the boundaey of anothee
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
EEPOET ON SPIEITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes- ,
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
EESEAECHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIEIT-
tlALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. ' The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MlEAGLEiS AND MODEEN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OE, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIEITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIEITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, IT. S. This
book consists of. essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney*, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences; Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. IL, by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.O.L. This newly^published book contains Facts
and Traditions • relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, hut considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
grantedhecauseuttered oy a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF' IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
offamous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion: and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium fight. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
ana Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Sims; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordina’ry book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient inteliigence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 21s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a’trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth, Best edition, gilt, 10s. ed.; cheap edition,
7s. Sd. „
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by ..spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration¬
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCIL ABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains tbe
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAV EN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. ed.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS, CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.'
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. ed.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. I6s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTERLAND. Aninteresting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas. •
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s..!
LIFE LINE OP THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by1 the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
3. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By O. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s, ed.) 4s.
Lately published, in two volumes, 8vo, cloth, price 28s.
A PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE on the
NATURE and CONSTITUTION of MAN. By Guobqe
G. Harris, LL.D., F.S.A., Barrister-at-law, Vice-President of
the Psychological Society, and of the Anthropological Institute;
and Author of “The Theory of the Arts,” “Civilisation con¬
sidered as a Science,” &c.
This work embraces a comprehensive and complete survey
of the nature and constitution of man, physical, moral, and
intellectual, exhibiting, moreover, the mutual connection and
dependence of each branch. Topics connected with the
spiritual being, and the leading opinions on this subject,
including the nature, essence, properties, and mode of opera¬
tion of the soul; the alliance between matter and spirit;
reason and instinct, their affinity and diversity, more espe¬
cially, are here discussed; and a new theory is propounded of
our intellectual system, as also respecting the distribution,
mode of action, discipline, and cultivation of the mental
faculties.
Eminent authorities on certain of the subjects here embraced,
among them some distinguished writers on psychology, physio¬
logy and natural history, foreign as well as English, have been
in correspondence with, and have been consulted by the
author, by several of whom valuable notes, which will be read
with much interest, on various and important controverted
points, have been contributed.
“The writer who undertakes a work like this, requires at
once a comprehensive intellect, a widespread reading and
experience, an unprejudiced mind, and almost superhuman
industry. All these qualities appear to be combined in Mr.
Harris.”— Westminster Review.
“A treatise so ambitious and comprehensive in subject and
scope, demands great natural powers, immense research,
patient meditation, and assimilation of the labours of others.
All these requisites Mr. Harris brings to his task. His work
proves that a searching inquiry into man’s nature is alike
independent of two extremes, the negation of Atheism, and
theological intolerance, A perusal will lead every man of
faith to inquire more, and every man of science to believe
more.—Hour.
“ This work is one of considerable value, and of deep interest.
Indeed, it is somewhat difficult to lay it down when you have
once become absorbed by its contents. We moreover venture
to assert that it is impossible to read a single chapter of the
book without being struck with the vast array of authorities,
. ancient and modern, that have been read or consulted, the
wide and varied information sought or obtained, and the
original thought displayed in dealing with its deeply interesting
and abstruse objects of research.”—John Bull.
“ Dr. Harris has evidently read the writings of both ancient
and modern anthropologists and philosophers wiih care ; and
the work will always be valuable as indicative of deep re¬
search, and a sound, though diffuse, method of treating the
subject; Every quality and style of thought are represented
by tbe gentlemen who have contributed to the notes, which
range from the thoughs of Mr. Gladstone and Dr. Newman to
those of Sir John Lubbock.”—Public Opinion.
“This is a most elaborate and learned production, and
testifies on the part of its author his immense research and
great ingenuity. It is, without the name, an Encycloptedia
of man. Dr. Harris’s work is very valuable as a great collec¬
tion of facts, most of them thoroughly sifted by himself, and
many of them having been subjected to the correction of
acknowledged authorities.”—Dundee Advertiser.
“ The present work is the first attempt of the kind; and Dr.
Harris deserves praise for the origin and completion of his
most laborious performance. In these frivolous days, such
books and such authors are rare. Altogether, it is a produc¬
tion highly creditable to the intelligence and industry of the
author, and one which no one interested in the subject on
which he writes can read without profit.”—Literary World.
“We have probably quoted enough from this very thought¬
ful and suggestive work to induce the many members of the
Institute who are interested in the psychological treatment of
the question, to seek pleasure and instruction in its pages.
Added value is given to it by the interesting circumstance
that the proof sheets of several portions were submitted to
learned friends of the author—such as Sir John Lubbock, Dr.
Richardson, Dr. Newman, and many others—and have been
enriched by their comments.”—Journal of the Anthropological
nstitute.
London: GEORGE Bell & Sons, York-street, Covent-garden.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR,
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may he proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders' THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ’’ an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s.- 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. JOHN ROUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Published at 7s. 6d, Reduced to 4s,
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin;
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about an’mal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for ua to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s,
Inland Postage ;4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 19, 1877,
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
Dr. Slade, a stranger, from the United States, on his
journey to St. Petersburg, is, by an unfortunate sentence of a
magistrate, under condemnation to imprisonment, and punish¬
ment appropriate to a criminal is meted out to him. This
highly-gifted sensitive, the greatest medium of the day in
EnglaiM. is condemned to “hard labour,” and will, in January,
1877, becisme the forced associate of criminals. Unless we
adopt some effectual means, nothing can prevent this out¬
rageous calamity.
The affair is not individual, but relates to all. The struggle
raised before the nation is between Materialism and Spiritual¬
ism. A more important issue was never before us. Spiritual¬
ism demonstrates, through facts occurring around us, the
existence of a future life; while Materialism would deprive
humanity of the precious doctrine of immortality.
When we reflect that the proceedings aimed at Dr. Slade
are really designed more as a blow to the sacred cause of
Spiritualism than against him, shall Spiritualists stand by
and accept the verdict without remonstrance? Will they,
without appeal, suffer him, whom they consider innocent, to
be imprisoned and punished as a felon without a struggle?
Assuredly not. Conscience being our witness, let us perform
what we know to be right.
The question is before m. According to the measure of
support so will be the power of the Committee, and their
ability for action.
Donations will be thankfully received by the joint treasurers
PV by the secretary.
The Executive Committee.
Alexandre Calder, 1, Hereford-
square, South Kensington, S.W.
1J. Enmorh Jones, Enmore-park,
GEof'WYLD, M.D., 12, Great Cum-
berland-place, W.
C. o. Massey.
W. S. Moses, M.A.
on. See.—A. Joy, C9, Great Bussell Street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
SUBSCRIPTIONS.
£ s. d.
The St. Petersburg Committee  50 0 0
Mr. G. C. Joad    30 0 0
Miss Douglas     25 0 0
“Nicodemus”      25 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder    21 0 0
„ J. N. T. Martheze   20 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn  20 0 0
, Countess Caithness  10 10 0
Mrs. Weldon  |   10 10 0
Mr. Martin Smith   10 10 0
„ Thomas Grant  10 10 0
Mr. W. Tebb      1010 0
Miss H   ....;  10 0 0
Sir C. Isham, Bart    10 0 0
Mr. A. Tod     10 0 0
„ J. Bulteel    10 0 0
“ Lady Jane Grey ”     10 0 0
B. P. J ;...,  10 0 0
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood ;  10 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe   10 0 0
Prince Emile von Wittgenstein   6 0 0
Mr. J. Enmore Jones   5 0 0
„ C. C. Massey    5 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     5 0 0
„ Douglas Bayley..     6 0 0
Oscar von Hoffman   6 0 0
Dr. George Wyld     5 0 0
Mr. T. E. Partridge   5 0 0
Mrs. Hennings  5 0 0
Mr. N. Kilburn, jun  5 0 0
„ A. Joy     5 0 0
Dr. S. T. Speer      6 0 0
Mr. A. T. T. Peterson   5 0 0
Mrs. H    5 0 0
An American  5 0 0
Mrs. O. Bird.     5 0 0
A. v. H    5 0 0
Friends at Belper, per W. P. Adshead   3.10 0
Newcastle, pet H. N. Kersey...;  3 10 0
Mrs. Strawbridge  3 3 0
Profit on Sale of Photographs   2 13 0
Mr. J. B. Stones - 2 12 6
F. J. T. (collected)....' ’..  2 2 6
Mr. H. Withall   2 2 0
Captain James   2 2 0
M.A. (Oxon.)    2 2 0
Mr. O. Pearson   2 2 0
Mr. W. P. Adshead    2 2 0
Mr. F^ W. Percival    2 2 0
Dr. J. Dixon .'  2 0 0
Mrs. Lowe    2 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun  '200
Mr. A. R. Wallace   2 0 0
„ J. C. Ferguson    2 0 0
“ Disciple ”  2 0 0
Mrs. Watkins       2 0 0
Mr. J. H. Gledetanes..  2 0 0
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore   2 0 0
Mr. Geo. Stones  1 i o
I J. Mould       110
Dr. K. Cook      110
K.G    110
J.B. W    110
Mrs. Maltby    1 1 .0
Major Menars     110
Mr. J. C. Ward   110
„ E. D. Rogers   110
„ Morell Theobald    110
„ William Theobald  110
„ B. M. Theobald, M.D.'    1 1 o
„ H.N.. ;  110
„ J. Andre   110
„ JamesBrown    110
The Misses Withall   110
Dr. Baikie..     110
Anon, per C. C. Massey   110
A. M. W., by Mr. J. Bums   110
Mr. T. P. Barkas.....    110
„ Tucker   1 o 0
Mrs. S. Parker    10 0
Miss Douglas Bayley   10 0
Mr. A. Sinedley      10 0
„ F. Smedley  10 0
“ D ” (Clericus)  10 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan   10 0
Mr. St. George Stock    10 0
,, C. Beimers    10 0
,, J. Walhouse   10 0
St. G. Stock    10 0
Smaller sums      4 10 6
Collected by Mr. J. Bums  ,..  2 0 6 ■ -
Spiritualists' Defence Fund continued.
From America.
The following consists of amounts advertised as received by
The Banner of Light newspaper, Boston, U.S., towards the “ Slade
Defence Fund,” up to the 30th Dec., of which £264 Ss. has
already been remitted to England.
dols.
Colby and Rich (Publishers Banner of Light),
Boston  200,00
Epes Sargent, Esq., Boston    50.00
A. P. H. (a Spirit) '.    25,00
Mrs. Mary M. Hardy, Boston  25,00
Henry J. Horn, N. Y. City    5,00
Jefferson Cutter, Medford, Mass    3,00
G. Sweet, N. Y. City    2,00
Isaac Gibbs, Springfield, Mass  5,00
Harvey Howes, North Bennington, Vt.  5,00
John A. Day, Norfolk, Mass    2,00
H. E. Parsons, Ashtabula, O    100,00
J. L. Donaldson, Boston, Mass  5 00
W. H. B    3,00
Ohas. Levy, St. Louis, Mo  2,00
A. Fuller, Waltham. Mass  2,00
Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston   10,00
L. B. Wilson, Boston   3,00
F. A. Gould, Boston.;   10,00
G. H. Woodis, Worcester   2,00
Wm. Benson, Albany, N.Y  100,00
David Appleton, Lowell, Mass    100,00
Andrew Williams, Lawrence, Mass  100,00
James Codman, Worcester, Mass  100,00
Sarah Johnson, Worcester, Mass  100,00
Dr. Josiah Jordan, Springfield, Mass   5,00
Mrs. Louisa Andrews, Springfield, Mass  5,00
E. Crowell, M.D., Brooklyn, N.Y  50,00
O. M. Burrett, New Haven, Ot  2,00
Geo. Stacy, Montreal, P. Q  2,00
A. Burford, East Liverpool, Ohio  2,00
M. A. Giles    2,00
O. Giles     2,00
A Friend to the Cause    2,00
W. Y., Philadelphia, Pa    25,00
Joseph Wescott, No. Castine, Me  2,00
Geo. W. Smith, Boston, Mass  20,00
J. DuBois, Everett, Pa    5,00
Mrs. A. C. Whittemore. New Boston, Ct  3,00
L. K. Joslin, Providence, B. 1  3,00
Jas. T. Walton, Terre Haute, Ind    10,00
Chas. P. Perot, Philadelphia, Pa ,.... 5,00
A Friend, Spencer, Mass..  2,00
Henry Seyberts, Philadelphia, Pa  25,00
H. G. Wyte, Buffalo, N. Y  2,00
Joseph Kinsey '.   5,00
Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Tucke    3,00
Martin Hiscox, Providence, B. 1  2,00
Henry Rennan, W. Meriden, Conn  2,00
Henry Gildemeister, Bunker Hill, 111  2,00
“ A Liberal,” Greenville, Me  3,00
H.K. Morrill      2,00
Jos. P. Hazard, Peacedale, B. 1  5,00
Dr. G.B. Brooklyn, N. Y.    3,00
J. N.H., Peacedale, B. I.    25,00
Joseph Beals, Greenfield, Mass  2,00
Jas. Wilson, Bridgeport, Conn  5,00
F. R. Baker, Topeka, Kan  6,00
James Shackleton, Lawrence, Mass  2,00
F. Hinckley, Barnstable, Mass  5,00
Warren S. Barlow, St. Johnsbury, Vt  6,00
Frederick Schroeder, Papineau, III  2,50
Joseph Schroeder, ditto  5,00
Samue Robinson, Swansea, Mass  2,00
David A. Mundy, Bahway, N. J  2,00
“A Friend of the Banner”  50,00
J. W. Robins, M.D., Uxbridge, Mass  2,00
Mr. and Mrs; J. Roberts, Bush, N.Y  2,00
J. B. Angel, Bed Bank, N. J    5,00
Lucy James, Danielsonville, Conn  6,85
Wm. A. Atkins, Provincetown, Mass.    5,00
Mrs. Chas, Baldwin, Fayville, Mass   5,00
J. Mayo, Waltham, Mass     '.  2,00
A. M. Gaffield, ditto     2,00
Isaac and D. W. Wright, Harvard, Mass  2,00
Mrs. A. I/. Pratt, New Haven, Conn   2,00
Samuel Smart, Willoughby, Ohio...-.  2,00
Joseph Dimmock, Stonington, Conn  2,00
Robert Kerr Elliott, Live Oak, Fla  3,00
Jas. Lawrence, ditto      3,00
S. C. Moses, Mendota, 111   2,00
B. L. Wade, Jefferson, Ohio  10,00
C. B. Brooklyn, N. Y    2,00
J. F. Hamilton, Berlin, Wis  2,00
E, Man, Litchfield, Mich  5,00
E, Nickerson, Burton Harbour, Mich  2,00
Calven Westover, Oxford, N. Y  10,00
Friends, Charlotte, Mich     2,50
S. G. N. Millerton, N. Y.    2,00
E. B. Whiting, New Haven, Conn    6,00
H. W. Ballard, Malone, N. Y.    2,00
W. M. C., Philadelphia, Pa.   5,00
B. Ellis, Plymouth, Mass    2,00
S. H. Austin, Syracuse, N.Y.   2,00
Jas. Thompson, Devonport, la    2,00
Levi P. Benjamin. Friendship, N.Y  2,00
Luther B. Ames, Worcester, Mass ;  2,00
Ansel Edwards, New Orleans, La    3,00
Thomas B. Watford, Philadelphia, Pa  2,00
J. L., New Jersey   2,00
Mrs. M. A E. Green, W. Winfield. N.Y  5,00
Dr. J. S. Loucks, Potsdam, N.Y    2,00
Bobert Butherford, Rochester, N.Y  5,00
From One who Hates Persecution   10,00
J. D. Wheeler, Acton, Mass    2,00
Henry Miller, Sacramento, Cal  10,00
M. A. Britton, Santa Bosa, Cal  2,00
Harvey Lyman, Springfield, Mass  2,00
James S. Draper, Wayland  2,00
Isaac Snow, Boston, Mass  5.00
C. N. Lyme, Philadelphia, Pa    2,00
Mrs. Lavelette   5,00
Sundry persons  (  16,13
L. Elliott, Live Oak, Fla  2,50
Joseph Willoughby, Manchester, N.H  2,00
W. N. Choate, Jackson Mills, Mich.  5,00
E. J. Kempton, New Bedford, Mass  2,00
Granville W. Lukens, Mt. Holly, N.J  2,00
Mrs. G. W. Keene, Lynn, Mass  5,00
Charles Chittenden, Boston, Mass  3,00
F. T. Houghton, San Francisco, Cal  2,00
P. A. Cornell, Central Village, Conn  2,00
Friends, New Britain, Conn  6,50
Friend of Beligious Freedom, Dalton, Pa.  2,00
S. Morton, Winslow, N.J.   2,00
Lucius Bond, Dalton, N.H.    2,00
I. L. Sage, Frankfort, Ky  3,60
Spiritualists' Defence Fund, continued.
A. J. Kenney, Pana, 111.   2,00
Mary S. Doty and S. B. Smith, Peru, N.Y. ... 5,00
Geo. Watt, Augusta, 111    2,00
Eben Snow, Cambridge, Mass  2,50
H. H. Ostrom, Alton, N.Y  2,00
Mrs. Sarah Compton, Hyde-park, Pa  3,00
A. A. Wheelock, in behalf of “The Progressive
Society of Spiritualists ” of Utica, N.Y  80,00
A Lady Friend, Salem, Mass   6,00
Friend, Medfleld, Mass  10,00
J. J. Miller, Millerstown, Mo. .<  2,00
“Heliotrope,” Petaluma, Cal  5,00
W. V. Thompson, Pleasantville, Pa  2,00
F. A. Grove, M.D., Kirksville, Mo  2,00
E. Y. Johnson, Warren, B.1  2,00
J. Bisby, Hamilton, Ont.   ' 6,00
Jonathan Hatch, Easton, Me    2,00
Hugh Jones, Erie, Pa  2,00
Addison Kelley, Kelley's Island, Ohio  2,00
Mrs. E. R. Huntington, Kelley’s Island, Ohio 2,00
Hiram Frank, W. Bangor, N.Y  2,00
I. S. Carter, San Bernardino, Cal  2,50
A Lady Friend, San Bernardino, Cal  5,00
S. A. Morse, Philadelphia, Pa..    2,00
H.Anderman, New Philadelphia, Ohio   2,00
Thos. Gales Forster, N.Y. City  25,00
Walter Byren    2,00
Nathaniel Esty, E. Westmoreland, N.H  2,00
J. A. Barnes, Olympia, W.T  5,00
Mrs. A. A. Fordtram, Brenham, Tex   2,00
Chas. Livingston    5,00
Hannah Ketcham, Laur, 111  2,00
Sums under two dols. (320 subs.)   285,95
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
1 by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No," and two
mean “Doubtful," and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ’’ Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards' be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
A medium is usually a person of an impulsive, affectionate,
and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Mediums are of both sexes.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and
all the members of the circle are strongly bound together by
the affections, and are thoroughly comfortable and happy.
Family circles with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other
forms of mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appear¬
ance, while by sitting regularly two or three times a week the
manifestations will rapidly develope.
Among the varied phases of the phenomena already ob¬
served by investigators may be noted the following:—Move¬
ment of physical objects, both with and without contact with the
sitters ; direct writing, drawing, and voices; entrancement;
trance and inspirational utterance ; temporary materialisa¬
tions ; involuntary writing ; healing; visions; impressions;
as well as many phenomena observed in the study of mesmer¬
ism and clairvoyance.
Now Beady.—Fifty-seventh Year.
KAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC &
MESSENGER for 1877. Post free Seven Stamps; or,
with Ephermis, Thirteen Stamps.
London: Oatty and Dobson, 1, Ivy Lane, E.O.
WANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the book and newspaper trade; by E. W
Wallis, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described by
a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
