[Begisiueed as A Newspaper.]
. gp|| Vcii,
iv-.mr^t,r’ SK$ ta Srcal ffttfaim
- THE V*'S PtRrTflJjAMST ^ ' is';regularly on Sale .at. the following plages :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Pau^s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246;'^fouTfevaft
*afR C^phliifes^and 7,-;R}}e ’dg LiHpv 'LE^PfelG-:.^,.tLinitlehs.tr^sse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
-L4W£Sry:,^346* a'nd '347A Cors^. ^NAPJjE^,:'. ^rilish ^Readiing^^oo^sj^^, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite. the-Viila Nazionale. LIEGE :. 37, Rue Florimpnt..
••'* ByDA-PESTH-,: J p s efst jia dt*-Erz h ej-zhg,, 2^J Ailx'Sd e r G‘ ass?., [ ME O U RN E96, R'ussell-street. SHANGHAI :'Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK :
%2'4i'East,'Foufth-s*tree^.: 66'ST6Ff,<U:’Si;:^^Ioaii:l:t>rrtery^placey'and',i8f Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philpsophical Journal’.’ Office. RlEMPflfS'J-
V G.S'>.:'22j, (Union-stre^etf^ f^A^CT'SC^ Kearney-street.. .
...• IS^—'• * LQ-NIDON 1 FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER 15J .*1876. Published Weekly; Price 'fwopence.
orontent^
.Extra^d,xiaiy*^i^ittta/r'Mfei'festfttipn^flart!ftanohesteri.'' ’Bv» r?
• JW'illiarn0^1ey;:-iMd.y&to1^uf^.ot SSlidiCQb^ctsJj^ thb, >
-Light, :and the Appearance ;bf . Spirit. Hea&sr Hands; 2
*-J . Armb, and Spirit'Children ..V ■'{jkvU'ilifr
l^he Andrew Jackson Dayis Testimcnial Fund: ,vy
jii'Paris. '• Bj'.Tie C.drilte duTJullef .•••, /6,y
Bea^ii’.vC'lth Mr; Fitifi^trM.-Ptiiyij^;i,;i „v
i/^S|^rituallsrn i^i-4
;jTe'sn’in§5'al)wQ”,i@'l-vBdfi^sEKgdleiiiSin.s-. _.
‘Gnri^SiibirdAifcojr—I’bdS^lfltShfetiiwfe^fertijietftAWa^rd.;, :
?Spiri to , «
' ^®4u»lisni-iT\di.hou®Spil'ItiS33^^tThe-rNiti6hiij?,A's's^’ ^
^7' ‘c' ‘111 ipn^and; /U Official.*itdp^t1f,’#~,^re(fenbafigi£ttiisrf: > u
and SpirituairsuiiiFxp&rienfcfeS'Orffl-Seet—SpiirimaEsrti '■ .
and the Prees—Fcuans or ^Lat^s-' o£ ilature—Mr. C. E.
. WHlianos’S Fifth visit;to'Holiand^The-Turkish Atro-
*i. citieSj.'AppealXo Spiritualist^. j|,. ...i. ...,; ...   80
Spirit Poetry :—The.Secret of .'Will;f... s,   .<.• ... 84
Answers to Correspondents ... ...   ... ... ... 84
Paragraphs:—Organ'isatiOri j.mOng'.Sp7ritualists, 7o; Keeep-
; tion of New Ti'tftha,''77 tvFatrth Lffe ancl its Advantages,
■ 79; Notijicatiou of Death Rt a Disfance, 791 The firms,
dh Hallu6ina'nSu§-'^T;'T|^ ‘ <3tiajtige at Death^Sl^'Afi ..
Apparition-.A..»*#•»! •«.*
Mrs. weld ox’s orphanage.—
■; ‘^Grannie’s Nar sery Rhyme Book ” will be published -
as soon as Mrs. Welddn has obtained 500 subscribers at os.'. ;It
wilL.be illustrated, andyvill contaju thirty original tunes in all .
the different 'keys. .(The ■/Jiijiisifef Several of them are also •
originaK)’ Two- are-by fetg’SlIpjauod, also , a hymn at the
beginning of ths hook; PiS^jTOPif,’ Ch. Kawlings, &e., will
also contribute, but the .•greater'number are by “Grannie ”
herself. Mrs. WeldoiLsens' everything which is given her,jforf
the beneBt of the Orphanage. -Gifts of old blothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address,’-MrarWeldop, Tavistock Hpuse,
Tavistock-square, W.G; " ' '
East LONDON ..SPIRip AL AIEpINGlS^
LECTUfeES- giving information apout Sblritualisin-hre
delivered every Thursday evening-8j-.p-.ih., at.Mr.'Cbifinan’fi
Lecture' Rooms, 15,. St. Peter’s-roaiL Mi^rend. Inspirations 1
addresseR every Suftday evening, at Seveo o'blQ&k.LA’d'misBioii
Free. Supported by yoluntai’j'.gotftribuiiqnS. ’ .
E AST LGNDfDN SPIRITUAL A»>ETINGS.
'4-tMr.. Oogman’s usual. Quarterly Tfia Meetiog will be
held ph Sunday^.Octfbher Jst, gt^ .Eeter’s-road, MUe-end,
Teft'buiahle afffive o'clock.* ’ addfissibn, Is.
MRS. BASSETT, mm been left, by the
v sudden death pf her husband, in-upfayourable oircum-
stances, Mr. Arthur Colmau has kindly, cpns.ent.ed rto give, a*
Seance for her beuelit -on Wednesday next, .ihe -20th Jnst., at,
8 pm., at Xq.,8, Hpiibr Lgdfbrd-plaee,JRuSsbir-bicjjSar^j^Adniis-^
Bion, 5s. ' , ' - W. iL./v
■^/I'RSV 0LlYEi wishipg lo^eQB.tribu.te her-.
Tv.l_ mite t'b the relief oB’tMe'viOTims bf'Hm-l^tfe'-distu^bsEncbs-
in Turkey, and thinking thit Spii itualists will. ayaHrthemse.lvds
of ^any ocpscsibn- tbprove their sympatbyfwith ; sujerirfg^
humanity, will give !a Trance-8eahflfi at her- :residenee, ?te,--
Ainger-terrace,. King sHenry’s-road; N-Wm Rt 7 p.m. on'Wed- -
nesday; the 27th inst. '^AdiAissicm. r2&:!l5a.*'') THclrptB^o'anrbe
obtained in advaupe at the abpvetaduress. . .
BIRKBEGK ' BAXX;—Rslablisbea 1851.—
I 29 & 3Q, Sputhampton-buildtags, Chancery-lanb, W.C.
DEPOSITS received, at INTEREST for statfid.periods.or re¬
payable on demand. ‘On Current Accounts," Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. - Gheque BooksAupplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes Issued.- :.y iil?1
The Hank undertakes the oustodylbflSeeuritiesbf Custbmers,
arrd- the Collection of Bills -of Exchange,-Dividends;:; and
Coupons. Stocks ■ and. Shares purchased and sdl^’S.rid '
advances made thereon.. ■- • • ^ *
Office Hoiire from TO excepting,Saturdays, tnep^from '
TO to 2, On Mpndays.th.e Bank is .ppeh untilfl in The Evhii’iog.:
A Pamphlettiwith f iiljpartieulars, may he had on application.
I ,, ‘ FRANCIS EAVENS^KOFT,* Manager-.'
The trapped mrdium; or, the two
' CLEVER SCEPTIC.!. A pamphlet by Christian
It (timers.—This brochjtre~. cbB tains a" scries of illustratl'pns,
selling fotih the:excRif)g' adventures'- of Profesao'r.-'Pplfeiiule,
F R-S, X.Y.Z. B.l G.a.Ss"'., and his assi tant Df. iBrptoplaster,
in Rreir investigatiou bi Spiritual Phenomena.: It is;an excelr
lenblittie book-for distribution among scientific-men-and SIst-
believers in- Spiritualism generally. A lev lew-of ii'in The
/S^iVifnaffet-newspaper says that .the pamphlet .displays real
genius, ..JBjfioe .64L':- post free, 6^d. newspaper,
branch office.    „
j DA‘LSTQN..^SSQCTATI0-^;g® .INQ^IJiER^-
I -* SPliiritlALIS^ir ‘•1.’
I /«"aiudkct•wimrtJieiBvutpi N&UoriCil'Assggiatic^df^SpiniiuMists.’:
•V “ DSTBNCKiiN,':-ESQ.,. kKR.I;V •'
\ 'lBai'v5b^«kGEa<w,-.MienihetTof.Coijiiicil anddSpnorary Secretary*
| rfiqf£tOT|me Hefbrjn.and Codjflpatipnpf '••b;
'' '• the Law of 'Nations.) !- . * -"jL-.'--.
” , •yLt:pp%j.ctfI.i if. .-:. & Ur, *v •
;•. t Mr>Tnoma^)B|ytpil!. j > - MF*Rs?Pbmeroy.ir*efiweij; , •
14 '’"-MMf'ifilieltaSvprnf'efe'i?' afet'Tfi.diateMMKg'^ V^-'-*.,
I'.. . Ed^Sm Mw. l^.ThereSYWbpd, vr
j;- jbfiKtBlj&SdzhBafd,;-' Jolw I^Ml.se.'
15 )‘S3>ij<)j%8f/^c^p?,j5':aniir25;easMl^iv-fMR.’THOMAS Bijyto^. •
Vi-Z:Bodm74f5fAVARmolROAdfl)ALSTO,N, LONDON,-E.
' ' -ExtoactS proii Prospectus.
The .objects of this' Association are to collect well-authenticated
fafits afieetiug Spiritualism.; to offer facilities to.investigators; and,
4by Wnofft- means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinctty experimental stances are held)weekly.on Thursday-
:ev.enmgs, iat:f ,45 .u.m.‘to. whjeh Members tare admitted, as well
ias' hieinWers. 01 Similar' Assbelatioiii whicnf" reciprocate similar
;privileg$. 'Strangers esnt ohly-he* admitted to the ordinary stance
‘fneldibtf the first TMirsday^veniitg in each month, on introduction
jby a Member. The fet’ThM-aday evening in eachmonth is devoted
io' sbecial seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
'reiidihg; of papers, or narration'of experiences of investigators; to
iwmehdiffanger^ are admitted under the same regulations as are..'
ienfbrhed bn fhe^rst Thursday-evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
;with the’IftBrixton PsychologicaLiSociety,” are also placed at the
'dispose lof Sfembers of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
•of the-privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations. ’
lii addition' to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the-privilege qf .attending the public searives ’bt
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees) particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Hopprary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
^comprising numerous standard Works on Spiritualism and kindred
. .Subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
flgularfy supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
; The alliance existing between this association and the “Britislj
'.National Association of Spiritualists’’.will greatly assist the mem-
ibers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
TAfeSbciation was established in 1873 are the following,, viz.:
j * -** To aid students and inquirers' in their researches into certain
(phenomena, knowp .as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
(publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
Inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to'jcollect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
:at the Rooms of the. Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalstoii, E. A
stamped,addressed envelope should 'he enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies.'' Copies bf the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
diredtions “ how: to form spirit circles,” and cataloguerof .books in
the library, with any further infoimatipn; can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.: quarterly 3s. AH subscriptions payableip advance.
The quarterly payments-are due on the last day in the months
jof Mardh, Jdtie, Septembbr, and December respectively. -
L?/e -Persbhs approving of the purposes of
the Associaitibn,: and desirous of aiding the same, ban become
life jqembers outpayment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
^ANDREW: JACKSON DAVIS TESTI¬
MONIAL FUND.
Engl,! sir
Charles.Blackburn, Esq -
Alexander Calder, 'Esq.. < vj
Benjamin Coleman, fisq.-, *
-H.'Colleit'Esq; - “
fAhdrew' Glendinnihg, Esqj_
C O'M -MT T T E-E.- gittaifflM
William H. Harrison,.Esq.,-. S
Sir Charles Tsham, Bart.
B en rwLGJ ehcketl,; Esq.y M.Rtl.
J; N.‘ T. Marthezej Esq) '
Dr/George Sextod. :'
Widiam Tebb, Esq.
“ . Hirwi-ary Treasurer: 'i~'
, J. N. T!. MaxtfieigijlEsii.dlP, p|lmeira4quarj, Brighton,_
Jlonqrary- iSecretartyj^ , ,,
iMr. Thomas Blyton, 7S,t Navtarino-rodd, Dalston,'- London,
i •'i ' .-- -^ - List'fey Conteibutors'! . - ' . . , , 4
. ' T s. d.
J. N. T. Martheze  25 Q 0- ,
J Charles Blackburn  L......7vT>"v;"~‘v'20 0" ff 5
1 “ Nicodemus” I........ ••••.. ■ .. 10 10 Q
i WyHani Tebb, Esq   ,...!.,.'10;dd 0
; B. R. Harrison,-Esq ..4...Sfi' 3)- fi--
j Mrs. Catherine Berry ,,.... ;......v;;..'..,. 2 2 ‘ O'-
! Miss Ponder........t.... 1 1 '0*.
i Sir-Gharles Isham, Bart.J:'...1-1 0
| H, Qbilen, Esq.         . 1. -O-iO-T
i R. GlenlBnning, Esd...i..‘...K...-.i^,-;J)j.uJ1....;.;..v.V 1 -0 0-
j T. S.     v 0 TO 0 ;
■| The Committee earne’stl^'solicit further contributions to-.
■wards’lKis fund. Remitfahces'caAhe'fbrwardea'Yifber to Mrl
j. N, T. 'Marthoze, the hdu. treasurer, qT.jpjiI-r--Thc^nasBlyton,
hoy; sec.v
/ ^lARDli I .—FREE LIBRARY 1 ofScientific.
Vy- 'and Spifritual 'Literature, 157,- Bnte-roa'd, Cardiff. This.
Library is opened Free^- by- G. Sadler, Spiritmtiist,i'or tif® loan :
0f books, and having^praeetl'for this pft'POSe thb'Tvholb of his
private-ltbrary, ::;consistttigbOf'. 100 bbSksbandBpafn'phletS-':to;
Commence,with, he wqula thank fr-iands tQ.assigtdiim by tl;c
gift or loan ofc'hoofei),assuring them Ihivt sucF are npeded in
O'ard iff, wfieredhegpopufatipn is 'neariy 80,000, and vpry littla
is-'known of the ‘great' truths of-Bpiritualism; - A-ddress;'G;.
^adler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff, *; r “ - -
: BRITISH NATIONAL , AGS 0 CI ATI ON
, OF SPIRITUAtrSTg!
H ' ;3% greAt •. EiissifiiL street, w.o ,. ■
./ ' ‘ t Agend-*- fo^ September, 1876. '' . -j
| vTsLAExpeidmental Research Committee, afr»6.30-.
«- p.m.
. Tues'dap, Sth.-r-Sairee Committee,’at OlsO-pum.
Ifidai, 8<A4-^e««fa Committee at F p.ih. . «.
‘ / i'^Pkrimb'ntal'ReapaixslfeCqmmittAe, at, 6.30
'■1 ‘ .ef.jp.m.;• V I'*
v T^ff^tFi»arice’Commit,ta^a.t.5’.Wp.TO. s >;. , :!v
12 v.: ■ -,' H• '. ';''u)'’Cbfredporftle'flce ComibitteeLat'w|>-m», V
MBHTiNnlicteSdp.ritl,. ' •
I l-^saWqg^LS^-^Hoi^ei aud, Offees(iJomrumee, at B p in.
' ;'^x^rime’btal’R'egeairch trommittee, at 6;30
p.m.-
Wednesday, 20t^;—Library. Committee, at 6 30 p.m.
bFVfdai/jYSKd;—Correspondence Committee, at,6 p.m,.. .:
„• Experimemai Research, Committee, at 6.80
p.m. ,
'3?«esday,' 26tt.—BorVee Committee, at C;8(B|).ib; ' ■ "
TJriday,_2dt/i.—jSeance Comaittee, at 6 p.na. ' ,
• tGJ ' Experimental Research Committee, at'6B0:'
p.m. ,
Members of Council and Committees are retested to attend
the meetings mentioned in the above list ^itfi^jffqitiiSV'nbtice.
They will be further advised of any special fijeelinga which it
may be necessary to convene during fha monflL .'*•
Committees
Experimental Research ,vGk' Fitz Gerald,
M.S.Tel.E. (Chairman), Mr. G;'F/WartiipF.R.S'; ■ Mr. W. H.
Coffin, Dr. O.'Oai ter Blake, Mr. '.Lljil. .Guijy, M D.. Mr W. H.
Harrison, Mr. p C. Massey, Rev Wi Neywtnld Mr. E. DaWson
Rogers, Mr. R. Hannah, Mr. Geoj-g^King, Mr. H. Withall,
Mr. J. W. Gray, Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A,', Mr. Bdmands, ;
Mr. Ivimey. - ».
Finance Committee—Morell Theobald (Chairman), Mr.
Martin R. Smith, Mr. Alex. Calder. < - ' • •
Rouse and. Offices Committee—Mr. Algernon .loy (Chairman),
Mr.Everitt, Mrs. Maltby, Mr. A. Calder, Mrs. D, Fitz-Geraid, Mr
E. T. Bennett, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers.
Soiree Committee—Mrs. D. Fitzgerald, Mrsi Maltby. Hiss, H.
Witball, Mr. Ldmands, Mrs. Edma- ds, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers.
Library'Committee—Mr. E. Dawson Rogers (Chairman) Rev.
W. Newtihuld Dr. Carter Blake. Mr. D. Kitz-Gerald.
H. Seance'Committee^—Mr. G. R. Tapp. Mr. D. FitZrGerald, Dr,
K.-Cook, Me. H. Witha 1, Mr. Edmands.
Correspondence Committee.—Mr. A" Calder (Chairman), Mr. E.
Dawson Rogers, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. A. Joy!
PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
. ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS. : ./
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its .body, the Council of tbe British Natinpal Asspqiatich of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer t wo prizes; the first'eonsieting
of a gold medal or £20; the second of £10, for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Motal and
Religious' Condition of Socie'y.” ', t
■ The conditions were that the competiuon should he open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and fuitherto
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in Engl sh.
j The following gentleaen were kind epough to consent to
’adjudiAafe upon "the ‘merits‘of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist and F.R.G.S,;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the ngm de plume of
M- A(,;0xon.> Mr- J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith,
i ©f-th e e*:sayd gent in, the two which have-been printed were
^eleqted hy the jtidges as worthy of the first and second prizes;
respectively, by reason of theif,logical and literary merits; but
the Cbttncil of th'e Association, theugfi it'has undertaken there
publicadQU, holds Itself fi^. from ail responsibility for the
views of the writers. : 1
: aMeJgpBHBMWfe by Misb Anna Blackwell, is in course of
trauslatidn'into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
j Can be,;ordered of .Mr. W. H. Harrison, .38, Great Russell-
Street; Bloomsbury, London, 'W-.G. ,Brice ls. l)d., po8t free.
TPIIIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
•IT ASSOCIATION OF SPIRI t'UALj'^Ts.-—The Prize Es-
(§ftys on the Probable Effect of Spifituaiism-on the Social; Moval,
and Religious Condition of Society.are now on sale, and may
he ‘obfained at the Rooms of thb AsSo'diitibh, 38,;GreatRussell-
Strtet. and of 'Mr.' E. W. Allen,■ H, Ave Maria iane, priee Is.j
-post, is; IJd; ..... : pd-p
' TT. TBEllTY: IIALL,i9);Cfiurcli-street, Islinff-
I ~A tori.-Weekly ii9e«necs, &c.) 'Sundays.- Healing, at 11 a m.,.
• $erv-lceat Jdi.na. Tuesday, &p..q>.; Is. Friday, at
8 Am-‘Fdn-sufcacribersV Is., i Ba^uyd^r,; Development Olass’at
• 8 p.m. j.subscribers only., ^ fe r-o V..; . ; i
if EIGH SPIRITUALISTS5, ; ASSOCIATION
J MEETING. B,o8&.?-Any bboksi'and pamphlets relative
to S-piritualism will be tlrahk|uH'y rec ?iyed* and d uly aekno w~
Jedged for the above Assdcialfibn'Room, by George F. Turney,
prbwn-ig.treet, Leigh, Lancashire; ^ . -j. •
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sept. 15, 1875,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP j
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander C alder, Esq., I, Hereford-square.iyest Brompton, S.W»
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex^
N.AV.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougail, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W..
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.It.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Xslington-sq.^
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build- j
ings, E.C.
Kamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Kogers, 15. D., Hose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin B., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W. |
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra^ |
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council. I
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper. |
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S-W. |
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward.!’., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Eeigate. j
Binney, F A., 22, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gavdens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Eev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth. I
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Hichmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall,ltichmond-hiU.
Cooper, R.j Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black- j
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Gheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North, j
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton, 3
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-creseent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E , Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, PIaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-plaee, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. War wick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Hichard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, M rs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
r>ac, S'E
Stra vbrdge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken- \
sington, S.W.
Strawbrldge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. Ml 62, Granville-park, Blackheaih, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W..
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdj€ Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„ New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan.New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr, Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 26, Leipsic, Germany.*
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooldyn, New York,
'U.S.A. ’
M, F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Snear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia.U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5,Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq_, 2, Rue de Rocroi. Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de I’Cnion, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Baysw'ater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Musee des Beaux Arts, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Newlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff'Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St;
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Ever ton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
toe practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876. \  
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Arc, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, toy the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rpHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
X GEORGE SEXTON, LL D„ etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the Iherature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
polony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATOHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &c.
Chief Office: 47, Crawford Street, Bryanston
Square, W,
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-kuown Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
And DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship French spoken. At
home Mondays, Wednesdays, and Saturdays. Private
Seances attended. Address 90, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, W.C.
Notice.—Physical seances with a first-class medium held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
by introduction, Fee 5s. Arrangements may also be made
for private physical seances.
T T. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
£i' • in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
ISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dipsomania-, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. jEI per visit (within threa miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.C.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatment by clair¬
voyant. Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and other phases as
usuab Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, but Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Alnger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station)..
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
can he engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham¬
stow.
]\/TISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
_Lv American Somnambulist, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Horns, 1 till 8 p.m Terms, one guinea.
Miss Fowler does not reply to correspondence, nor see visitors
on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square,
London, W.C.
MRS. BURKE is about to hold PUBLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8 o’clock; to commence on Friday, tne 15th
inst. E. W. Wallis, medium for trance communications. Other
seances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance for refined physical manifestations, with a first-class
medium, will be held on the Wednesday evenings of each
week, for a few weeks only. Fee 5s.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue Sc. Honord,
Paris.
Mediumship | its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet contaiuing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own hemes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
X>SYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION FOR THE
JL CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
- is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTHLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, Briti-h National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, Magnetic Healers, and
Mediums.—To Let, FURNISHED APARTMENTS.
Also for evening seances. 26, Southampton-row, Holborn, W.C.
(A GOD CHAMBERS
\JT APARTMENTS to LET.
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
or FURNISHED
Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet and pantry ;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6$
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI-
IO CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
EXTRAOKDINAKY SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN
MANCHESTER.
BY WILLIAM OXLEY.
I fokward a report of a series of meetings I have had
with Dr. Monck, which I give without comment, leaving
the facts, as narrated, to speak for themselves, and from
them the readers of The Spiritualist will draw their own
conclusions. All, or nearly all, took place in good light, by
which I mean there was quite sufficient light from a gas jet for
us to see distinctly, and, with one exception—that is, when
the second of the three materialised infant forms appeared—
all expressed themselves as being perfectly satisfied, so far
as the sense of sight was concerned, and that it was impossible
to be misled by optical illusion.
Not a single condition was imposed, further than a request
from the medium that all would keep perfectly still while
the phenomena were taking place, and that the figures
should not be touched without permission. The report of
each seance I drew up after the conclusion of each, so the
facts were perfectly fresh in my memory. Much more took
place than I have recorded, but to give details of all would
take up much more space in your columns than I should
care to ask for. I have, therefore, selected the most promi¬
nent facts, and present them in the form of reports, as
follows :—
MOVEMENTS OF SOLID OBJECTS IN THE LIGHT, AND THE APPEARANCE OF SPIRIT
HEADS, HANDS, ARMS, AND SPIRIT CHILDREN.
Monday evening, Aug. Ql%th, 1876.—Seance in good gas
light—A lady present took off her boots, and, placing them
under, the table, requested that they might be removed.
While every hand was distinctly visible on the table, a
spirit hand touched several of the sitters about the feet;
one of the boots was then put on the lap of one lady,
and the other on the lap of the other lady; they
were then thrown out on the floor, away from the table
where all were sitting, and we saw the two boots moving
a distance of two or three feet without any feet in them,
and no one touching them.
Dr. Monck next placed three hand-bells about nine inches
away from him, and putting his hands on the table, the
centre bell began to oscillate; lifting itself up, it began to
ring, and then dropped again on the table; this was re¬
peated several times.
A small musical box without case was wound up by
invisible agency, and immediately began to play, stopping
and starting as requested.
A double folding slate with cover was lying on the table.
Dr. Monck took it up and cleaned it, then requested some of
the company to repeat the operation. He next placed a
small crumb of pencil within the folds, and requested one of
the ladies to hold it under the table, he touching it with
his hands for a moment. She held it for about a minute,
and then opening the slate, a message of thirty-five words
was found upon it, addressed to the lady. This was repeated
again, when a message of fifty-six words was written to
myself. I then took the slate, and put it under the table,
keeping it in the left hand. Immediately I felt a hand
gently patting mine ; it took the slate away for a moment
and returned it, placing it in my hand. On opening the
slate I found a message written on the fourth, previously
unoccupied, side of the slate, and in answer to my mental
question. In this instance Dr. Monck’s hands never touched
the slate, and none but myself and the spirit hand had any
contact with it. I was then requested to place my chair on
the table, and to sit upon it. The table was then lifted
about three inches, and came down on the floor on all fours.
The next phenomenon was, I think, the most interesting
of all. It was the appearance of a beautiful infant’s right
hand and arm, white as the purest snow. After rising
above the edge of the table between the medium and the
next sitter (who saw part of the form and drapery mate¬
rialised), the hand took a bell from the table, and rang it
several times, then placed it in the hands' of the medium.
Several other articles were placed in its hand, and we saw the
fingers bend and firmly hold them, after which it dis¬
appeared. Next came a head with a black band on, showing
the top part, with the eyes and the hair; then it disappeared.
Finally, we saw a feminine hand fully developed, of beautiful
symmetry, and flesh-coloured; after giving a symbol known
to gome of the sitters, it also disappeared.
The gas was now ordered to be turned out, and (every
hand being joined, and the medium held by the two who sat
next him), a luminous object became visible, appearing as a
breastplate, with twelve squares, about an inch each way;
this floated about very near to us, and then sank to the floor
and disappeared. Next came a closed hand, showing the
fingers and thumb; this also floated near to us, and then
disappeared; finally, the large musical box was started by the
invisibles, and then deposited on my arms; and when the
gas was lit, it was found with the glass lid open, and two of
the small bells inside.
Tuesday evening, August %§th.—Light seance.—The light
from one gas jet allowed us to see every object very dis¬
tinctly.
My Mordan’s pencil being laid in the middle of the table,
it rose at one end and moved as if in the act of writim’.
Then it rose, and was suspended in a horizontal position, and
the point descended until the pencil remained poised at an
angle of 45 degrees, and replied to our questions by tilting
in the usual way. This phenomenon continued for about ten
minutes. A small musical box without case was then placed
in the centre of the table; when it was wound up, it played
and stopped according to request. Then commenced a slow
march of the box across the table, keeping pace to the speed
of the tune, and arriving at the edge of the table it seemed
as if pausing to consider “ what next!” when Mr. Marsh
put his hand out and it gently rolled over into his hand.
The distance traversed was twenty-one inches, and the
journey occupied about four or five minutes.
Dr. Monck now became controlled by the spirit Samuel,
who told us he was about to give us something that would
astonish us, and that we must follow his instructions-by each
writing his name on a card; we were then to place it with a
pencil in the centre of the table, and to cover it with a hand¬
kerchief. His medium was to be enveloped in a sheet.
This being done, Samuel asked each what they would like to
have written. Considerable merriment was afforded in this
experiment, as all felt perplexed what to say, being so
suddenly called upon. We had to reply as best we could
upon the spur of the moment. Samuel said, “ That will do ;
say no more;” and after coming to the last, he said, “ It is
done.” The medium then took the sheet off, and touching
the kerchief said he could not find the card, but requested
me to feel, when I distinctly felt a firm hand, and putting
my hand under the kerchief the card was placed in my
fingers. I then saw that the card had been placed in a sealed
envelope. Cutting it open I took out the card and read out
five sentences, being the very words each sitter had used in
; answer to Samuel’s question; the first had six words, the
| second five words, the third three words, the fourth five
| words, and the fifth six words. The signature “Samuel”
I was at the bottom.
Here was a most astounding test. We saw the kerchief in
| the centre of the table, and moving all the while the writing
! was going on. The medium was sitting motionless, com-
| pletely enveloped in a large sheet, so that he was powerless,
j We noticed that not a muscle moved, and he was eighteen
i inches away from the kerchief. With a test such as this, if
% jytjtti&i til ilfij Jsrjtijtttij rntlt Jiflup ol jUpiffualratt.
Voiujvie Nijse. Number Seven.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER ISth, 1876.
74
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 15, 1876.
any doubts still remain with the investigator, then there is j
only one more problem left to deal with, and that is the !
doubter himself.
Amongst the marvels which we witnessed none were more
striking than the display of hands. Dr. Monck was quite
conscious all the time, conversing with us.
The first hand was an infant’s, a little larger than the one
that appeared last evening, and not the least surprising part
was the alteration in size during the appearances, for this
manifestly occurred in several instances. After the hand ap¬
peared above the cross edge of the table, it rose higher, reveal¬
ing a beautiful arm. A small bell was then placed on the
edge of the table, and the little hand grasped the bell, took it
under the table and began to ring it; then a feminine hand of
very fine proportion appeared with the infant’s, and moved
the fingers and thumb to show that they were flexible. Next
a third hand, flesh-coloured, appeared, repeating the move¬
ments of the fingers; then a large male hand showed itself,
and finally a hand partly transparent, the three middle
fingers only being solid. I was immediately struck with the
appearance of this hand, and gazing most intently for a few
seconds, I said, “ That is my father’s hand.” Immediately it
responded by touching the table three times, and three loud
knocks on the floor verified my assertion. There was a
peculiarity about the finger nails that arrested my attention,
and it was this that enabled me to recognise it as the hand of
my late father. I am quite certain none at the table knew
anything of this, as they never saw him in earth-life.
A wooden-bottomed kitchen chair was placed at the un¬
occupied side of the table, and Dr. Monck told me to place
my foot on his right foot, while the left leg and foot were
stretched out so that he could not move it without being
seen. All hands were placed on the table. The chair began
to rear itself up, then made a jump, and came with the seat
on the table. This was repeated five times and at the sixth
attempt it came right on the table. When it was placed on
the floor again, it turned itself topsy-turvey and came up
with the legs first; then making a jump deposited itself on
the table, the medium seizing it as soon as it was on. Being
placed on the floor again it moved to the sofa and back, and
then presented one of its legs to Mr. Marsh, who was sup¬
posed to shake hands with it.
I omitted to state that just before the chair experiments,
a second bell was taken by the feminine hand, also a third
bell was taken by the large hand, and quite a concert was
kept up under the table, the three ringing together, and
finally they were given to three of the sitters by the hands
which were distinctly felt by those who received the bells
from our spirit visitors.
Wednesday evening, August 30^, 1876.—Light seance.—
At this sitting, the small bell in the centre of the table was
particularly lively: the u Fairy bells” also sounded many notes,
while the strings were turned to the table. The small hand
was plainly shown; and, as I sat next to Dr. Monck, I had the
opportunity of closely inspecting it, and was allowed to touch
it ; the fingers were milkwarm and flexible, and beautifully
formed.
At this point, a sceptical gentleman, who attended the
seance for the first time, asked permission to leave his seat,
and to go and grasp the hand; this being declined, he left
the room in disgust; his departure was a decided gain to the
rest of the eight visitors, for, immediately after he left, the
manifestations became much stronger, especially the motions
of the chair, which was plainly seen by all to rise up to the
level of the table, and then make a bound of three feet.
A gentleman declared the chair phenomenon to be the
most convincing test he ever witnessed, and that the seance
was most satisfactory to him, as, with the medium in full
view, the phenomena took place in good light, so that it was
plainly discernible that frauds was simply impossible.
Thursday evening, August' ZXst.—The circle this evening
being composed of select spirits, the manifestations were of
superior'quality, and, taken asn whole)v%ere more remarkable
than any I had- previousJy :TSRitp6sse|3:.',“ 'r.
' The sis visitors'were'a§sbnibled 'ahd ;#ai'tmg'Hn the room
when Dr. Monck - made hjs appearance:; ^m^de'e'di^ft^everjy
case,'the room., ? with 'its
visitors to examiue or,do a^ they like^iwith. ‘ I niehtion
to'dispose of the vulgar ihsimiation^bf ‘tricker/, krid to meok ■
j|j! the charge of self-delusion not unfrequently made by those
j| who have never witnessed spiritual phenomena, and who,
|| without a particle of evidence, have quite settled it to their
>] own (if not to others) satisfaction, that all is imposture,
jf On our being seated at the table, the gas was turned a
H little lower to modify the glare, but with quite sufficient light
)j to let us see every object in the room distinctly. A good
11 sized slate was lying on the table, and Dr. Monck (to whom
(I I sat opposite) told me to take it up, clean it, show it to all
! assembled, and then to hold it under the table with my right
11 hand; I did so, and, beginning to count, I had got to nine,
)j when Dr. Monck said, “ I think it is done.” On bringing
11 it up, I found one side and part of the other covered with
I writing, containing a message of eighty words. This most
| extraordinary experiment was accomplished in nine seconds,
| and certainly the medium did not touch the slate at all, for
I his hands were on the table, in full view, and he sat quite
II motionless. As soon as I put the slate under the table, I
(j felt most distinctly the fingers of a hand gently touch my
| hand all over; it then took the slate from me for about half
j the time I was counting, and then returned it, again touching
j and stroking my hand.
U My pencil was placed on the table and we saw it begin to
j| move; when it was raised it floated in a horizontal position
j| an inch above the table and maintained that position
n while I counted thirty. The experiment of the writing on the
I marked card was repeated.
j Now followed the most astounding display of what I must
I call spiritual power, that I have yet witnessed. Dr. Monck
| requested the lady who sat to his right to place her foot
! upon his right foot, and his left leg and foot were stretched
II out from the table in full sight of us all; his hand were on
[| the table. Immediately. the form of a beautiful female
j infant appeared to his left, about a foot from the medium ;
11 it was clothed in white with a hood on its head. After
j stretching out its right hand to Dr. Monck, who took it in his
j left hand, it laid its head on the table. Every feature was
[| most distinctly visible, and we could even distinguish the
| colour of the eyes, which were blue; the figure then de-
| scended and came up on the other side of the table, and re-
peating this four times it disappeared,
j Next came the figure of a male infant, who could not bear
?j such a strong light as the other, so after turning the gas a
|j little lower, it appeared again, and we saw that it had a
|| crown on the head ; the countenance was of a light olive hue.
11 After coming up three times it disappeared.
>! Next came a third figure, a female infant of smaller size
11 than the first, with a close fitting white hood on the head, and
)j with the eyes closed. Grazing for a while on this beautiful
(j form, I said, “ I recognise the form, consequently the eyes
(I should open,” when instantly the eyes opened revealing a
(j pair of bright blue sparkling eyes, and the little form nodded
Vi assent l?y touching the table three times. I then asked if
(j the whole form was materialised, as we, sitting on the other
)j side of the figure, could only see the head, hands, arms,
(j shoulders and bust, and the medium said it was, even to the
n feet. I replied 1 should like to see the feet, when immediately
jj a lovely infant’s left foot and leg were put up, and stayed while
yj we all had a good look at them.
?! Friday Evening, Sept. 1st, 1876.—Many of the above-
>! named experiments were repeated, and one of the sitters
yi placed a slate under the table, the medium not touching it,
?i and in about half a minute a message was written, containing
ji thirteen lines, with seventy-five words. The medium then
y| placed a small folding slate on my head, touching it with
« his finger only for a moment. (I had cleaned the slate, and all
j saw there was nothing on it.) I counted three and on open-
y| ing the slate the following writing was seen in a beautifully
?! neat hand —
?! All hail! Watchman, what of the night? The night passeth and the
y j morning cometh. Lo, the time of the singing of birds has come!
V Ignorance, bigotry, credulity, selfishness must be smitten with the living
?! light and perish. The beasts of prey must no more trouble the sons Of
(! men. Truth shall Wave its sunbeams in.the window, and,earth shall have
)! its eternal jubilee. Immortality has become the heritage of men.—Sl.
|i'j After the writing, I was told to sit on a chair removed
|! from the company, when holding my hands up, the medium
ji touched my fingers with his, and I was raised up from the
m»5. flo6r a foot, and was actually • suspended in the air for a few
Sept. 15, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
75
seconds, sitting on the chair, but the chair resting on—
nothing. In this case what about the law of gravitation ?
There is no mistake about the fact, for six others besides my¬
self witnessed this phenomenon in a good light.
65, Bury New-road, Higher Broughton, Manchester.
THE ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS TESTIMONIAL FUND.
The following circular in relation to the above fund has
just been issued:—
English Committee.—Charles Blackburn, Esq.; Alex¬
ander Calder, Esq.; Benjamin Coleman, Esq.; H. Collen,
Esq.; Andrew Glendinning, Esq.; William Tebb, Esq.;
William H. Harrison, Esq.; Henry D. Jencken, Esq.,
M.R.I., &c.; Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; J. N. T. Martheze,
Esq.; Dr. George Sexton, and James Burns, Esq. Honorary
Treasurer—J. N. T. Martheze, Esq., 20, Palmeira-square,
Brighton. Honorary Secretary—Mr. Thomas Blyton, 72,
Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The numerous published works of Andrew Jackson Davis,
many of which were dictated by him while in the trance state,
or in a condition of spiritual illumination, have done much
to promote beneficial social reform and freedom of religious
thought wherever the English language is spoken; and as
they have not proved a source of pecuniary profit to him,
the present well-deserved Testimonial is calculated to relieve
him from many anxieties.
The following letter from Andrew Jackson Davis, addressed
to the American Committee, explains his position :—
“My Esteemed Friends,—Owing to your perfectly dis¬
interested wishes in my behalf, I feel measurably justified
in writing briefly in answer to your kindly inquiries con¬
cerning my situation and circumstances.
“ Having read the Magic Staff, you will recall the part
so admirably performed by 1 Katie,’ daughter of the Hon.
James De Wolf, of Bristol, Rhode Island, in securing the
publication of Nature's Divine Revelations, and in the
earliest efforts to spread before the world a true knowledge
of our spiritual philosophy. Her conversion from the Roman
Catholic Church to the divine principles of nature was com¬
plete. One of the first fruits of that conversion was her
constant irrepressible desire to promote universal human
progress by the bestowal of every dollar at her command
upon my personal efforts. Her expression was, ‘ Every
dollar left me by my father’s will was earned by slaves on
the Cuba plantations, and I can never rest until it is spent
in promoting human liberty and progress.’ But her financial
resources were hardly sufficient, during her lifetime, to
support her in the style to which she had been accustomed
from childhood ; hence, although she greatly simplified her
methods, and denied herself very nobly in many particulars,
I never knew what it was to be free from pecuniary anxiety
and embarrassment. After her departure to the summer-
land there ensued some ten years of expensive litigation
relative to the division of the residuary estate of Mr. De
Wolf, which was the only part of his immense wealth that
J Katie’ could leave to me and for my use. About the end
of the •? Great Rebellion ’ the decree of the Court was favour¬
able, and very soon I came into possession of the few thou¬
sand dollars which, after litigation, remained to her.
“ With these funds I at once proceeded to purchase and
gather together all the stereotype-plates of my volumes, then
owned by some three or four different publishers. Some of
these plates I could not obtain without legal efforts: these books,
therefore, I carefully revised and enlarged, and then re¬
stereotyped, and thus gradually developed a uniform list.
These expenses, and the payment of debts contracted during
our efforts with the Herald of Progress and other enterprises
in New York, entirely absorbed all the funds received from
Rhode Island. I did all this strictly in accordance with
‘ Katie’s ’ often expressed wish, which was also in harmony
with my own sense of right. The last fifty dhllars of her
slave-earned money I handed to Mr. Wendell Phillips, to use
in efforts for liberty one year previous to the dissolution of
the American Anti-Slavery . Society. I mention this merely
to emphasize the fact that I was in earnest in executing, what
I had reason to believe were her strongest wishes. ‘;
“ A few years since my bodily health became perioU&Sy
impaired, so that I found myself disqualified for platform
|| speaking; also it was necessary that I should avoid taxing
I my vocal organs even in conversation. Therefore I became
silent, and have up to this time, with reluctance and by
| an exercise of will-power, remained steadfastly ‘ on the
| retired list.’
“ Thus all income from platform lectures was cut off; and
j the sale of my works was so moderate as to furnish only very
j limited means, and to render it unwise and impracticable for
| me to write and publish any new books. Hence, wishing to
j maintain ‘ the glorious privilege of being independent,’ and
| above all, desiring to render some service to humanity, we
| embarked upon the modest enterprise located at No. 24,
| East Fourth-street, New York.
“But it is undeniable that such enterprises are, in the
I best of times, far from remunerative. Therefore, we have
| been enabled to continue our business during the three years
I of silent ‘panic’ throughout the financial world, only by
j methods of industry, by simplicity of life, and by the bene-.
| factions of certain tried, and true, and dearly beloved personal
| friends. A. J. Davis.
I “ New York, April 18th.”
The English committee, formed to act in conjunction with
j that in America in raising funds to purchase a life annuity
| for Andrew Jackson Davis, feel confident that an appeal to
| the Spiritualists of this country will meet with that hearty-
! and generous response which the occasion calls for.
Although an American, Andrew Jackson Davis, who by
| his works has laid one of the foundation stones of Spirit-
| ualism, belongs to the world at large; and it would certainly
j not be to the honour of Spiritualists to allow one so de¬
servedly famous to suffer neglect at their hands; for which
reason the committee hope that English Spiritualists will
show their appreciation of Andrew Jackson Davis’ works by
| contributing as largely to the fund as their means will allow.
I shall be happy to acknowledge the receipt of any contri¬
bution you or your friends may kindly forward.
Thomas Blyton, Honorary Secretary.
The following contributions have already been received:
C. B., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq., £50; Thomas Grant,
| Esq., £10 10s.‘; J. N. T. Martheze, Esq., £25; Charles Black-
| burn, Esq., £20; William Tebb, Esq., £10 10s.; P.- R.
j Harrison, Esq., £3 3s.; Mrs. Catherine Berry, £2 2s.; Sir
| Charles Isham, Bart., £1 Is.; Miss Ponder, £1 Is.; H. Collen,
Esq., £1; “Nicodemus,” £10 10s.; Alex. Calder, £5; A.
| Glendinning, Esq., £1; Miss Kislingbury, 10s. 6d.; and
I S. T., 10s. '  M
Organisation among Spiritualists.—Professor R. G. Eccles, in the
course of an article in The Banner of Light on organisation, says:—
iJ “ Another journey we will take. This time down to the churchyard,
nj A fresh grave is opened, where the corpse had been deposited but a
| ? i week. What are the contents of that coffin ? Open it and learn 1
ill Whew ! Why do you stand aghast, and hold your noses thus ? ’Tis
Ij the same matter that a few weeks ago displayed the wisdom of a sage,
or the beauty of a Venus. What has wrought the change 1 It is
i answered in a word : Disorganisation! The offensive odours of the
compost heap, the death distillations of miasma, and the horrors of
I the valley of Hinnom are the only enchantments that can allure the
| soul to a reckless individualisation of molecules. In this universe of
Sours, I assert, organisation is the sole •producer of beauty, worth, and
j purity, while disorganisation is a synonym of corruption and rotten-
I ness. Deny it who can! Organisation is life, work, and activity;
| disorganisation is death and inactivity for good. This seems harsh
| language, but is it any more rash than true, where we can the most
fully watch their respective workings ? Organisation, too, is union,
while disorganisation is disunion. In union only can be found strength,
i An organised army of a few hundred soldiers can rout a mob of a
I million, and in the exact ratio of perfection of organisation so is its
strength. You have all doubtless heard the anecdote of the father
j who, wishing to impress this truth upon his sons, bade them procure
I for him two bundles of equal numbers and sizes of withes. The tirst
bundle was parted and each individual withe broken by itself; the
| second they tugged in vain to break, all the members of that bundle
being united together as one. Here, then, we can picture our own
condition as compared with that .of the foes we have to meet in the
! battle of truth. We are to-day in the exact condition of a wild, reck-
j less mob, while they have the discipline, and organised perfection that
I a thousand years’ experience has forced upon them. Can we not be
I wise and profit by their example ? Let the Spiritualists of America
| pause and consider carefully these stern facts. Ou every page of the
j sacred Bible thinkers all revere—the Bible of Nature—a panegyric is
| written in' behalfrpf united effort, while the stamp of disgrace and
hideousnessjliangs qs a foul blot upon all disunion and senseless indi-
I vidualis&ti6{). , P%11 you,, at this propitious hour, choose infamy, or
L honour ? Mark ft well; these are the alternatives, or I have read
i that book to little purpose.”
76
THE SPIRiTTTALIST. Sept. 15, 1876.
A SEANCE IN PARIS.
BY LE COMTE BE BULLET.
A friend of mine, Mr. Boyarcl, an ingenious chemist, who
resides at Brussels, recently came to spend some days in
Paris, and called on me, desiring to he present at one of my
private seances, to which I consented with pleasure. The
first day, the weather being very stormy, we had no result,
and we arranged to meet again on Saturday morning, the
2nd September. The manifestations being then very satis¬
factory. pleased my friend greatly, as he takes great interest
in spiritual facts. One of the spirits, Mathilde, raised the
curtain of the cabinet, and showed herself at full height.
My friend, through me (as he does not speak English) asked
her to show her foot, which she did with perfect ease. She
was then asked to float; she did so in a most graceful
manner, draped in her beautiful white garment. I next
asked her to diminish her size, which she often does for me.
She proceeded to do so gradually, until her beautiful head
rested on the floor. This last fact interested my friend very
much.
The light was then put out. John King came as usual,
said he had done down all he could for my friend, and
addressing me, he said: “ Tell your friend that if he had
been at Brussels he might have had a chance of getting a
seance, for my medium, Williams, was there, and gave a
very good one, and I manifested pretty well.” My friend
replied: “ I am going back to Brussels the day after to¬
morrow; I will seek for Williams, and try to have a seance^
John then said : ff He is not there now ; he has gone back
to the Hague.” The inquirer asked if the seance had taken
place at the rooms of the Spiritual Society, he replied : “ No ;
it was a private one.” After the sitting, I took leave of my
friend, and thought no more of what had been said.
In the evening I went for my Spiritualist, and looking
over it I saw “ Manifestations at Brussels through the
mediumship of Mr. Williams.” I read the article, and saw
that what John King had said was perfectly true, and that
the circumstances could be recorded as a good proof of his
trustworthiness. None of us had previously the least idea
that Mr. Williams had been at Brussels and given a seance
there..
Paris, September 4th, 1876.
SEANCES WITH MR. FIRMAN IN PARIS.
BY THE HON. J. L. O’SULLIVAN, FORMERLY AMERICAN MINISTER AT THE COURT j
OF PORTUGAL.
You and your readers will be pleased to know that this is the
last letter with which they and you will be troubled for some time, from ]1
you and their friend undersigned. Before your next issue I shall pro- 1 ]
bably be sea-sick on the unkind waves of the Atlantic, ever unkind, j (
even though they rocked my first cradle. My next letter to you will |i
probably.be dated from the shores of the milder Pacific. Anyhow, ]]
wherever winds and waves may bear me, I shall always regard myself i i
as a special volunteer and friendly correspondent of The Spiritualist, and \ i
shall send you, from time to time, anything falling in my way which j
may seem to me worth your printing and their reading. j (
Before I am off, I want, in the first place, to give a general leave- <!j
taking to many Spiritualist friends to whom I have no time to write | J
individually, or to whom I have been {mea maxima culpa), a shock- b
ingly bad correspondent. But I am sure we shall meet kindly and |l
affectionately in the next world, even if not again in this.
In the second place, I must give you a few general notes about the j i
private seances I have been attending, almost daily, in Paris, with the !1
Count de Bullet, an American friend (a distinguished public man and | (
lawyer), and occasionally some of the ladies of our respective families, ! i
through the mediumship of Firman and his nice little wife, and generally |1
at his apartment, though often at our own houses. I might fill all your I (
columns with interesting details of these seances, but I have as little the i i
time as you the space, or your readers the patience, for all that, i1
A circle so small, so harmonious, and so persistent, is usually apt to get j |
very good results ; and so it has been with us. At the same time I must 11
say that Firmans mediumship is not what I would describe as powerful i
and reliable. Causes comparatively slight weaken or suspend it, such as
a slight indisposition, mental disquietude, his wife’s confinement,
conditions of the atmosphere, or the disturbing effect of his having
attended other seances at which he has been acted upon by a class of j
spirits of a different order from those usually coming to our seances, i
which are spirits of a high and refined and religious character. We j
never could be certain from one day to another what sort of stance we
should, get. One day they would be very fine, the next day in¬
significant. John King once illustrated the effect upon him of a f
seemingly slight disturbing cause by comparing it to a grain of |
sand in. the delicate works of a watch, or a pebble in a highly j
finished locomotive. We have long since discarded merely phys- f
ical phenomena, such as the musical box circling overhead, and I
passing instantaneously in and out through the wall or door. The
phenomenon chiefly interesting us has been that of materialisation. We
can count about eighteen different spirits who have come, all now well
known to us, some constantly, others rarely. I suppose I must have
seen my mother at least fifty times. One of the most constant to us is
an ancient Roman, named Glaucus, who has told us that he was one
who had “ looked on the face of him who preached to the men of Athens.”
He was a physician at Rome, and a convert to the teachings of Paul.
His chief mission seems to be that of helping the Count in the exercise
of his faculty of healing magnetism. He is a tall, noble, reverend
spirit, white-haired, full of sweet benignity. There is great inequality
in the degree of perfection with which the materialisations are made.
The faces are at times far better than at others. Sometimes they are very
imperfect; occasionally painfully so. Sometimes they are mask-like, at
others full of life and expression. Sometimes we see only unsuccessful
attempts to form faces at all. At times they are larger than at others;
sometimes they dwindle in size at the same seance. Sometimes the
faces show only at the window in the curtain which forms the cabinet;
most commonly, more or less, and these come also to the side, and show
themselves at full length or half-length, at the opening, drawing the
curtain aside. Sometimes they float upward, looking indeed like angels.
Sometimes, when thus floating' in the air, the gauze-like white drapery
in which they appear attired lengthens out down to the ground at our
request. Sometimes, on request, it is thrust forward in considerable
volume. Sometimes, when asked, they will raise a hand in benediction ;
sometimes waft kisses. Sometimes, but rarely, they will allow us to
take their drapery in our hands; at others they will instantly retreat
and vanish on an attempt to approach the hand towards them. They
often thus retreat, if spoken to, or on any abrupt movement or sound
being made by any of us. Once the sudden falling of the lid of the
musical box caused a total cessation of everything for the day. There
is evidently great delicacy in the conditions under which they are able
thus to appear. Sometimes eight or ten will show themselves at one
seance (a few times two at a time; once or twice three at a time). At
other times not more than two or three, or none. A certain quantum of
what they call “ the power ” is there, and it is distributed over those who
appear. When it is exhausted, there is an end of it for the day. We
have been told that we had little idea how many spirits of our friends
were there, anxious to appear, and waiting for a chance. John King
once said there were over a hundred there at that moment. I should
mention that John King has been for a long time a sort of master of
ceremonies, aiding and enabling the several spirits to materialise by his
strong fluidic force. But even with his aid it is certain that never since
Firman’s imprisonment has “the power” been as strong as it used to
be before. The spirits cannot now bear as much light as before; nor
can we see clearly such play of features and expression as we used to
see. Originally, too, when the Count used to sit alone, the spirits (of
his relatives) used to come forth into the room, for a considerable period,
when he would freely touch them, feel their hands, feet, &c, and even
have one photographed by the strong sunlight of the window. As many
as nine have thus come forth to him at one seance, and three at a time.
We have nothing like that now. John King has ascribed this to the
“ great upset ” the medium had had. Indeed for several weeks after his
release froin prison, we got next to nothing, and should have despaired
of the return of his power but for the exhortations to persevere received
from John King. He told us that he came to help the spirits of our
circle to make their way through the “ opaque obstacles.” He has more
than once said that this was his work and mission ; that he was working
out the expiation of His crimes on earth, in regard to which he has
spoken with great humility and remorse ; and that he went to help many
circles, being able to pass from place to place by simple thought and
wish. At the same time there are spirits who falsely assume his name.
(He has spoken with great affection of Williams, as his medium through
whom he had first materialised himself, and whom he would never
desert). Sometimes, when there has been a question of a proposed
appointment for an evening stance at one of our houses, he has said that
he was engaged in London at that hour, but would be with us an hour
later.
One little point may be mentioned. Nearly all the female spirits who
appear wear above their forehead what seems a large gem, though not
with a flashing light, but rather a steady glow, sometimes roseate or
ruby, at others yellow, and sometimes changing its colour at the same
seance. Having remarked that my mother never exhibited this, I once
asked John King the reason—did it indicate any difference of condition
or sphere ? “ No,” he answered, “ it is a matter of their own fancy.
As for your mother,” he added, “she is all one jewel herself.” Their
coiffures vary; sometimes for the same spirit within a few seconds.
Often the head is covered with some simple white drapery; often the
hair is shown—sometimes elaborately arranged. Occasionally they
come veiled, and afterwards, getting stronger, drop the veil. A very
lovely young spirit, Mathilde (sister of the Countess de Bullet), has now
for weeks presented a very graceful head-gear, a triangular piece of
white coming down on her forehead, Mary Stuart fashion, with streamers,
sometimes opaque, sometimes gauze or lace, hanging down on the sides;
a favourite adornment of hers in life, as the Count has told me.
Some five or six of them have crosses, gold and jewelled, which the
Count has given them at different times, they taking them from his hand
and carrying them off. These crosses generally appear hanging from
their necks. Occasionally when they are not visible, and allusion is
made to them, they either retire for an instant and reappear with them,
or else turn round or rise a little higher so as to show them better. A
few weeks ago I witnessed one thus presented, and the spirit in a moment
or two reappeared with it round her neck by the fine gold chain which
accompanied it.
You may ask what are our “test conditions” at these materialisation
seances. We have long dispensed with what was once my practice, that
of searching, etc. We have long ceased to repeat precautions which
Sept. 15, 1876,
77
THE SPIit
ample experience with these good and honest mediums have rendered
superfluous. Having seen as many as three spirits at a time, and often
seen two young girl spirits alongside of Firman asleep in trance, or seen
him led forward in front by one of them, and having witnessed the same
phenomena occurring in our own houses as in his apartments, we think
no more of “test conditions.” The room is, however, always locked
inside as a precaution against interruption. Firman sits behind a
curtain which screens off a corner or end of the room., This cabinet
contains nothing but a cane-bottomed arm-chair, and has no possible
communication with outside. He is mesmerised by the Count. His
wife sits out with us in front, and all our hands are joined in “ chain.”
When all is over, Firman is awakened by the Count with a few trans¬
verse passes. Nevertheless, a few weeks ago, one day when wehadhad
remarkably beautiful materialisations of nine or ten spirits, I suddenly
proposed that we should search Firman’s person before he woke, not
from the slightest distrust, but in order to be able to record “ test con¬
ditions ” for the benefit of your readers; and I did so the moment he
was awakened, even to the length of passing my hand between his shirt
and skin. This was an act of total surprise. He had not even a pocket
handkerchief about him, nor even so much as a pin in his pockets. He
cheerfully complied with my doing so, at once understanding the real
friendliness of my motive. And yet, strange to say, John King had
not apprehended it, and had not seen into my mind below that surface
appearance of distrust which the outside of the action seemed to indicate.
He was “indignant” and “astonished” at such a suggestion from we,
and made an allusion to “ Thomas Didymus.” However, we soon made
it up, and were, if possible, better friends than ever. Dr. Crowell’s
experience has been that spirits not high above the earth-plane have
such relations with the elements of our material life as to enable them
to see and hear and produce physical phenomena in a manner difficult,
if not impossible, to those in higher phases or spheres, while at the
same time they do not equally see into our minds, as the latter can do.
John King can perform all sorts of physical acts, pretty much as a man
might do if present in the flesh. Especially he talks with great freedom
and fulness of voice, while Grlaucus can speak but rarely a little. He
has often tried, and we could catch but a few sibilant sounds. Once or
twice he has tried to speak close to my ear, on my request to him to say
something in Latin, when I could distinguish only one or two words—
omnibus Deus. Once only (recently) has he spoken so as to be distinctly
heard by all of us, with sight of his lips moving, and then it was in
English, as I shall presently relate. The same is true of the spirit of
my mother. John King has often spoken to us of what Bullet and I
had talked in the carriage as we drove away from the seances, or of
what had passed at our homes. He had evidently accompanied us
unseen, and had beard, and knew what he had heard and seen. But
the instance above related shows that he did not read my mind so as to
understand the animus and meaning of my spoken proposal, which he
took so as to entirely misconceive the character of the act. He talks,
writes, and reasons like a man, like one of ourselves, with knowledge
and powers we do not possess, but with no indication of an intellect
much developed or elevated beyond ours. He shows himself sensible,
right-minded, practical, friendly, good, and very, very affectionate to all
of us. He is also often playful and witty, enjoying a joke or a pun, and
making very quick and clever ones himself. At the same time he is
devout and reverential. He always takes leave of us with blessing,
and often with solemn and beautiful prayers to “ Him who is all Love
and Light, and the Great God.” Of Christ he often speaks as “ that
great and holy Spirit.” He has spoken of Him as “ that great and
holy Medium.” He has spoken of His mother as “ that high and holy
spirit.” He has often (as also other spirits) made on us the sign of the
Cross. Of Glaucus, and of certain other spirits whose presence he has
declared to us, he speaks with great reverence. Of himself he speaks
with humility, and with remorse for the earth-life, for which, he says,
he is now working to atone by his service in the promotion of the great
truth of Spiritualism. He never attempts (as Glaucus has done) to
discourse to us on its higher themes. Such is “ John King ” as we have
found him by a long and intimate experience. We have all come to
have a sincere personal affection for him, but an affection as for a man
like ourselves—not much, if at all, above the plane of our own mental
and moral life. How often have we not felt the strong, cordial grasp of
his hand, often raising ours up high above, till it was only on tip-toe
that we could follow it high over head. How often, too, have we had
affectionate caresses from him. He evidently, through a nearer relation
to the elements of our human life, and a certain force and power of
nature, furnishes a necessary fluidic aid to the other spirits to
manifest and materialise themselves. I have read that just as we need
human mediums to furnish the conditions for our communication with
spirits, spirits also need mediums in the spirit life—spirit mediums—to
enable or help them to communicate with us. If that be so, I think
John King is a powerful, good, devoted, and most serviceable medium
for them in the spirit life, and it is in that capacity that he is doing a
great work, under the promptings of higher spirits, with whom he is
collaborating to do the will of that supreme Love and Light and Power,
which alike we and he adore as God. He, too, has promised to come to
me in California. He has promised, too, if possible, to establish some
mode of communication, independent of longitude, between me in
California and my friends of our little circle in Paris. We shall see
if he is able to do it, though he has not promised more than that he
will try.
The seances close with writing, through the hands of both Firman and
his wife. Several of the young girl spirits write through the latter;
generally John King and Glaucus through the former. We have had
much highly interesting matter from Glaucus. He does not believe in
reincarnation on this planet, though it would seem from him to take
place in other planets. Some of these days these may be published.
I will conclude this general notice of these stances with a few special
incidents.
ITUALlST.
{| One day we were seated round the table, in the dark, all holding
i hands. A near relative, a lady, was next to me. I was anxious that
j some striking evidence’should touch her personally. Glaucus gave me
| some of his usual manifestations of his presence, taking my hand, putting
| his arm round my neck and bending down my head upon it and then
j | laying his face on mine. The hands of Firman and Mrs. Firman were
11 held by this lady and the Count. The room was locked, and no other
i mortal but ourselves was in it. It happened that I alone of our little
| number knew Latin. I said to Glaucus: “ Dilecte Glance, reverende
11 magister, imponas, precor, manus tuas capiti hujus, et benedicas Mam”
| (Dear Glaucus, reverend master, lay your hands, I beg you, on the head
| of this one, and bless her). In a moment or two she (who had not
11 understood what I had said), exclaimed, “ There is a large hand laid on
I my head. There are two of them. A man’s hand. And now he has
! made the sign of the cross upon me.”-—“ Gratias tibi maximas, Glance”
11 And then there came again three taps on my forehead from that
same hand with whose touch I was familiar, as also were my other
11 friends.
i I have before told you how, last winter, Glaucus, for five days in suc-
) | cession, magnetised me strongly with both hands, on my throat, breast,
j|; and back, for an alarming condition of cough and pain into which a neg-
| lected cold had brought me; how every day for a considerable period he
) | told the Count (by writing) to magnetise me, saying that he (Glaucus)
| helped him in doing so; how this magnetising was very fine and vigor-
| ous, a regular kneading or massage, and how, on the Count’s request to
I be shown how he should operate on me, his person was manipulated in
II the same manner; and how I soon improved and recovered. About a
month ago I again had avery painful attack of pleurisy in the right side.
jj John King was talking to us from inside the cabinet, when I felt the
|! well-known hands again applied to my right side, and for two or three
i minutes I was again magnetised by them as before, through all which
! period John King continued talking to us from the cabinet throughout
i the operation. “ I suppose that is you, dear Glaucus ?”—“ Yes.’’
i A couple of days after this (I having still persisted in coming, in a
| i close carriage, to the seances), the heads, first of Glaucus and then of
I my mother, appeared at the window of the cabinet, and thrusting them-
| selves forward, almost outside, and looking earnestly at me, they spoke
ji distinctly the following words, in clear whispering voices. We all three
| (the Count, my American friend, and myself) heard them perfectly, and
(| saw the movement of the lips. Glaucus said, “ Stay at home. Stay in
j j bed.” My mother said, ‘'.Send for Sue.” I accordingly telegraphed for
j j my wife to come to nurse me. This was the only time these two spirits
j have succeeded in speaking, though they have at different times made
j the attempt.
j j At my last seance before leaving Paris, John King addressed me a
j j very friendly and touching speech of adieu, for himself and the rest of
j j the familiar little band of spirits. Glaucus had come to the side of the
j cabinet and had attempted to speak, but we could only catch a few of
the sibilant sounds. John King said that Glaucus had tried to make
j me an adieu, in about the same sense, but had not been able to form
jj a voice. I have shown how affectionate they have been ; they are, I
j think, even more so to my two friends who remain in Paris,
j Long before my mother was able to appear in materialised form, John
j King used to tell us that she was there, hoping and striving to do so,
j j and that in time she would be able, and that he would give her all the
i help in his power. Two or three days after her first appearance, he led
j her forth from the cabinet, and at a distance of about a couple of feet from
j i me held up his light to her face, and then brought her up to within a few
| inches of my face.
The mother and a young sister of my American friend above referred
j to have very often appeared to us. Sometimes also the father of a lady
i who is a member of his family.
i Altogether we can count eighteen different spirits who have appeared
j to us at these seances. There is no deception nor trickery in them,
j nor any possibility of it. Of this your readers may rest perfectly as-
j sured.
I regret that time and space alike forbid my relating one or two other
j interesting and remarkable incidents, especially one relating to a spirit
j of a Greek (modern), named Akosus. If possible, I may write it for
j you in the course of the Atlantic voyage, on the eve of which I beg you
j to accept the friendly and respectful adieu of your faithful corre-
j spondent, J. L. O’Sullivan.
j London, Sept. 3rd,
Reception oe New Truths.—Dr. Farrar, late Master of Marlborough
j College, and present Canon of Westminster, writing on the origin of
language, which he, in opposition to Max Muller, holds to be onoraa-
j topoeic, says :—“ We must first enter on two very interesting prelimi-
j nary inquiries, viz.; 1st. How did words first come to be accepted as
j signs at all? 2nd. By what processes did men hit on the words them-
j selves ? . . . I am well aware that these questions may appear ridiculous
j to any one who is entirely unaccustomed to these branches of inquiry;
j and they may possibly be inclined to set the whole matter at rest by a
dogmatism or a jeer. They will say, perhaps;—
Here babbling insight shouts in nature’s ears,
His last conundrum of the orbs and spheres;
There self-inspection sucks his little thumb,
With ‘ Whence am I,’ and * Wherefore did I come ? ’
I With readers of such a temperament it is idle to reason, nor do we
expect that, while the world lasts, ignorance will cease to take itself
for knowledge, and denounce what it cannot understand. To others we
j will merely say that these inquiries have occupied, and are still occu-
jj pying in an increasing degree, some of the most profound and sober
intellects in Europe, and that, in the words of Plato, ‘ wise men do not
usually talk nonsense.’ ”
m THE SPIRITTTAtlST. Sept. 15. 1876.
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT GLASGOW.
THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM CONSIDERED.
(From our Special Co7respondent.)
Glasgow, Friday Night.
The meeting this year in Glasgow of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science has been an exception¬
ally good one, whether considered in the light of the number
and value of the papers read, of the hospitality of the re¬
ception, or of the number of new members, and the funds
subscribed in the locality. Another circumstance will add
to the historical interest of the meeting, although it is not
yet fully seen that such is the case by the majority of the
members, namely, that the all-important facts of Spiritualism
have been recognised by the British Association as deserv¬
ing impartial examination.
When I visited Glasgow some years ago, the present
magnificent University on the brow of a hill overlooking the
city had no existence, and the professors performed their
painstaking duties within the limits of the old College. Did
these conditions exist now, the excellent accommodation for
the various Sections of the British Association which was
afforded during the past week could not have been given,
for few towns are able to furnish halls with suitable ante¬
rooms for the use of eight or ten large Sections which meet
at the same time. Excellent accommodation, combined with
a multiplicity of good papers, and new experiments in the
realms of nature provided by Sir William Thomson and his
colleagues in Glasgow, contributed a great deal to the excep¬
tional value of the meeting now at an end.
The opening address of the President, Dr. Andrews, was
of a routine, “jog-trot” character, dealing chiefly with
physics, but here and there recognising the fact that no
adventitious surroundings will make a scientific man a power¬
ful exponent of the laws and works of nature, unless a high
power within is the mainspring of his thoughts and deeds,
preventing him from moving in fixed grooves like a pedagogue
devoid of originality. The Duke of Argyll, at the same
meeting, drew a disparaging parallel between literary men
and men of science, pointing out that although among the
latter we have those in our midst whose reputations will
live for ages, no iShakespeares, Miltons, Wordsworths, and
so on, are to be found. In the first place, all the scientific
men he mentioned were literary men; so, why separate
them from the remainder of their kind? If he replies that
their fame is due to their science, and not to their litera¬
ture, it would seem that every literary man expresses what
to him are the truths of God; so the scientific writer does
no more than his neighbour. The reason he is more appre¬
ciated is that his discoveries increase men’s material bene¬
fits, and this being a materialistic age, when confidence in
the reality of an unseen world is dying out because of the
incomprehensible creeds beneath which man has buried
spiritual truth, the materialistic literary man has an advan¬
tage over his fellows, so far as public fame is concerned.
Men are not now so ready to be guided by the emotions as
they were in the days of old, consequently poets have not
their former influence. Buchanan can appeal to the feelings,
and writes under gusts of inspiration as much as ever did
Burns; but he cannot obtain the same recognition, simply
because the age is less emotional. In one sense this may be
a disadvantage, but on the other hand it prevents men from
being driven hither and thither by every gust of passion.
If literature has been sinking in undue proportion to its
growth in breadth—which I deny—society is responsible.
The law of supply and demand exists here as elsewhere.
Society prepares for crimes or failings, and individuals
execute her behests.
Not a little trouble has been experienced in bringing
^Spiritualism before one of the Sections. After Professor
Barijett had begun to write" his paper on the subject, the
m'empb^of the Committee of "the Biological Section began
to qtorrel^ito whether it should be .permitted to be read,
or should: bej^ected ; and this, moreover, before they had
seen its cbntentk>>sHowever, it was given' in, and the
| | Biological Committee released themselves of responsibility
jlj in the matter by relegating it to the committee of the
j 51 Anthropological Sub-section, which, by an exceedingly narrow
|| majority, decided upon its acceptance. Colonel Lane Fox
j(| did much to bring about this result, by asking them, as they
j)j had discussed ancient witchcraft last year, why should they
Hi not examine modern witchcraft this; moreover, there was
|(| great responsibility in tabooing unexamined subjects. Partly
| | owing to the exertions of Colonel Lane Fox, and partly to
I I great care on the part of Mr. Barrett to put nothing in the
Hi paper which could give the committee a reasonable excuse
| | for rejecting it, it was passed. Of course everybody knew
||| perfectly well that all kinds of heterodox facts, which have
I no business to exist in nature outside the jurisdiction of the
,|)| British Association, would come forth in the discussion, and
| (I this was the awkward part of the whole matter; still, as no
| | law existed to fetter the conscientious utterances of members,
|)| there was no escape from the difficulty. The paper itself
j j was perfectly felt to be tolerably harmless.
| | Thus did Spiritualism come for the first time publicly
111 before the British Association, and this morning an audience
| | of about 1,500 members listened for four hours in the most
I | good-tempered and unprejudiced way to all the bearings of
| i the question. Any tedious speaker was “ applauded down,”
| ! but all who spoke clearly, and to the point, had a fair
j j hearing. Dr. Carpenter, who, during a part of the pro-
| | ceedings was upon the platform, had the pleasure of
||| hearing a British Association meeting applauding the
ill narration of facts which he had stated in his books to
ijj have no existence, but in his remarks he was tolerably con-
| I ciliatory, and careful to say that he did not attribute all the
| i phenomena of Spiritualism to imposture. In fact, good
if sense and mutual forbearance made the whole meeting
| I harmonious, except that there was a slight explosion between
I | Mr. Wallace and Dr. Carpenter towards the close, arising
| | from a misunderstanding about words.
The full shorthand details of this meeting will be pub-
| | lished in The Spiritualist next week, and will nearly fill it.
1In the meantime, as the post is just leaving, and the meeting
| has not long concluded—for the discussion occupied four
j(| hours instead of the usual fifteen minutes—I cut the fol-
fj lowing summary from the Glasgow Citizen, which was
II selling about the streets here before the meeting partially
| | reported therein had closed:—
|j Professor Barrett then read a paper entitled “On some Phenomena
j|| Associated with Abnormal Conditions of Mind.” The paper first dealt
| (! with the phenomena of mesmerism—the author giving an "account of
| j | some experiments he had made in this direction, confirmatory of Mr.
11 Braid’s experiments on hypnotism. These phenomena were at one
i | time not accepted by physiologists ; but quotations were given from the
||| recent edition of Dr. Carpenter’s and Dr. Maudsley’s works on
I1J “Mind,” showing that they are not now questioned. Prof. Barrett
I then detailed some further experiments he had made on the so-called
“ thought-reading,” i.e., the influence of one mind upon another with¬
out the intervention of any impressions derived from the senses. This
i point is as yet not admitted by physiologists, and one of the objects of
| the present paper was to urge the importance of a further investigation
of this remarkable phenomenon. The second portion of the paper dealt
with the so-called Spiritualistic phenomena. Professor Barrett recorded
a series of careful observations he had made on a little girl not ten
years old, the daughter of parents in good position in society. When¬
ever the child was in a passive condition, knockings were heard on the
furniture, or even on an umbrella or other solid substance when she was
in the open air. Every possible source of deception was removed,
nevertheless the phenomena continued. These knockings occurred in
| the broad sunlight in the presence of careful investigators, and were
found to display intelligence, inasmuch as a prompt response was given
to questions addressed to the unknown agent. So far as the observa¬
tion went no information was given by the knocks outside the range of
j the knowledge possessed by the child. Curiously enough, in the case
| of this child, the phenomena, after rising to a maximum, gradually died
away, just as curiosity was aroused, and had it been fraud on the part of
| the child, this would most likely not have been the case, as some feeling
| of vanity might have grown. Professor Barrett also briefly referred to
I a careful investigation he had made within the last month of an
| i i American gentleman named Slade, who also, in broad daylight, has
i j | tried knockings on the furniture, and also writing on a slate held in such
jjj a position that deception seems almost inconceivable. Various
jji eminent scientific men had from time to time accompanied the
i i author in his investigation of Mr. Slade, and no trickery had
|(| been practised. Nevertheless, Professor Barrett wished to suspend
|{ his judgment as to the genuineness of these latter phenomena until
jjj a still more searching inquiry had been made, inasmuch as it is possible
j (! that in this case the so-called medium may be a marvellously expert
jj conjuror, an utterly untenable hypothesis, in the case of the little child.
11 i Moreover, the evidence of such eminent and careful investigators as Mr.
Sept. 15, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 79
A. R. Wallace, the president of this Section, and Mr. W. Crookes, and
others, in the opinion of the author, ought to have received more atten¬
tion from scientific men than has yet been accorded to it. The author
expressed himself unable to give any solution of these phenomena, but
urged inquiry and counselled suspense of judgment as to their natural
or supernatural origin.
The Chairman said they must all agree that they had hardly heard in
the room a paper which, whatever they might think of its subject-matter,
had been treated in a more careful and a more truly scientific manner than
that to which they had just listened. The subject was one which would
naturally excite a considerable amount of discussion, and it was abso¬
lutely necessary, as the paper was a record of facts solely, that persons
should not be allowed to speak who knew nothing whatever of the facts.
(Laughter and applause.)
Col. Lane Fox gave an account of a series of investigations that he
had held in his own house, and with members of his own family, during
the last four years, particularly with reference to planchette writing,
and recorded his opinion as to the genuineness of the phenomena,
though the results obtained were perfectly useless.
Mr. Crookes took objection to the latter part of Mr. Barrett’s paper, in
which it appeared that everything he had himself seen and investigated
he thoroughly believed in and asked them to believe, but when he read
or was told by other scientific men or other persons who had investi¬
gated much more wonderful things, he was rather inclined to give the
explanation that the observer had been in some mysterious manner
hypnotised or mesmerised, and instead of seeing the things, he thought
he saw them. That, if carried to its legitimate extent, would entirely
stop the whole progress of research in any branch of science. He dis¬
sented from the statement that a trained physical inquirer was no
match for a professional conjuror, and stated that he always refused to
investigate the alleged phenomena, except in his own house and under
his own conditions.
Several other speakers followed, and among them Dr. Carpenter, who
said he had always admitted the possibility of the spiritual manifesta¬
tions, though he had not been able to admit as such the phenomena he
had witnessed. Dr. Carpenter also said that in investigating such
matters a very large allowance should be made for the extraordinary
tendency to deception existing, especially among women, which none
but medical men knew. He referred to a visit he had made to Dr.
Slade, and said he had seen things at which he had been greatly
astonished; but at present Dr. Slade was upon his trial. If he would
exhibit the same phenomena in his (Dr. Carpenter’s) house, he should
consider it a matter worthy of the most careful investigation.
Miss Becker thought that the subject should be investigated in a
scientific spirit. She described some trance phenomena which had
occurred within her own observation, and certain “ knockings,” of which,
she said, no satisfactory account had ever been given. She also described
her experiences with the “ planchette.” She condemned anything like
ridicule as applied to Spiritualism, but expressed her great astonishment
at some accounts that she had read in the Medium respecting a spiritual
tea-party that had taken place, at which a spirit drank two cups of tea
and ate a round of buttered toast. (Laughter.) Another spirit was
described as mixing some gin-and-water.
The reporter of the above might have said that Miss
Becker admitted that she was a medium herself, and through
her own hand had had messages by the planchette which she
could not explain. Mr. Parke Harrison, an unusually active
member of the Council of the Anthropological Society and
its committees, argued that not a few of the alleged pheno¬
mena were sleight of hand and imposture, but he was listened
to with great impatience ; indeed, the running fire of dis¬
approbatory noises at last caused him to cut short his re¬
marks. After a few words from an Irish clergyman, who
said that the witnesses on behalf of Spiritualism could not
be trusted, more especially one related to himself, Mr.
Walter Weldon told how he had had planchette writing
through his own hand; moreover, one night, when an
extra powerful physical medium was in his house,, a
table weighing 3] cwt. beat holes in the carpet, and
indented the floor underneath. Mr. Hyde Clarke
said that the investigation of these subjects had
better be left entirely in the hands of Messrs. Wallace,
Crookes, and other able men, who had already taken them
up, and who were fully competent to deal with them. He
forgot to explain why, unlike other subjects, they had
previously been excluded from the British Association. Dr.
Heaton, of Leeds, admitted that there was strong evidence
as to the reality of the phenomena, adding that the sensi¬
tives in whose presence they occurred suffered much in
health. After a few remarks from the President and Pro¬
fessor Barrett, the meeting came to a close.
What has taken place tp-day will secure a full and fair
hearing next year, at Plymouth, when Professor Allen
Thomson will be the president of the British Association.
Professor Thomson, it will be remembered, once made some
hasty and disparaging remarks about Spiritualism, but when
he found that they had been too thoughtlessly uttered,
he apologised like a gentleman.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN COLEMAN.
j) | The following report was forwarded to us a day or two ago for
| j publication :—
11 “A meeting of the committee met ou the 9th August to wind up
| j the accounts and dispose of the balance in hand. There were present:
I William Tebb (Chairman), Andrew Leighton, William White, Corne¬
ll lius Pearson, Thomas Shorter, Andrew Glendinning, and Algernon
Joy (Hon. Secretary).
1“ The subscriptions were found to have amounted to £565 6s. 4d.,
i and were accounted for as follows-
Paid to Mr. Coleman   d>300 0 0
„ for printing, postage, &c  6 8 9
Subscription not received      5 0 0
Balance in hand         253 17 7
|j£565 6 4
“It was explained that the £300 had been paid to Mr. Coleman
with the consent of the chief subscribers.
“ The balance of £250 odd being inadequate to the purchase of an
annuity, as originally designed, it was resolved to instruct the trea¬
surer, Mr. Calder, to hand it over to a trustee, with any additional
subscriptions ; the trustee having the confidence of the committee and
Mr. Coleman, and the proposed application of the money being defined
and approved.
“The chairman was authorised to communicate the cordial thanks
of the committee to the Editor of The Spiritualist for his kind and
gratuitous services.
“ Although the amount subscribed has fallen short of the neces¬
sities of the case, the committee feel that, under all the circumstances,
they have reason to congratulate themselves on the result.
“ William Tebb, Chairman.
“ Subscription received since meeting : Temple, £1.”
On Sunday next, Sept. 10th, Mr. Smith, of Oldham, will occupy the
platform in the afternoon and evening at the Spiritualists’ Institute,
Waterloo-street, in that town.
Mrs. Woodforde’s stances for physical manifestations, with Mr.
Arthur Cdlman as medium, will be resumed at her rooms, 90, Great
Russell-street, on Saturday, the 10th inst., and will continue to be held
on Wednesday {instead of Thursday) and Saturday of each week.
Spiritualists who visit Glasgow, and require hotel accommodation
of good quality, cannot do better than select the Blythswood Hotel,
in Argyle-street. The landlord, Mr. Leary, is a Spiritualist, and an
influential, though unobtrusive, worker in the movement.
Mr. Willie Eglinton, physical medium, is now in Exmouth. He
will be in London two or three days next week, previous to his depar¬
ture for Holland, when he will give his seances as usual to investi¬
gators. Persons desirous of securing his services should apply imme¬
diately. See advertisement.
Earth Life and its Advantages.—I have heard it said, that what
might have been acquired in a year or month ou earth, may take cen¬
turies to accomplish after leaving the material form. Oh, it is a sad
sight to witness spirits (who have found out this great truth) with
nervous, restless, and almost hopeless anxiety depicted upon every
lineament of their emaciated bodies, going from one to another seeking
relief, and, when disappointed, turn away with almost hopeless despair,
only to try again. They have the heart sympathy of the higher spirits,
who are engaged in assisting them.—Jennie Sprague, a Spirit, in “ Voice
of Angels."
Notification of Death at a Distance.—The following is from a
paragraph which appeared in The Times of Monday last, Sept. 11th,
in reference to the death of the late Mr. George Smith, the eminent
Assyrian scholar and explorer, who died last month at Aleppo:—
“ A young German Assyriologist of the highest promise, Dr. Friedrich
Delitzsch, is now, for the second time, in this country, having been sent,
as on his former visit, by the King of Saxony, to study the arrow-
headed inscriptions in the British Museum. During his former stay
here last year, which was noticed at the time in our columns, Dr.
Delitzsch and Mr. George Smith naturally became fast friends, and the
Leipsic savant and his brother Hermann were chosen by Mr. Smith to
introduce to German readers his Chaldean Account of Genesis, which
has, accordingly, just been published at Leipsic under their joint
editorship. On the 19th ult., the day of Mr. George Smith’s death,
Dr. Delitzsch was on his way to the house of Mr. William St. Chad
Boscawen, who is also a rising Assyriologist, and has been Mr. Smith’s
substitute at the British Museum ever since that gentleman started on
his third expedition to the East. Mr. Boscawen resides in Victoria-
road, Kentish-town, and in passing the end of Crogsland-road, in
which Mr. George Smith lived, and within about a stone’s throw of
the house, his German friend and translator says he suddenly heard a
most piercing cry, which thrilled him to the marrow—“ Herr Dr.
Delitzsch.” The time—for as soon as he had got over the shock he
looked at his watch—was between 6.45 and 7 p.m. Mr. Parsons gives
the hour of Mr. Smith’s death at 6 p.m. Dr. Delitzsch, who strongly
disavows any superstitious leanings, was ashamed to mention the cir¬
cumstance to Mr. Boscawen on reaching that gentleman’s house,
although on his return home he owns that his nervous apprehensions
of some mournful event in his owp, family found; relief in tears, and
that he recorded all the facts ip his note-book that same night. Dr.
Delitzsch told the story on the 5th inst., at our informant’s breakfast-
table, with all thg circumstances mentioned above, including the hqur
at which he heard the shrill cry. He distinctly denied hayflig'^en.,
thinking-.pf Air. George Smith at. the time.”
80
THE SPIEITTJALIST,
Sept. 15, 1876,
(EortesponiJence.
IQrM freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE CRITICAL AND THE EMOTIONAL NATURE OP MAN.
Sir,—Allow me through your columns to thank Dr. Slade from my
inmost heart for his noble and beautiful letter which appears in your
issue of the 1st instant. Who is there so callous or blind as to read
such a letter without emotions which few sermons and no leading
articles of the “ ablest editors” could ever inspire? To feel—as
every man who has a heart at all must feel—on reading those glowing
and heroic words, that the spirit of chivalry is not dead; but
that even yet here and there it still survives, burning, perchance,
more brightly than of yore, chastened and exalted by the ex¬
perience of the ages, refined and (purified by the ever more and more
indwelling temper of the Divine Redeemer, is, indeed, in this afflicted
generation, like water from the bubbling fountains of the river of life
itself, and light to the wearied and darkened spirit from the temple of
the Most High. Were it not that the light that is in us so often is
darkness, such words alone, and the temper which governs them, would
be indeed a revelation to us, such a revelation as every noble and beau¬
tiful thing in His Universe is intended by the Divine Creator of it to be
to His sensitive children. But even now, as in other ! times, an “ evil
and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign.” Is it because there is
now even greater mental and spiritual darkness, and the spirit of Anti-
Christ stalks abroad more fiercely that a sign is to be given unto it.
By the spirit of Anti-Christ I mean the spirit of selfish lust and cruelty,
the vain and heartless rivalry of every man and woman in the
attempt to be a more visibly faithful worshipper of the Golden Calf
than his or her neighbour, and to make their sons and daughters pass
through the fire to Mammon, to the destruction of their bodies and
souls. Is it for this reason that in our generation a sign is to be given,
and such a sign as will make the earth tremble, and the thrones of
princes totter to the dust? I allude not to Spiritualism; the whole
experience of man is Spiritualism, and all the succession of events, but
the harmonious dreams of the children of men, dreams by which through
the kindly leading of divine light, and the warmth of divine love, or fail¬
ing these, not less terribly and truly by the raging fires of error, and
the scorpion fangs of pain and misery and death, they are being
guided and taught and brought by many tortuous paths, and by many
varied experiences, to be fit for the kingdom of heaven. And man
thus stands with bis divine faculty of consciousness, which is that which
gives him the possibility of all experience, intermediate, physically as
well as spiritually, between light and fire, and, from his earliest in¬
fancy, through conscience, hears the sweet eternal voices ever saying
to him, r Choose thou this day whom thou wilt serve.” And if
Providence has so decreed, that, instead of being born amongst the
good and gifted, and so, by easy steps, obtaining the results of many
experiences, it should be the lot of the vast majority to be the
victims of the accumulated errors of the ages, and thus have to fight
out their very experiences, by which not they, presently, but only
future and unknown generations are to profit, for them too, as for
every suffering man, there is laid up, after they have seen and known
and been made capable of feeling, all that man is meant to see, and
know, and feel. There are laid up the angel’s harp and the martyr’s
crown, against that day—for many, however dimly and darkly distant—
when they shall enter the holiest of holies, as the created and redeemed
and purified children of God. For now we doubt not, but we know
 that somehow good
Shall be the final goal of ill,
To faults of nature, sins of will,
Defects of doubt, and taints of blood:
That nothing walks with aimless feet,
That not one life shall be destroyed,
Or perish from the general void,
Till God hath made the pile complete.
Alas! I know full well that for too many in this age, all I have been
saying is rhapsody, not reason, and that there is already abroad such a
spirit of mental blindness, that, as it will not believe in Moses and the
Prophet, nor in any beautiful, and, therefore, true thing, so neither will
it believe “ although one rose from the dead.” And the nation that
allows itself to be taught by those possessing such a spirit will have to
drink the cup of bitterness, and perchance of blood itself, which is the
only alternative through all the ages offered by God to men and nations,
who will continue to be led by blindness and wrong, instead of by reason
and love. And I regret more than enough to see amongst Spiritualists
themselves, who, if true Spiritualists, should be true Christians—not in
a sectarian, but in the only sense the Saviour ever meant or wished,
viz., men having the tone and temper of Christ—too often, as amongst
other men, a desire to exalt their own views and theories above the
eternal truths of the universe. I beg in all humility to tell them that
they will never guide mankind properly, nor come themselves towards
that perfect harmony of knowledge, thought, and feeling, towards which
all the experience of man is tending, and which may not yet for ages on
ages be realised, until they humbly renounce all desire for personal
notoriety, in favour of sincere efforts for the good of all mankind ; and
those amongst them who would teach others must make their own edu¬
cation and culture as deep as the teaching of Kant, or broad as the
Baconian philosophy, and as high as the sublimest passages of Shake¬
speare. They must learn from Kant that all the phenomena of expe¬
rience are but successive impressions through the senses on the individual
consciousness, and that from them, by the powers of memory and com¬
parison, the thought and character are created and grow. They must
learn that it is in the mind of man only,—not in the apparently real
outside phenomena,—that all that men by mutual comparison and inter¬
change call Nature,
ij  at the roaring looms of Time does ply,
And weave for God the garment man sees Him by.
j From Bacon they must learn that this succession of phenomena, which
is fact, is before all theory or even thought itself, and must govern
thought for ever ; or, as Dr. Slade most beautifully puts it—
| “ Opinions cannot change a fact, but one fact will change (he might
have said many) opinions.”
I Then, remembering the ultimate analysis of Kant, and seeking to
acquire knowledge of fact before theory, let them come to Shakespeare
| and all true poets to learn that all consciousness and all knowledge are
only stages in the moral and active relations of men to one another, and
that a man may, as it were, gain the whole world of knowledge me-
! chanically, and yet lose his own soul—that is, his character and
capacity for right, not wrong, action and feeling. And, finally, sum¬
ming up all the teaching of the ages in their own experience, they must
recognise that they, and all things have been made and are organised
and governed by a Power which is not themselves, and must humbly
and reverently bow before the eternal purposes of Almighty God towards
His Universe, and they will find, ultimately, that higher than the reason
by which we know all things, there reigns the Love Supreme, the sense
of which in ourselves, and towards our neighbour, and towards the
Eternal Father, becomes only possible in a pure and perfect sense as
we, through daily duty and the practice of kindness, grow towards a
perhaps still far-off beauty and perfection of our own nature, after the
eternal ideal presented to us in Jesus Christ. Leaving all creeds and
religions aside, where they perplex, and trouble, and seem untrue, they
will be found ultimately to be fragmentary truths, which will be reunited in
the spirit of Christ’s teaching (imperfectly even as it has come down to
us), and in the divine perfection of His character, which is exhibited
thereby. Let us not be led away by the blind and unnatural and un¬
human scientific teaching of the day, which seeks, by microscopes of
ever higher and higher power, to find the secret of the universe—open
to all—but only through the natural and balanced faculties of body and
mind and heart, developed from a sincere desire for the good of man,
and therefore of the glory of God. Let us rather seek guidance of men
of true insight, who have thereby acquired true knowledge, which is
>| the food of the soul. When we have read and understood Sartor
( Jtesartus, Fors Clavigera, and the Wealth of Nations, by the light of
I one another, then, and not till then, shall we be able to understand and
i grapple with the deepest economical, social, and religious problems of
(I the day—problems which no Spiritualism alone, without the disinterested
|| action of living men, recognising the physical world, with all its grim
/ necessities as the origin and base of the spiritual, can ever solve. But,
(i thanks be to God, Spiritualism, even in its most tangible and verifiable
ji form, is true, and it will doubtless ere long lift a load of doubt from the
(j minds of many men, bring cosmos out of the chaos of modern thought
)j and speculation, and “ bid the saddened hearts rejoice, because of man’s
I immortality triumphant, heralded by angel ministry ! ”
I And I, who write, how can I expect any one to believe, from my
I account in the truths of Spiritualism, who was myself an unbeliever
I only so late as a week ago. I do not. Such facts and experiences no
| one has a right to believe on the ipse dixit of any one, not that of his
dearest and most trusted friend. But five minutes’ experience of one of
/1 Dr. Slade’s seances will convince any sane man of their reality, and if
(j he is honest, he will say so. I can confirm all that Mr. Serjeant Cox
|! and Mr. Wallace have so admirably described, and, besides, I can
I assert that I received an unmistakable message from a dear departed,
(j signed, not with the name written down by me, entirely out of Dr.
) j Slade's sight, and held under the table, in my own hand only, but with
(i the pet name by which he was known to his family, said family being
(; 400 miles from London, and, with myself, utterly unknown to Dr.
)] Slade. But what was truly miraculous, beyond the possibility of doubt,
(j was not the message, nor the signature, but the conditions of its recep-
| tion. I distinctly affirm that I received it written audibly within a new
)i and perfectly clean closed folding-slate, produced then and therefrom
(j my pocket, and purchased by me, for the very purpose of giving the
>! matter an absolute and unmistakable test, said slate being held close
) | between my own finger and thumb, in my full view (for being closed
yj there was no necessity for its being put under the table), Dr. Slade’s
) ] hand not touching it or near it. Not only was the writing going on
/1 audibly, under these conditions, and while Dr. Slade and I were talking
yj easily on irrelevant subjects—thus showing unmistakably the action of
| a third intelligence, besides those of the only two living beings in the
|j room—but its very presence was made visible by the motion of the
)j entire slate, held in my own hand, and under my very nose, as it were,
H in full view. This motion corresponded to every audible turn of the
y! crumb of slate-pencil, hidden in the interior, and which I could not
)j control any more than I could have done, if I had asked a friend with
j i a strong hand and arm to write for me on a slate, while I only held the
11 corner between finger and thumb. Truly, sir, the “ eye only sees what
>j it brings with it the power of seeing,” and there are more things in
j i heaven and earth than most of us dream of in our philosophies.
,j . William B. Pullar.
i; Bexley Heath, S.E., 4th September, 1876.
SPIRITUALISM FROM A THEOLOGICAL POINT OF VIEW.
I Sir,—Those who, like your correspondent, “Another M.A. of Oxford,”
believe both in Spiritualism and Christianity, must feel that of all the
interesting problems which the dawning science of Spiritualism presents,
the problem surpassing all others in interest is its relation to Christianity,
and its effect upon the Christian church of the future. It seems to me
that your correspondent, in characterising Spiritualism as the “ strong
delusion ” foretold by St. Paul (which doubtless in one of its aspects it
is) does not allow for its other aspect—an aspect frequently set forth in
the communications of “ Imperator ” to “ M.A., Oxon.” I allude to the
1 convincing testimony it bears to the possibility, or, rather, to the pro-
Sept. 15, 1876,
THE SPIBITTJALIST.
81
bability of that continuous series of revelations of the character and
will of God recorded in Holy Scripture.
Men and women of this generation who wish to believe in these past
revelations, but who cannot contradict their own reason, which they also
believe in, have necessarily undergone an intellectual ordeal in seeking
for the truth which satisfies both reason and faith. Now to such, as
it seems to me, Spiritualism supplies two arguments on the side of
faith.
1. It removes the « priori objection resting on the solitariness of
Scripture miracles and angelic appearances.
2. It shows that there is in the physical organism of man an apparatus
ready to hand, so to speak, through which Divine communications may
be made, by the agency of ministering spirits. Of course there are
many further questions as to the nature of the communicating intelli¬
gences, but my object in writing is to elicit the views of your corre¬
spondent. E. H. W.
Sm,—Wandering about in the wilds of Sutherlandshire, I have
missed my letters and papers for some time. Among a budget just come
in is your journal, and in it I read, with feelings which send me straight
to pen and ink, the letter of “ Another M.A. of Oxford.” So far as I
can make out—for theology, like the cuttle fish, very much darkens the
waters around it—we Spiritualists are the victims of “ a strong delusion,
sent into our midst by the infinite God.” I quote the words with an
inward shudder, because we “ have not received the love of the truth,”
and our end is comprehensively to “be damned.” If I do any wrong by
compression or misapprehension, that wrong is unintentional, and my
interpretation, at any rate, does no violence to the plain grammatical
meaning, or to the spirit of the letter. Stripped of verbiage and theo¬
logical mist that is what is stated.
With all the energy of which I am master, with all my heart and
soul, I would repudiate such a libel on the Creator. That any humble
seeker after truth should be handed over by the God of Truth to the
devil because he would fain probe to the very root—that any man should
be punished because his mind is of a different complexion to another man’s
—that God should prescribe a creed for acceptance, with hell as the
alternative—these are notions so monstrous, so dishonouring to the
God I know and adore, that I must needs repudiate them with abhor¬
rence.
This is what a long course of theology has brought us to ! God has
spoken to man at divers times, in divers ways, according to human
needs. He has inspired human instruments in days of old, as He
inspires them now, to speak a word in season to those who need it.
Yet we are to have a distorted word of “ an inspired apostle,” written
for a different people, at an age far other than this, hurled in our teeth
as an anathema, in order to prevent that very search after truth which
Paul, were he living now, would be the first to encourage. What! has
God shut up all avenues of inquiry ? Has He placed pitfalls before
the doors that lead to new truth? Has He once spoken, and is the
man who now would listen to His voice, and catch (if it may be) some
accents that his soul longs for, to be handed over to eternal burnings as
a malefactor ? The days, thank God 1 are fast passing away when any
such belief will be tolerated. Dogma and anathema, fire and brimstone,
stereotyped beliefs, and athanasian creeds are fast dying a richly merited
death. They are all so many bars to free inquiry; so many bogies of
a buried past. In place of them is growing a humble and reverent
search into truth; a belief that God is honoured by the minutest study
of all His works; a craving for all knowledge, specially of that which
it most concerns man to have—a knowledge of his future, and a desire
to probe to the utmost that which offers most opportunity of gaining
this knowledge, viz., the revelations of modern Spiritualism.
With faith in any future life dying all around us, with religion fast
losing its hold on the most thinking minds, are we to be frightened
away from that platform on which alone religion and science can meet?
And is the bogie that is to frighten us to be a wrested text which attri¬
butes to the God whom we are called upon to adore, the sending on His
helpless creatures a strong delusion” in order that they “ all maybe
damned ?”
It is good, sir, to put such a gospel in plain English. I would that
your correspondent knew, as many of your readers do, the reasonable
and divine message that the higher spirits bring—a message which,
while it meets man’s necessities, does honour to the God whom it
reveals. M. A. Oxon.
Loch Inver, Sutherlandshire.
STRONG SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN PRIVATE LIFE.
Sir,—An account of the development of a powerful physical medium
whom I have been fortunate enough to discover among my friends, may
not be uninteresting.
The first intimation of his mediumship occurred during a family
stance, when one of our talented public mediums, being among us,
told us that he thought my friend to be a medium. A few days after¬
wards I visited him, and the results of his development are as follows:—
First sitting. At his own house, in an unfurnished room, a table and
the chairs used being the only furniture. The manifestations were—the
direct spirit voice; a bronze hand used as a paper-weight was brought
from the drawing-room; we were frequently touched, and some writing
was done in my Spiritual Diary.
Second sitting. Same room. A long string of questions was correctly
answered by raps, with regard to the earth-life of a friend who passed
away five years ago. The medium did not know, and never had seen,
my friend, and we two were the only mortals present. The circum¬
stances connected with his death, for he died at sea, were not ordinary.
Other spirit-friends of the medium manifested their, presence by the
direct voice. During this sitting the medium was in his normal state.
Third sitting. Same room. The medium’s sister and wife were also
present. He was entranced, and we were sprinkled with water ; there
was no water in the room when we entered and locked the door. Lu¬
minous hands were seen by all; we were touched by hands. While
sitting with my friend smoking the hand appeared again between us and
| was seen by both.
Fourth sitting. At my father’s house in Norwood, my friend having
I kindly promised to give him a seance. This was in a furnished room.
| Flowers were brought, and we were told by the direct voice that they
I were emblematical of Christian life, being immortelles. A light floated
about the room, and luminous hands were distinctly seen by all. I felt
among them some children’s hands.
Fifth seance. At the medium’s house. Very perfect hands and a
| materialisation of the face. The medium’s sword was brought down
from his bedroom and placed on the table, the door being locked. On
lighting a candle, the table was found covered with things that had been
placed upon it.
Sixth seance. At the house, of my friend’s mother-in-law. Large
j and heavy articles were brought into the room from the hall. Very
perfect hands were seen, and a materialisation of John King took place.
| Direct voice.
j This development has taken place since August 11th, and I think all
will agree that it is remarkably quick and very promising. I am sorry
that I am unable to mention names, but as it is my friend’s wish I have
I ( no alternative. I enclose my card and address. Y.
SPIRITUALISM WITHOUT SPIRITUALITY.
Sir,—Mr. Joy has dealt very tenderly with me in saying “it is
written,” when that which I wrote has so thrilled-him with righteous
horror, that he feels it a sacred duty to expose its whole insidiousness.
Considering that many of my best friends, of the highest possible
tone of character, are numbered among the non-reincarnationists, it
must be clear that my words were not intended to be specially applied.
They were used in a general sense, to denote the leading feature of each
of the two great branches of the spiritual movement. I thought that
words could be so used. If I am wrong, it is owing to that defective
female education which I am daily forced to deplore, and to the want
of that mathematical training which has given such admirable exactness
to the thought of Mr. Joy.
What I meant to say was that English Spiritualism deals principally
with the physical side of the question, and that Continental Spiritualism
is chiefly directed towards moral teaching. These respective develop¬
ments have arisen out of natural, theological, and political conditions;
natural, because physical mediums do not grow on French, German,
and Spanish soil; theological, because the people of Roman Catholic
countries are accustomed to receive their religion on authority; and
political, because the law does not allow free meetings in private
houses in France and most Continental countries.
Whether belief really has much influence on conduct is a moot point
with some. Where it is strong and living, I think it has, more especially
if what has been belief comes to be verified by demonstrable facts, passes
into the domain of knowledge, and becomes a part of the common ex¬
perience of all mankind.
I believe it to be most essential that in Spiritualism, beyond all other
subjects, we should carefully distinguish between belief and knowledge.
We can only knoio, strictly speaking, that which is within our own ex¬
perience ; all that we receive at second-hand, even on the testimony
of the most reliable witnesses, is belief; all that lies beyond is specu¬
lation, or, in its highest forms, aspiration and hope. Yet though far
beyond our grasp, it is surely more ennobling to strive after an unat¬
tainable ideal of love, or knowledge, or beauty, than to remain wholly
engrossed with that which belongs to the material life.
I do not maintain that to noble minds the study of phenomenal
nature need have a lowering effect; but I think the general tendency
on the popular mind, if occupied exclusively with things of sense,
would be to loosen its already feeble hold on the things of the spirit.
The more I write, the more I feel that words serve to darken know¬
ledge, instead of to elucidate it. The application of the above is, that
any belief (the less dogmatically held the better), which acts upon and
elevates the moral sense, is a wholesome and desirable adjunct to ex¬
perimental science, and that the tone of the reincarnationist, or as they
prefer to call themselves Spiritist, writers, is calculated to have that
effect, to a greater extent than any writings I have met with among those
of the opposite school of Spiritualists.
Far be it from me, however, to pretend to prescribe what form of
belief shall influence any particular mind, or to under-estimate the aims
and motives of those whose lives I would humbly seek to imitate rather
than to criticise. Emily Kislingbury.
' 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
j Sir,—If a man tries experiments in chemistry or with physical
| mediums, I cannot see that he therefore does not “ represent morality,”
| or perceive that such occupations give us any clue to his religious belief.
(i In science there is the most unswerving love of truth, for the slightest
(departure from accuracy, even by mistake, often brings great troubles in
its train. The inference is that if a man is sufficiently advanced and
civilised to be acquainted with scientific methods, that his morality and
religious ideas are of a higher order than are the opinions of those who
run after a new theological dogma called “ reincarnation,” which, how¬
ever, is greatly in advance of its predecessor, “ eternal punishment,” a
doctrine which admits no progression in any shape in the world beyond
the grave. I believe that thoughtful English Spiritualists admire the
| tone and intention of the Kardec books, but think they would be vastly
improved were the reincarnation doctrine struck out of them. P.
82
Sept. 15, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND “OFFICIAL REPORTS.”
Sir,—That the newspaper press is a valuable aid to all public bodies
that have their actions ventilated therein, I think few will question.
If all local government meetings were fully reported, many an un¬
seemly scene might never transpire, and much money would often be !
saved to the unfortunate ratepayers. When it is found that any public j
body prefers its own “official” report to the “journalistic” one, the
natural question is asked, Why 1
If the Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists is
desirous that its sayings and doings shall be known alike to the public
and the members of the Association, I am of opinion that their recent
action will completely nullify their intention. The agenda paper, in
which the “official” report appears, will only circulate among our
members. Had it appeared unofficially in The Spiritualist (as hitherto) .[
the public at large would know what the Council had done. Cannot j
the Council find a more useful method of expending its funds—say in
the promotion of Spiritualism—rather than in incurring the extra cost I
of an official report of its meetings ? The courtesy of the editor of The I
Spiritualist has been, when viewed in the light of the present method,
so much clear gain to our funds, but the money is now consumed in |
extra printing charges. I trust the matter will be reconsidered before I
long. The Spiritual public will not care much for a National Associa- |
tion that depends for publicity upon “ official reports,” prepared by “ a j
correspondence committee.” Our policy should be to win support, j
instead of weakening if. . i
Also, it is to me a matter of regret that the rule concerning the
admission of members to the Council, paid for services to the associa- j
tion, has been altered. At the time the question was mooted I ex- |
pressed my willingness to retire, and I here repeat it, as I am convinced |
the rule should be absolute, so as to debar paid members voting at or j
sitting on the Council. Absence from London prevents my presence J
at Council meetings, except on rare occasions, or else I should per- |
sonally have moved in these matters. I deem it my duty to protest I
against safe rules being departed from, and I do so trusting that a j
wiser and more liberal policy will yet prevail. J. J. Morse. i
Newcastle.
SWEDENBORGIANISM AND SPIRITUALISM. |)
Sir,—Opponents of Spiritualism frequently urge that no new know- j \
ledge, philosophical, scientific, or theological, has ever been given to the !)
world through its agency. Although the mission of Spiritualism is j (
purely of a spiritual character, to aid the development of the soul, yet ij
inquiry will show that much knowledge other than that of a theological i
character has been obtained by its means. The readers of The ij
Spiritualist will not be inclined to doubt that Swedenborg was a |j
medium and seer, the greatest, perhaps, with the exception of Andrew i)
Jackson Davis, that we have heard of. Nearly all Spiritualists have j(
read Swedenborg’s life and works, and it is unnecessary here to recapi- ij
tulate the extraordinary amount of scientific and other knowledge i)
which he exhibited. It may, however, be remarked that Swedenborg ij
anticipated La Place in the nebular hypothesis, and the theory of i
evolution as a grand whole is to be found in his writings. The great I j
seer wrote very extensively on theology, and, as all are aware, a sect i j
called “The New Church” now exists to disseminate Swedenborg’s ij
theological opinions. In science and philosophy Swedenborg’s mind ||
was free from preconceived notions, and he could therefore be truly | j
inspired; but his condition does not appear to have been so favourable i j
as regards religious truth. Here he erred in assuming the infallibility j
of the Jewish scriptures. By a method peculiarly his own, he en- jj
deavoured to make a large portion of the Old Testament appear rational, j
or, to use the words of A. J. Davis, “ He clothed it in a language of j
spiritual beauty, of which it is utterly unworthy.” Swedenborg, it H
should be recollected, had not the advantage of having perused the |
sacred writings of other nations, especially the Hindus, and therefore it |
was easy for him to fall into the error that the Universal Mind had j
specially favoured a certain quarter of our little planet, and delivered jj
his last will and testament to a few Jews. In the face of the light we jj
now have in spiritual matters, there is little excuse, however, for the jj
blindness of “New Churchmen’’in spreading the great Swede’s reli- j
gious opinions, or holding him up as an infallible (or something akin to j j
it) and specially favoured prophet. The spirit of his philosophy is j
against the technical sectarian dogmas which his followers promulgate, jj
One of their articles of faith is that even in the next world some souls j
who are in “ falsities ” continue in them, and develope in evil for ever ! j j
This is pretty, much the same as the doctrine of eternal torment, with j
this difference, that the lost in the “ hells ” ultimately come to like it! j
A Swedenborgian writer, attempting apparently to reply to Spiritualists j
on the eternal progression and ultimate salvation of all souls, asks us j j
“if we ever heard of darkness developing into light,” or “evil into jj
goodness.” Now, Spiritualists have never taught that “ evil ’’developes j j
into “ goodness,” but hold that the condition out of which evil or mis- j j
direction arises can be changed, and this effected by the growth of the j j
moral and spiritual faculties of the mind. Mental philosophy teaches j j
the same thing, and the history of the race proves a gradual ad- jj
vancement in mental and moral power. Surely in the nekt world jj
a spirit whose mental faculties, owing to hereditary organisation jj
or other circumstances are undeveloped, will not be prevented jj
from growing to the “stature of a perfect man” because he jj
has been unable to swallow certain technical doctrines? The very best jj
men cannot complete the circle of their development in this life; and if i
spiritual growth is the law all will grow. The Universal Mind must be jj
perfectly impartial—perfect in wisdom and love; and as this dogma of j
“ growing in evil for ever ” is contrary to our highest conceptions of the j
Divine Mind it is false. Swedenborg himself taught that the highest ;
angels visited the lowest hells. What for? Not for curiosity, and to ij
harp afterwards on their “ falsities,” but undoubtedly to aid their spiritual H
advancement. It is absurd of these people to take the assertions of
Swedenborg on undeveloped souls remaining always undeveloped and
losing the little good they possess in order to reduce their character to a
“ Unity.” This view makes God a gigantic demon. If the sources of
evil and error are removed, and the Divine influence fall upon them, as
it does on all here, they must progress, especially so when, according to
Swedenborg himself, it is the mission of the highest sphere of angels to
operate on the lowest, the highest being in the most positive relation¬
ship to the lowest, and, consequently having the most power for good
over it. Herbert Spencer, our great philosopher, teaches that ulti¬
mately in this world, by the law of growth, the “Ideal Man” will be
developed. He says : “ All imperfection is unfitness to the conditions
of existence. This unfitness must consist either in having a faculty or
faculties in excess, or in having a faculty or faculties deficient—or both.
A faculty in excess is one which the conditions of existence afford full
exercise to, and a faculty that is deficient is one from which the condi¬
tions of existence demand more than it can perform. But it is an
essential principle of life that the faculty to which circumstances do not
allow full exercise diminishes, and that the faculty on which circum¬
stances make excessive demands increases. And so long as this excess
and this deficiency continue, there must continue decrease at the one end,
and growth at the other. Finally, all excess and all deficiency must
disappear; that is, all unfitness must disappear; that is, all imperfection
must disappear. Thus the ultimate development of the ideal man is
logically certain.” This argument is equally applicable to the soul in
Hades. Now, these Swedenborgians—especially their priests—are con¬
tinually attacking Spiritualism, and alleging that Spiritualists are
inspired by “ demons.” It is a pity but that our critics were endowed
with more common sense, a greater love for humanity, and more faith in
God than in mere books. Spirituality of mind is the very thing they
appear to lack. They seem to think, like other ignorant sects, that they
perform a religious act by praising the “Word,” and talking such non¬
sense as that the Great Infinite Mind condensed Himself and appeared
to us in the form of a human personage—Jesus Christ. This, of course,
is putting their proposition without sophistry and the usual jargon.
In conclusion, I would advise these new church priests to acquire
humility of mind, and not to dogmatise and exhibit the spiritual pride
they do; to use their Reason properly, and not pervert it to patch up
traditional and erroneous views; to accept truth instead of authority,
and not authority as truth ; in short, to follow Swedenborg’s advice and
cultivate an “affection for truth for its own sake—that is, to love
Truth because it is truth; for whatever is loved enters with light into
the mind, and this is eminently the case when that which is loved is
truth, because all truth is in light.” An Admirer of Swedenborg.
Sunderland.  
EXPERIENCES OF A SEER.
Sir,—You say that you do not understand the idea I intend to convey
by my statement about forms being possibly reflected by an “ aura.”
You may observe that throughout my letter I used the words “ aura ”
and “ spiritual envelope ”—the fluidic garment of the soul—as synony¬
mous terms. I may have been wrong in this; but if I have not, I am
afraid that I shall not be able to make my meaning clearer. The data
from which I drew my conclusion consisted in my having repeatedly
seen the body of an apparition—say of a man—resolve itself into a
series of pictures which have been identified as illustrative of some
person’s earth life, my description of the apparition having first been
recognised as that person’s self. One part of the apparition—to make,
if possible, the matter more plain—would, while I surveyed it, assume
the appearance of a landscape; another would take the shape of a house
or a town; others would represent human beings; and, what is more,
the whole of these would not appear as mere pictures, but as tangible
realities. Such is the nature of the phenomena by which I have been
enabled to read the lives of many people, both in the flesh and in spirit
land, and such, I suspect, are the kinds of phenomena witnessed by
other clairvoyants. I would like to have the views of other clairvoyants
on this subject. Mrs. Woodforde, I imagine, or Mrs. Baker-Howarth,
might have something interesting to tell us. Of course, I am not always
able to retain an apparition before me till I thus dissect it. In general
the various scenes are only observed one after the other, and often they
come and go too rapidly to be described at all. Joseph Skipsey.
Ashington Colliery, Northumberland.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE PRESS.
Sir,—The following assertions contained in an article in to-day’s
Saturday Review, headed “Modern Witchcraft,” deserve some notice.
I content myself with questions of fact, as the theoretical views of'the
writer are unworthy of criticism.
1. “Let any one of the same build as the medium attempt the
raising of a very lightly-made chair—a feat to which great importance
is attached—and he will find that it is neither inexplicable nor very
hard to accomplish.”
A. Yes, if he takes hold of the chair. Let me remark that the
Saturday Review used to be written in the English language, and that
it is difficult to comprehend what “ the raising ” and “ very lightly ”
signify.
2. [The table] “ has certain supports which differ from those of
ordinary tables.”
A. This is formally and materially untrue.
3. “ It has also a covering, which is removed after the sitters have
taken their places.”
A. The table has been inspected by me without the cover.
4. “ The table is made of a peculiarly close-grained wood, and is of
extraordinary slight construction.”
A. The table is made of ash, and is of especially solid and good
construction. The workman who made it certainly put good wood in,
Sept. 15, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST
83
5. % The handwriting [of the long messages] is absolutely different j
from that of the shorter messages.”
A. Sometimes it is similar, sometimes identical.
6. “ The medium always sits and places the slate at the same corner I
of the table.”
A. Not the case.
7. “ His performance is conducted at the | Spiritualists’ Hotel.’ ”
A. This is needlessly offensive to other persons, and implies covertly j
a suspicion of complicity which those concerned will doubtless indig- j
nantly reject. There is no “ Spiritualists’ Hotel.”
Let me, in conclusion, while disclaiming any desire to apply any I
epithets to the writer, observe that if I saw him in Regent-street, with
Ananias on his right arm and Sapphira on his left, there would un- i
doubtedly be a nice family party of congenial minds. C. C. B.
FORMS OR LAWS OF NATURE. j )!
Sir,—I have read Dr. Garter Blake’s article with much attention, j<i
but fail to see what it is he means by the term “ form.” Lord Bacon j|j
praised Democritus for referring all effects or phenomena to matter, |5i
and as being the father of experimental philosophy. He praised Plato j u
for his recognising that the discovery of forms was the true object of | j]
philosophy, but said that the value of his opinion was lost in supposing | )i
forms to be abstractions and formative agents, and not determined by j||
matter. If a form be not a law of nature it is a mere fiction, and, as j)j
Dr. Blake well knows, Bacon set it down that these forms or laws can m
only be discovered by a method of induction. But if my friend has |j|
made any other discovery of any other means, I shall be delighted to |)|
hear all about it. Bacon’s words are, “ Plato supposed forms were the j)j
true objects of knowledge, but lost the real fruit of his opinion by j (j
considering forms as absolutely abstracted from matter, and not !jj
confined and determined by matter : and so turning his opinions upon i) j
theology, wherewith all his natural philosophy is infected.” For when |{|
“Folly is worshipped,” he says, “it is, as it were, a plague-spot upon j)j
the understanding.” Now, in natural philosophy—Spiritualism is no j)j
exception—all “ metempirical ” conceptions and metaphysical fancies | j i
must be rejected, and any hypothesis must be considered as merely j)i
provisional and as suggestive of inquiry. j)!
Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S. jjj
Boulogne-sur-Mer.   ! j I
mr. c. e. williams’s fifth visit to Holland. v . jjj
Sir,—This year, again, I will give a few facts which merit the !)j
attention of my co-workers, and consider them in connection with some
suggestions lately mooted among Spiritualists, or printed in the |jj
Spiritual papers. My English brethren may feel sure that we Dutch- |)j
men observe coolly, and draw our conclusions after calm reflection ; we | j i
also prefer facts as the basis for our ideas. jjj
Here are some few only of the things which occurred during the !|j
fifth visit to Holland of your good medium, Mr. C. E. Williams. j(j
The medium sat in the dark circle, with Mr. H. G. Becht (positiveness jji
itself) at his right hand. As the test given by the spirits happened j)j
between those two persons, I need not speak about the other sitters, jjj
among whom was myself. The spirit Peter asked, by the direct voice, j j |
if the ring test was desired. The answer, naturally, was “ Yes,” but j) j
there was no ring on the table. At the request of Peter, Mr. Becht jjj
stood up, and lent his chair to the spirit, after having pushed it away i j j
with his leg as far as possible, quite out of the reach of the medium, jji
and in the direction of the door. Some seconds later the chair was - jjj
heard moving. Mr. Becht felt it pressed against his left arm, and, jjj
naturally, was “ all attention.” He held the medium firmly, but all jjj
these precautions did not prevent the spirits from hanging the chair on jjj
Mr. Becht’s arm. A light was struck, and we saw the chair there, j i
There was only one way to explain the thing, viz., “Spiritual mani- jjj
festation,” unless one should think Mr. Becht an imbecile, who does jjj
not know what he does, or a cheat, who likes (without the smallest jji
interest in so doing) to deceive his co-workers by aiding another cheat, jjj
named Williams. We who know and witnessed the facte should not \{\
like the latter explanation. > , jjj
I will tell you another fragment of a seance, at which, also, no tests j j j
were applied ; it was a dark cabinet seance, in which it is so very easy j j j
to play tricks, as all will readily agree. John King came out and jjj
showed himself behind the chairs of the sitters at the left side of the , j[j
cabinet, while at the same time—I mean, positively, the same time, jjj
and during a considerable length of time, which enabled us to observe jjj
accurately—Peter was working at the right side of the circle, speaking, jjj
patting the sitters on their faces, or laying both his hands together jjj
on the top of the ladies’ or gentlemen’s heads. Here, also, two jjj
individuals were at work. Sceptics may explain it by saying we cut jjj
the medium in two pieces, like a polype, every part acting in its jjj
own way. . jj]
Another fact. I was invited to stand upon the small table, and, I jjl
assure you, nobody could stand near me ; it was quite impossible. A. jjj
spirit hand took mine up to the ceiling, then extended it in a direction jjj
opposite to the cabinet, and over the heads of the sitters. How can j j j
we explain this in any other way than as a Spiritual manifestation ? It jjj
was no test, to be sure, for the medium sat quite free. But if the fact j j
given is no test, I do not know what is a test, for nobody standing on jjj
a chair near the table could reach the height of my hand, nor extend it j j j
at that height over the heads of the sitters. It is simply a fact. Of ijj
course, sceptics must deny such things. jj j:
Yet another. Williams was lying quietly on a sofa behind a curtain, jjj
and was seen together with John King, who bent over his medium and jjj
illuminated him with his marvellous light. No mistake was possible, jjj
for there was the medium’s light-coloured coat and pantaloons, his jjj
whole form sharply drawn against the black velvet of the sofa. This jjj
happened several times in my* house. iy
Now a few final remarks. I should like, certainly, that the phe- !
nomena could occur, as a rule, in the light, and that the strongest
tests could always be applied to mediums ; but it seems to me that it
is unwise to reject altogether the dark sittings. If you nourish any
doubt about the genuineness of any phenomenon in the dark, then
simply reject it. Study calmly, with perseverance, and again and
again. We must take the conditions as they are, and wait patiently
for improvement.
The fact that in dark seances tricks can be performed, seems to me
no reason for rejecting them entirely, and for neglecting this side of
our difficult study. Still, if you doubt a fact, reject it, and accept only
the things you feel sure to be genuine. Exposure of sham media is a
very good thing, but be prudent in such matters, and give the proofs
of charges against tricking media. The fact that spirits can make
their media play tricks is not yet sufficiently considered ; in such cases
the media are innocent. The question whether their “ double ” is at
work is, also, an interesting point to study. I find dark seances very
interesting, as a means to learn about the individuals of the spheres,
and their power over earthly things and persons. That controlling
spirits can exercise power over persons should be a point of interest to
the physician, to the lawgiver, and to every thinker and truth-seeker ;
the fact that in the spheres, as well as on earth, quacks and cheats are
found, is an interesting one, and the character-study of such beings is
not to be neglected. For these reasons I find the dark sittings useful
in their way ; and I find it wise to take the conditions as they are, the
more so as we cannot force or change them, and we should look in
every direction in order to gain all-sided knowledge.
As to tests, I sincerely pity inveterate testers. Many media object
to them, especially when they cannot apply their schemes without
spoiling the conditions. Yet, on the other hand, I have invariably
experienced, during ray eighteen years’ investigation, that if you apply
tests beforehand, you often spoil the conditions; but if you let the
media be free, and sit in a good, harmonious circle, which keeps condi¬
tions, the spirits give tests a hundred times stronger than cords, much
more attractive than sealing-wax, and more close than a bag. If you
sit thus, they feel pleased in trying to convince you, and do all they
can, as I have again seen in the recent behaviour of our dear spirit
friends, John and Peter, to whom we owe our best thanks, also to our
mediunrfriend, Charles E. Williams.
I close with friendly greeting to my English co-workers.
A. J. Riko.
The Hague, Holland, Oude Mol Straat 8a, August, 1876.
THE TURKISH ATROCITIES—APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—The frightful cruelties and privations to which the Bulgarians
have been subjected, and the immediate and dire need of the survivors,
have induced this appeal to Spiritualists, for contributions to supple¬
ment—as their gift—the national fund about to be raised.
The under-mentioned ladies and gentlemen have been invited to form
a committee:—
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.; Messrs. Charles Blackburn, Alexander
Calder, Keningale Cook, N. Fabyan Dawe, Desmond Fitz-Gerald, S. C.
Hall, J. Ivimey, H. D. Jencken, Enmore Jones, George King, Andrew
Leighton, J. N. T. Martheze, Gerald Massey, J. Ridley, E. D. Rogers,
Martin Smith, G. Nelson Strawbridge, A. C. Swinton, W. Tebb, James
Wason, H. Withall; Mrs. C. Berry, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mrs. S.
C. Hall, Mrs. Michell, Miss Kislingbury.
Subscriptions will be thankfully received by the Hon. Sec.,
Thf.o. Taunton.
Raymond Lodge, Versailles-road, Anerley, S.E.;
or, 150, Leadenhall-street, E.O.
The monthly soirees of the National Association of Spiritualists will
be resumed for the winter. The first of the new course will be held on
the 4th of October, and Mrs. Weldon (Miss Treherne) has kindly con¬
sented to attend and to sing thereat.
The “ Times ” on Hallucinations.—The Times, in a review of Dr.
Lee’s book on The Supernatural, says:—“ The hallucinations which
occur in states of disordered health have the unvarying character that
they are drawn from the past experience or reading of those who see
them, and this, so far as we know, applies equally to ghosts. No ghost
has ever been described as presenting an aspect or suggesting an idea
which was not manifestly derived from the occurrences of this world,
and which was not, in all reasonable probability, within the previous
knowledge of the ghost seer. The poetical dreams of Swedenborg, the
marvels of old women, and the doings of the latest Spiritualistic seance
are all alike in this, that they have never introduced a new idea to man¬
kind, and have never failed to show that the human imagination,
although it can alter and rearrange, is absolutely powerless to create.
When ghost stories thus bear the trade-mark of their human origin, and
when they are in their nature undistinguishable from occurrences with
which every physician is familiar, it is gratuitous to attribute to them a
supernatural origin; and even those who cannot themselves explain
them will be led by common sense to feel that they are capable of being
explained. The very capriciousness and the utter uselessness of the
alleged occurrences will forbid any person of decently reverent mind to
attribute them to a Divine origin; and in most cases they are the mani¬
fest results of local legends, acting upon brains commonly besotted by
ignorance, and almost always unmanned by terror or physical disease.
The large tribe of nocturnal apparitions, the \ ghosts ’ seen in ‘ haunted ’
bed-chambers, may with some confidence be relegated to the category of
‘ suggested’ dreams, which terminate a troubled sleep by a paroxysm of
fright, and leave the sleeper with an impression of having seen some¬
thing, which is so vivid that it is difficult for the superstitious to shake
it off. Everybody knows that it is not always easy, on first waking after
a vivid dream, to be quite sure that the phantoms of the half-resting
brain had no objective existence.”
84
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Sept. 15, 1876,
SPIRIT POETRY.
The following inspirational poem was given a few weeks ago through
the mediumship of Miss Lizzie Doten, and was reported for the
Banner of Light, by Mr. John W. Day:—
THE SECRET OF WILL.
“ I and my Father are one.”—John x. 30.
It was midnight, and out of that deep
Whose waves through the Infinite roll,
Which men in their blindness call sleep,
I awoke to the life of the soul;
And a feeling of fear and of dread,
In that land of the boundless unknown,
Came over my soul as I said—
I am here with the shadows alone !
Then a nearness—a mystical sense
Of a Presence unseen, made me pause
And thrill with a feeling intense,
Like a magnet that quickens and draws.
The shadows grew restless and swayed
Their pinions, made ready for flight;
Then silently rose and obeyed
A Presence, commanding the light.
Did I dream ? did I surely behold
A Being resplendent in grace,
Whose hair was like sunlight and gold,
With the glory of God on his face ?
And I, a poor, wandering child,
Though stricken with wonder and fear—
Did I dare to look up as he smiled,
And answer his call to draw near ?
Oh, love is a mystery deep!
The longing and lone know its voice;
’Tis a magnet of infinite sweep,
And the heart that is drawn knows no choice.
Oh I gazed in his luminous eyes
With the love and the trust of a child,
So Godlike, so lofty and wise,
So tender and sweet as he smiled.
I felt I was worthless and weak,
Defiled by earth’s darkness and dust,
But my spirit grew earnest to speak
In the strength and the fulness of trust:
II Oh thou who wast born of that light
Where no darkness can ever abide,
Wilt thou hear if I question aright,
And answer: “ Who art thou] ” I cried.
Then his voice came as gentle and low,
As tender and soothingly sweet,
As a stream in its musical flow,
As the rain with its soft silver feet:
“ A spirit—a spirit—no more
Must thou question, dear child of the earth ;
In vain wilt thou seek to explore
The secrets of souls and their birth.
“ But the voice of thy pleading is heard,
The cry of thy soul for the light;
Lo ! I am the answering Word
Which quickens thy blindness to sight;
Lay thy hand, then, unshrinking in mine,
Till the depths of thy being shall thrill;
Oh, Neophite, here at the shrine,
Discern thou the secret of Will! ”
A wave from life’s infinite sea
Seemed to sweep me tumultuously o’er;
Not yet was my spirit made free
From the earth and its storm-clouded shore; ■
But I knew I had found what I sought,
That my spirit was guided aright,
And those wondrous pulsations had caught
Which quicken the children of light.
“Dear child,” said the spirit, “ be brave
Thy mission on earth to fulfil,
And know that no soul is a slave
Who hath fathomed the secret of will.
Farewell!’’—And he vanished—away
Like a star that hath drank its own light.
Then I turned to my dwelling of clay,
To the earth and the shadows of night.
But I know, as I never have known,
That the life which we live is a dream;
That the spirit is never alone,
And we all are far more than we seem;
For oft while we battle with Fate,
With courage undaunted and strong,
We hear from the “ Beautiful Gate,”
Sweet echoes of music and song.
We shall plant the white lilies of Peace
On the grave of our deadliest ill,
When our idle complaining shall cease,
And we work with the Infinite Will.
We can tread where the great of all time,
In the fulness of freedom have trod,
And can say with a meaning sublime,
From the depths of the soul: “ I am God I”
During the winter Mrs. Weldon will inaugurate a series of meetings
on Mondays, at the Langham Hall; they will be known as “Mrs.
Weldon’s Sociable Evenings,” and the admittance will be by invitation.
Various attractions in the shape of music and singing will be provided.
At one of them Mr. W. H. Harrison will give a short address, containing
evidence that Spiritualism deserves investigation; this will be followed
by a discussion.
Dr. Stanhope Templeman Speer and our contributor known as
“ M. A. (Oxon.) ” have been in the North of Scotland during the past
few weeks. Mr. Martin R. Smith has also been in Scotland during the
present autumn. Mr. and Mrs. William Crookes, Mr. and Mrs. A. R.
Wallace, and Mr. W. H. Harrison have been in Glasgow during the
past week, at the meeting of the British Association. Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory is on a visit to Sir William Dunbar, near Basingstoke. Baron
Dirckinck-Holmfeld, after a short visit to London, has returned to
Holstein. The Countess of Caithness and the Duke de Medina Pomar
are at Barrogill Castle, Caithness-shire. The Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan
has left London for the United States. Mrs. Honywood has returned
to London from the Continent.
The Change at Death :—“ From the surf-beaten beach and the
white terror of underlying reefs ; from battle-fields, where life was flung
away as if it had no value; from palace, house, and cottage bed, from
study and street, from every locality beneath that rolling sun, men have
gone up to God. And all these, the strong, the passionate, and the
loving, took all their powers and feelings with them. Upon the smaller
the larger life was on the instant grafted. They did find their growth
‘ in the twinkling of an eye.’ They were all changed as the bud is
changed when it blossoms, as the sun is changed when it sails out from
behind the veil of the eclipse. There was no lapse of power, no inter¬
ruption of the faculties, no cessation of thought, no ebb to the majestic
current of their lives in death.”—W. JB. H. Murray.
An Apparition.—Dr. Ditson, in The Banner of Light, says that
the Revue Spirite, in an article on “ Apparitions from the Other
World,” recounts what the Abb& de St. Pierre has to say in his works
on this subject—of “a singular adventure which took place in 1697.”
Two worthy students, fifteen years of age, M. Bezul and M. Des-
fontaines, much attached to each other, having read of engagements
between persons, that the one who died first should appear to the
other, made a similar contract, wrote out two papers to that effect,
signed them with their blood, and exchanged them. Some months
afterwards, Desfontaines was called away to Caen, and letters of mutual
regard passed between these friends. One day, when in the grounds of
the college, young Bezul had a strange feeling come over him, a deaf¬
ness and faintness he could not account for. The following day, at the
same hour, the same sensations were experienced, when he saw Des¬
fontaines approaching. He beckoned him to a seat by himself on a
bench, and made place for his comrade. As Desfontaines did not
come, Bezul went to him, when the former seized him by the arm,
hurried him away some thirty paces distant, and then said : 01 pro¬
mised to come to you if I died first. 1 was drowned yesterday at this
very hour in the river of Caen. The Abbe de Menil-Jean was my
companion. He dived for me, and I grasped his foot, and in shaking
me off he struck me forcibly in the stomach, and I sank to the
bottom.” . . . M. Bezul became afterwards the cure of Vologne,
where he was much beloved for his many virtues, .... Walter
Scott attributes such things to hallucination, but how could M. Bezul
see the shade of his friend, and learn all the particulars of his death,
while no official detail of the event reached him till some days after¬
wards ]
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
We have to complain of occasional, though rare, breaches of literary etiquette,
which ought not to be possible at all among Spiritualists. Communications
are sometimes sent to us as .if they were special contributions to this
journal, the information being withheld that they are merely circulars sent
to two ox-more periodicals at the same time. Surreptitious acts are to be
deprecated. A circular may be welcome, and extracts sometimes made
from it, but it should be honestly marked as a circular.
Sept. 15, 1876.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting .and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORt.D, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, P.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.Gt.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, IT. S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Yol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritnal-
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M, King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of Die
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supernaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient inteiilgence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com-
mumcatibu should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and littie understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.: or 8s. per single
volume.
POEM8 OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7». fid. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM, MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. 0. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about tl;e world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN- An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPA.RITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wr6y Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle,
fis.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M, Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BV ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By O. M. Bumett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. fid.) 4s.,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
■ “ ' II.
III, „
IV. „ . ,
.. V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography oi A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . .
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
s. d.
16 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
3 6
3 C
7 8
3 6
7 0
2 0
3 6
2 6
3 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spimtualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beai) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 0
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Trans.ated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 8
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 C
Awas-I-Hind'; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. ; f' 3 C
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . ■ 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A. . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... . . . , 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools , , i q
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. II. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M,
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per-
. sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND QURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H: Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.'
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock, 2s,
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST
Sept. 154 1876,
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM. PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C, . .
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above, office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publisldng business, are not in any way connected with each
other.] ■
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS. FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. . Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far,beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press.- This volume contains the
gems of the. inspirational utterances, given ' chiefly before
public audiences, under direfet spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur,' and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. ' The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtraj ed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, H.S.: Colby and Rich. London Spirit-'
uniisf Office.
QPI RITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
IO U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character'of Ihe paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into-the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual • Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices,. 18, .Exchange-street, .and.24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
o fsubscription, in advance,T8s'. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Eussell-street,
Lohdqn, W.C. ' 
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D„
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paiis, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin
and Florence..
The Milan Society - for the Encouragement" of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about an’xhal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiotity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newppaper Branch Office.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND
EFFECTS, by Babon Dirckinck-Holmfeld. A review
of this pamphlet appeared in the March number of The
Spiritual Magazine of this year. May be had of W. H.
Harrison, 38,. Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Price
6d., post free, 7d: ; :   ' '
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione; via
Bogino, No. 23. . •
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kardec. Translated by ANNA
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.  ;
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branco Office.
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from bistorical evidence,- of. immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have ihe same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consist of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, j et which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms thaitbestrongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED BY THE ,
. .MUSIC AND' ART .ASSOCIATION,
39, Great Marlborough Street.
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE.. Arranged by E. Tinel as a
Pianoforte Duet and. Vocal Solo. Price 6s.
L WEN EZIANA'. Pianoforte Solo, 4s;
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March,~4s.
OFFERTOR1UM. For.Organ, 4s. -
JQANrOF ARC.. French VocaTScore, IDs.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES- OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin-
. cipal Music, arrange i by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty’the Queen and H.R.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price .2s. 6d. each. Nos, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price 5s.
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
■ commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s.
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Chidiock Tichborne, 4s.
Go,'Lovely Rose, 4s. - cvyiv-*’'”
A Series of 12 Part Songs, 6d. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
BY MISS TBEHERNE ' (MRS. WELDON). — The Brook,
woras by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Sbir, words by Victor
Hugo (English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.
Heather, Danish Melody, Kjerulf, 4s.
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words, by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
To the Cuckoo, fid.
JOHN UR1CH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien's
Song, 4s., Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is-no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAMILTON QLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s* ‘
ALFRED CELLIER:-rfFlower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon,-4s. ,
Subscribers’ Name’s received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s.'6d.
All the ~muiic published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
, benefit of Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE ' MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART' ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London;
by william h. Harrison.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.G.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, TJ.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“ As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-cooceived ideas, and the
result of his examination has been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Variey, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
:-hall not now enter. We will only say that bis descriptions of
facts are couched in a modera e and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience, led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book ( which is singuiarly free from dogmatic pretension) is'
rigorously logical.’-’—-Public Opinion.
“At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims'any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion' down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
: “ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales liaily
News
Limp cloth, red 'edges. Brice Is. Id., post free,
w. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
rr»HE RELIGIO - PHILOSOPHICAL
JL JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modern Spiritualisio. Established in 1865.
Now in its twentieth volume. Bublished every Saturday by
the Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
PRIMITIYE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Seeond Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modem . Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS. '
I,—Spirit Writing.  '
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power^
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience.
. VI.—Dreams and Visions
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.:
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World. ,
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s '6d, each, post freel 11s/6d., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal,
appears on the 1st and 15th of,eVery month. Price
2d., or 5 francs yearly. Belgium—37, Rue Florimont, Lifege.
London—The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Reflexionen aus der GEISTER-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Josefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. AMonthly Journal
devoted to the investigation'of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of'psychic life. Edited-by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly —Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. ' London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL' SQUARE, W.C.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without^the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, hv the
geherous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above. Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should he made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. C. Burke.
FURNISHED APARTMENTS - to LET,
consisting of pleasant Sitting Room and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. Near to
Rail and Omnibus. C. P., 102, Clarendon-road, Netting hill, W
By Royal Letters Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH .OF THE HAIR, AND"
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is q Preventive of Goldin the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Laee or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all oilier mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis..
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. fid. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London,'S.W.; 'or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Cjre Spintalxsf fUtosppr.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
YJ crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not Jost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London : and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wedtet day
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ’ will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Bublishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen. Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
