AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
rBEGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 171.—(VoL. VII.—No. 23.) LONDON: DECEMBER 3, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
©otuents.
Spirit-Photography in Naples. By Signor Datniani   265
A Seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’sMessrs. Moody and Sankey
“ interviewed ” by a Medium'.  ... 265
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris   ... 266
Spiritualism in South Africa   .~ ... 266
The 1875 Conference of Spiritualists:—The Importance of the Dis¬
semination of Spiritualism as a Religious Influence—The British
National Association of Spiritualists, its Objects and Interests—
Next Year’s Conference—Future Work of the National Association
in the Provinces ...    ...       266
Spiritualism and Women’s Rights... '   ...    270
Spiritualism in Dalston:—Fifth Anniversary Meeting of the Dalston
Association—American Spiritualism—The Manners and Customs
of the Americans    271
Poetry:—On a Fair Infant gone to the World of Light  273
Correspondence:—The Treatment of Mediums—A Proposed Spirit¬
ualist Institution in Manchester—The Vision of the Lotus Flower
—Reviewing a Reviewer—Caligraphy as a Test of Character ... 273
Provincial News:—Liverpool, A Fracas at a Seance—Newcastle-on-7h/ne
-^Sunderland—Southampton, A Sconce in the Light  275
The Investigation of Spiritualism at St. Petersburg University  276
Experiments in Mesmerism   ...      276
Paragraphs:—Sunday Services at the Cleveland Hall, 270; Spiritual
Literature in Australia, 271; National Association Winter Meet¬
ings, 272; The “Harrison Testimonial” Fund, 272; Mr. Morse in
the Provinces; Cured by Dr. J. R. Newton  276
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—Zames Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Oasson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
Of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—-By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
8.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
BIRKBECK' BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four pbr Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits. •
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
urchases and Sales of British. Foreign, ana Colonial Bonds Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool. 11 a,m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. J. Coates, Principal.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
N.B.—The Subscription for the Current Year, 1876, will not bh
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOINING AFTER THIS DATE.'
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
WINTER MEETINGS.
During the winter months meetings will be held at the rooms of the
Association for reading and discussing papers on Spiritualism and kindred
topics. They will commence on Monday, November 22nd, at eight o'clock,
and be held fortnightly till Christmas, and afterwards as may be found
convenient. Friends having papers to communicate are requested to send
them at an early date to the secretary, at 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C.
In the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THB
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angd in the
tenth state.
Birth
Contents.
CHAP. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
2. —The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
3. —Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
4. —Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
6.—The purpose Of God in creation.
6. —The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
7. —The Human Body and Spiritual Planes,
8. —The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
9. —Spiritual Marriages.
10. —Spiritual Symbols.
11. —The Lost Orb. Part 1.
12. —The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
13. —The Lost Orb. Part II.
14. —Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
16.—The Lost Orb. Parc III.
16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjo " treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, aud not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of tho volume Gs., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERAOSTER-ROW, LONDON; AND
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, W.O.
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :—Simfkin, Marshall & Oo.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate description
of manifestations recently produced by spirits, and simultaneously
witnessed by the Author and other observers in London. By William H.
Harrison. Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
w
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
* (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester. •
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lillan-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Eitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.K.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Bamster-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Kamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin B., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road, Finch-
ley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. 1L, Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Kichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, P. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-'terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Pitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North Brixton,S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D„ G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 4T, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt.,1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, Lonaon-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogefs, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A.,LL.D., &c., 17, Trafaigar-road, Old Kent-road, S E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F;, Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Rtrawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mlldmay-park, N.
Theobald Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J. Shadweli, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, S.W., and
3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater. W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs. Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.I. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,near
Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan de Rasslm Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou, Constanti¬
nople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, Nevsky Prospect
6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EIysees, Paris.
Mme.de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EIysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York ; U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mr*. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York, U.S.A.
A. J. Rlko, Esq . Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C . Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Dec. 3, 18J5.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse, 85, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H- Terry, Esq",, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Ley marie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New-York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterherai, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, I73,jiue St. Honore,-Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
Allied Societies,
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis Roberts,
68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits et Magnetimie. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton Prochaszka
Josefstadt, Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite Spirit¬
ualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid students
and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of syste¬
matic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic: to
make known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to direct
attention to the beneficial influence which those results are calculated to exercise
upon social relationships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spi
ritualists of every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not,
and all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year 1873,
at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which all the great
Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United
Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the annual subscription to the
National Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year. Each
member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is eligible for election to all
offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wishing to become
allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at
the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wohum-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REOAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Rcdcliffe-gardens, South
Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL TRANCE
SPEAKER, has returned to England, and is now prepared to re¬
ceive calls as usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow,
London, E,
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily, from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of ’diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
THE BOY MEDIUMS.—Bamford Brothers, Physical
Mediums, will give Seances as followsOn Monday and Wednesday
evenings, at 7 o’clock p.m., admission 2s. 6d.; on Saturday evenings, at
7, is. 2$, Pool-street, Sutton, Macclesfield.
jl of ifo [frogrm of ifo Jt^mo anil Jlifiijs of ^jttqitealiom.
VOLUME ^EVEJ^. JMUJVIBEFj TWENTY-THREE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3rd, 1873.
SPIRIT-PHOTOGRAPHY IN NAPLES.
BT SIGNOR D AMI AM.
As in the course of time all things develope, we have
now at last obtained in Naples the so much desired
spirit photographs, and so powerfully and easily did they
come at first, as to augur well for the sequel. A clever
and energetic young German photographer, having
seen my collection of spirit-photographs, was so much
struck with the marvellous fact, that he proposed to
make experiments on the terrace of my house, provided
I invited some mediums to be present. His offer was
accepted, and in the middle of October, I had six
mediums awaiting the photographer, namely, the
Baroness Cerrapica, Major Yigilante, Canon Fiore, and
three lady mediums, in addition. On the first plate
there appeared a column of light; on the second a
globe of light over the head of one of the lady mediums ;
on the third the same globe, with a spot in the middle;
on the fourth, the spot more pronounced; on the fifth
and last, a bold attempt at a head was visible in the
middle of the light.
A week later a new series of experiments followed,
and as the spirits told us that the mediums were too
many, we reduced them to three. The first plate pre¬
sented nothing on it but the sitters; but on the second
and third there appeared the head of a malp spirit, of
most prepossessing appearance, perfectly well defined,
and hovering above the sitters, but three or four times
the size of the heads of all present. The third and
last trial was about ten days ago, when in two succes¬
sive experiments there came on the plate a gigantic
figure, dressed as a nun, with a rosary in her hand.
This nun was the same that one of the mediums, a
clairvoyante, bad seen a few days previously, and
described as showing herself at the window of an
adjacent church, in an attitude of prayer.
It is most important to mention that these spirit-
photographs were produced under the strictest test-
conditions. Three gentlemen, Professor Caroli, Baron
Garofalo, and Doctor Perilli, the former a Spiritualist,
and the latter two woful sceptics, followed the photo¬
graphic operations in all their minutest details, from
the clear glass to the development of the plate, and
would swear to the perfect genuineness of the opera¬
tions. I have presented seven of these specimens to Mr.
Charles Blackburn, of Manchester, whom you have
kindly introduced to me; and knowing the interest you
and many English brother Spiritualists take in the pro¬
gress of our science throughout the world, I have
requested him to show them to you, and to leave them
at the office of the British Association of Spiritualists
for inspection. The nun is not amongst these specimens,
bad weather having prevented the printing of that
picture until now.
I was much gratified in making the personal
acquaintance of Mr. Charles Blackburn, and I am only
sorry he remained so short a time in Naples. He left
for England on Saturday last, 20th instant.
A SEANCE AT MRS. MAKDOTJGALL GREGORY’S.
MESSRS. MOODY AND SANKEY “INTERVIEWED” BY A MEDIUM.
Last Saturday night there was a short seance at the residence of
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square,
London, W. Among the friends present were, Dr. Maurice
Davies, Mrs. Davies, Dr. Hallock, the Rev. Mr. Baynes, Mrs.
Baynes, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
The medium, Miss Fowler, passed into the trance state and the
spirit controlling her said: I see two spirits near one of the ladies
in the company; one of the spirits passed into the spirit-world
fifteen or twenty years ago ; he had something the matter with his
foot; his life in the body was a very unhappy one; he lived in the
country and departed this life at thirty or forty years of age. The
other spirit was a literary man on earth. Both seem to be sorry
for something they have done, and to be troubled by many of the
actions of their lives. The second spirit is rather tall, and stoops a
little. Both of them seem to say, “ Sorrow! Sorrow! For thirty-
five years you have had no peace in your domestic affairs. None,
None! No peace, no happiness! ” The last spirit had a long
illness before he died, and the first one made your life a cross; for
the first spirit you did everything you could. Is this true ? They
come to me but as a vision, and tell me of nothing but your thirty-
five years of unhappiness. You were married young. Books
upon books have you studied, but what pleasure have you
obtained from them ? Reading, reading, reading! It has made
but unhappiness for you. He says that in your last mission
you have failed; you have tried to perform your work, but
you had nobody to assist you; you want others to help you to raise
your own sisters. Go on with your mission. Do right; interfere with
no religion. The spirits will help you if you get other people to help
them,but spirits cannot help you alone—you must act with others and
in accordance with vour conscience. Your troubles have been allotted
to you for a motive. There is nothing evil upon earth—nothing
bad—for there must be a right and left in everything. You will
have troubles and a long cross, but do not move from place to place,
unsettled, not knowing what to do.
The lady to whom this was addressed said that every word of it
was true.
The medium afterwards said that she saw a little boy, four or
six years of age, and who when he died was quite a picture of
health.
Dr. Davies afterwards said that a little boy he once had, answered
this description.
Miss Fowler afterwards saw other spirits, but they were not
recognised.
Mr. Baynes said that if the descriptions were intended for any of
his relatives, they were altogether wrong.
The lady to whom the first message was addressed stated to the
company, and gave us permission to publish without names, that
she had been developed as a writing medium; further, that she
sent some specimens of her writing to her sons, who were Wes-
leyans, and who believed Spiritualism to be of the devil. They at
first thought of sending her to a physician, but afterwards thought
it might be best to advise her to try a parson. She accordingly
went with her daughter to see Moody and Sankey. They walked
into the “ Inquiry Room,” and Moody asked after the state of mind
of her daughter, who replied that her brothers had sent her to
talk to him about her mother, who was a Spiritualist. He replied
that that was “ a dreadful calamity,” and when he looked at her
she said, “ I am a medium.” He remarked, “ You, with your gray
hair on your head—have you children?” “Yes,” she replied,
“ ten call me mother.” “ Suppose we pray,” said he; “ have
you any objection ? ” The lady who gave us this narrative
further said, — He did not take much notice of my daughter,
I suppose because he thought she was not so wicked. “ How
long have you been a Spiritualist ? ” he added. “ Some time,” I re¬
plied. “ What do you do ? ” “ Write.” “ The spirits cannot make
you write here.” “ Yes they can; they were writing while you
were preaching, and they told me to speak to you; do you not be¬
lieve in angels ? ” Moody replied, “ I advise you to study this
sacred Book.” I said to him, “Well, I have studied it for many
years.” “ But,” said he, “ not with the humility that this book
would teach you.” “ Maybe not,” said I, as I was beginning to get
angry, “ for I prefer knowledge to humility. Would you mind
telling me how Spiritualism works in America ? ” “ 0 yes,” he re¬
marked, “ I know all about it there; nothing but misery, nothing
but sin and misery! It divides husbands from wives, and makes
the latter take to other men. It sets children against their parents,
266
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dsc. 3, 1875.
and in one town where it was prevalent every tradesman became
bankrupt." “ You take a very commercial view of the subject, Mr.
Moody,” I interposed. He did not reply to this, but asked me to
join the Christian church, and wanted to know whether I had any
objection to see a minister. “ Certainly not," 1 replied; “ as many
as you like,” upon which he took down my name and address. I
said to him, “ Now, as a gentleman, do not betray me or my affairs,
for I come to youiin confidence, because of the advice of my sons.”
Shortly afterwards a lady called upon me, and told me that he had
published a version of the matter in a little periodical called The
Christian. It seems that the fellow informed that journal that
some woman called upon him, who believed in Spiritualism, but he
soon knocked it out of her by telling her so and so.
THE PERSECUTION OE SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS..
I regret deeply to have to resume my letters to you under the
above title. Buguet’s departure to Belgium you know all about.
He is now earning his living by working hard for an ordinary
photographer in Brussels. Firman, after serving three months
and a half of the term of his six months’ sentence in the prison
of St. Pelagie, which, added to his six weeks of prison preventive,
made five months of imprisonment in all, had the rest of his term
remitted by the President of the Republic, mainly through the in¬
fluence of the kind and excellent American Minister, Mr. Wash-
b urne. But the cruel case of Leymarie remains. He was the main
object—the shining mark—of the persecution; he—the editor of the
Revue Spirite, and the successor of Allan Kardec at the head of the
cause of ‘^Spiritisme”. in France. After the confirmation by the
.Court of Appeal of his first sentence to twelve months’ imprison¬
ment, he appealed further to the Court of Cassation. The long
vacation suspended the proceedings under this appeal (or pourvoi
en cassation) for a couple of months, but the case must now
come on very soon; probably within the next fortnight; and
I tremble for the result. The Court of Cassation deals only
with legal formalities in the antecedent proceedings. It takes
no cognisance of the merits of the case, of the justice of the
sentence, or of the sufficiency of the evidence to sustain
it. Unless the appellant’s advocates in that court (and they consti¬
tute a special branch of the profession) can find a good flaw of
formality, the Court rejects, and must reject, the pourvoi, and the
sentence then becomes irrevocable. I do not find that any such
flaw has yet been found available to hang a hope upon. Buguet’s
subsequent retractation of his former evidence,is of no account in
the case before this Court. If Lachaud had at the time protested
against the manner in which the President of the Correctional
Chamber cut short the testimony of the witnesses for the defence,
or that-in which the President of the Court of Appeal excluded
(ecarle) Buguet’s letters from the case (which were conclusive of
Leymarie’s innocence), these might have constituted available
points in cassation. In England, counsel would have taken formal
exception to such flagrant violations of justice, but the system of
exceptions voted does not prevail in France. It seems that it is
now too late to take advantage of these points. I repeat that I
have the most painful forebodings of the result. And St. Pelagie
.(which is said to be the least unendurable of the prisons) will be
far worse in Winter than in summer, especially to a man of Ley¬
marie’s small and delicate frame. This winter threatens to be a
severe one. The migrating birds flew southward over Paris un¬
usually early. Firman reports that in rainy weather, at times
when the prisoners are not engaged in the workshops, the bulk of
them have no shelter, there being only a place where about 400 can
stand so closely packed that it is better to stand out in the wet and
cold, the number of the prisoners being not far from two thousand.
Would Leymarie survive a severe winter there ?
It may now be the time for some concerted petition to the Presi¬
dent of the Republic from the Spiritualists of your country, in his
favour; but it must be very prudently framed. In a day or two I
will send you over a suggestion of a proper form.
A good French medium, who has established excellent physical
manifestations in St. Petersburg, named Camille Bredif, is in Paris,
but does not dare to exhibit here fcr fear of the police. He proposes
to go to America.
Firman gives no other seances than private ones to Bullet and me.
His mediumship is reviving, but is as yet imperfect and irregular.
At times there are excellent physical manifestations, but none of
the spirits present have yet been able to show themselves material¬
ized, as before. We feel their hands, are brushed by their soft
drapery, see Camila’s light, but. do not see them, though they
try hard, and promise that later the force will fully return. The
phenomenon of the musical box carried out of the closed room, and
then brought instantaneously back, with a knock on the door to
indicate it, has occurred more than once. Voices, too, have spoken
to us. But there has been one very interesting manifestation, that
of a spirit mesmerising myself, palpably, and strongly, and repeatedly,
of which I will give you some condensed account when your
columns shall be less crowded than they now are.
J. L. O’Sullivan’.
Paris, December 1st.
SPIRITUALISM IN SOUTH AFRICA.
There being a somewhat general belief in Cape Town that Dean
Barnett-Clarke had been converted to Spiritualism, the last mail
brings the news that the following mild denial has been published
in the Cape Argus of Oct. 23rd:—
“ Sir,—I ask you for, what I shall undoubtedly have, justice at
your hands, when I request space in your columns to vindi¬
cate myself against perverted misconstructions as to my public
teachings.
“ Those who heard me can bear witness that I have not advo¬
cated, but have denounced, the dangers of that which is falsely
termed Spiritualism. I never have been at any seance. I did not
state that the pre-announcement of the racing accident was a reve¬
lation from the spirit world. I never so regarded it; and many of my
hearers will bear me witness that what I did say was this, ‘ at any
rate it was a strange coincidence.’
“I have taken up the subject not of the ‘fond invention’ of
Spiritist’s delusions, but the revealed truth as to supernatural
dealings of God with man by dreams, angelic and speptral mani¬
festations.
“ My opinions are based on the Holy Bible, on the distinct teach¬
ing of my church, as in her homilies, and at this especial crisis I
take up the subject matter so emphatically set forth by my church
in her Sunday lessons at this season.
“My reasons for so pointedly preaching on mysterious things
spiritual, are mainly these, to direct attention to that which is
lamentably ignored by many, viz., the Gospel truth as to angels
and spirits, and to lift up my voice against scepticism, materialism,
indifferentism, and superstition.
“My views are those of not only church divines, but of wise
men of the world, viz., Addison in the Spectator, and Blackstone in
his Commentanes, book IV., chapter IV. With Shakespeare, I
affirm—
“ ‘ There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.’
“ 0. W. Barnett-Clarke,
“Dean of Cape Town.
“Oct. 22nd, 1875.”
THE 1875 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In continuation of the report of the proceedings of the National
Conference of Spiritualists, held at 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C., last month, we take up the thread of the proceedings at the
point where it was broken off last week.
THE importance of the dessemination of spiritualism as a
RELIGIOUS INFLUENCE.
Mr. E. T.«Bennett and Mr. J. J. Morse having read papers upon
the above subject, on Nov. 5, under the presidency of Mr. Martin R.
Smith, as already reported, Mrs. F. M. Parkes read the following,
which has also been published in the Spiritual Magazine:—
In humble response to the demand which Spiritualism makes
upon all worthy effort, I venture to attempt a small service to our
cause, under guidance of that glorious light for which my indebted¬
ness stands most fully due, In those channels of inquiry ever open
to the willing mind, in the great resources afforded in the varied
phenomena and broad field for inquiry and contemplation offered in
the several phases of modern Spiritualism. In speaking of religion
upon the platform of universal Spiritualism, I conceive it to be
requisite to avoid, to the utmost possible extent of the speaker’s
ability, any tendency of a sectarian character. Hence, on the
present occasion, I shall for the nonce take the word religion to
signify a system for conducting our thoughts and actions in such
accord with spiritual light as is calculated to promote the moral ele¬
vation, social welfare, and future progress of man, in time and
throughout eternity.
It is obvious also, that in speaking here, I should not for one
moment attempt to define the terms or code of such a system, or I
should necessarily fall into sectarianism of some sort or other; I
therefore take for granted the truth of the proposition, that religion
is a necessary institution for the well-being of man. Next, I must
tell you, that any reference that 1 may make to the Bible, consisting
of the two books known as the Old and New Testaments respec¬
tively, shall be quite consistent with the principle I have just
expressed ; that is to say, that I shall make all such references to
these books, regarding them merely as containing records of facts,
in relation to ancient Spiritualism, which thoroughly accord with
the various phases and forms of the modern phenomena. There
are no other books so generally read, nor of such antiquity, nor so
full of facts on this subject as these, and, therefore, none so fitted to
be the text book of the Spiritualist.
In expressing these opinions, I am as sedulously desirous of
avoiding the pandering to Atheistical tendencies, as I am of steering
clear of an imbroglio with theological and sectarian theories—both
being ulterior to my position here.
Having thus, I hope, satisfactorily defined the spirit in which I
desire to express myself, I will proceed as briefly as I can.
It appears to me that our subject demands the following consi¬
derations : Firstly, the necessity for religion; secondly, the fitness
of Spiritualism to become a means of religious evidence or revela-
Dec. 3, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
267
tion; and, thirdly, Spiritualism as the most effectual means of
religious propagandism. In the first place, respecting the necessity
for religion. This, I think, all modern Spiritualists will admit; in
that sense of the word, at least, which I have used this morning
—viz., as a system for keeping our thoughts and actions in sueh
accord with spiritual light, as is calculated i to promote the moral
elevation, social welfare, and future progress of man in this world
and the next. The necessarily brief time at my disposal this
morning, renders it requisite to treat this proposition as accepted;
or, as I have before said, a given ground upon which I may advance
my further hypotheses. Now we have to consider the second pos¬
tulate, as to the fitness of Spiritualism to be a means of religious
evidence, or revelation. Jesus (of whom I speak alone in reference
to His spiritual power and teaching), relative to it, said, “And these
are the signs that shall follow them that believe. They shall cast
out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; they shall take up
serpents, and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them.
They shall lay hands on the sick and they shall recover.”—Mark
xvi. 17 and 18.
It is as customary in the East now as it was in the day that Jesus
uttered these words to call a religious man a believer, or to speak of
him as one of the faithful; and in evidence of the fact that this
belief or faith was not mere confidence in Jesus only, I refer you
to the occasion of His walking upon the water, and of Peter at¬
tempting to walk upon the same troubled element to meet his
Master. St. Matthew says, “ And when Peter was come down out
of the ship, he walked on the water to go to Jesus; but, when he
saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid, and, beginning to sink, he
cried, saying, Lord, save me ; and immediately Jesus stretched forth
His hand and caught him, and said unto him, 0 thou of little faith,
wherefore didst thou doubt? ”—chap. xv. 29,30,31. Clearly Peter’s
want of faith was not disbelief in his Lord, whom he saw perform¬
ing the wonderful work before him, or he certainly would not have
appealed to Him for the remedy, nor imperilled his life in the
attempt; but it is evident that though the power might have been
derivable from Jesus, yet its operation was subject to a condition on
the part of Peter, which Jesus taught was faith. The absence of
this condition was so apparent to Jesus that he did not attempt His
usual formulative utterance—“ Be it according to thy faith,” but
“ stretched forth His hand and caught him.” Nothing could more
clearly demonstrate that faith is the necessary condition that unites
the higher spiritual powers with the mind of man. Concerning this
condition of the mind Jesus also asserted, “If ye have faith as a
grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove
hence to yonder place, and it shall remove, and nothing shall be
impossible to you.”—Matthew vii. 20.
The author of the Epistle to the Hebrews says faith is the sub¬
stance of things hoped for, the evidence of the things not seen.
And Paul, perhaps the most learned of all the apostles, surely
would not have said that charity was greater than faith, if faith had
signified the orthodox idea of belief in Jesus as the Son of God as
the sole condition of salvation. In such a case he would have com¬
mitted, not alone a great blunder, but an act of awful blasphemy,
in setting up what might appear to be a mere earthly condition, as
superior or paramount to the spiritual elevation of Jesus, above all
things in the minds of his followers. Yet St. Paul did not scruple
to do this, for he says in his first. Epistle to the Corinthians xiii.
13, “ And now, abideth faith, hope, charity—these three: but the
greatest of these is charity.” Does not this imply that faith grows
out of charity ? Let me exhort you to study this aspect of spiritual
things, that you may perceive how much more they lie within the
illimitable domain of faith, than that of science or reason. That
the farther you are enabled to penetrate the realms of mind and
spirit, in like ratio you are removed from the grosser laws of matter
and material selfhood. In all ages and times, where Religion has
been preached, faith, if not held to be the primary principle, has yet
been looked upon as one of such paramount importance as to be
dogmatically insisted upon; and although in that lower stratum of
spiritual laws, where the manifestations of spiritual intelligence are
almost lost in the physical direction of its powers, yet the higher
channels of communion by which we seek to interview the higher
order of intelligences are invisible to the eye of science, and alone
open to the perception of faith.
I have not now the time to point out the instances wherein this
demand is made upon your faith. In a greater or less degree in
every form of spiritual manifestation this is the case. The time.is
rapidly approaching when Spiritualists must stand firm to their,
faith, or the finger of scorn will be pointed against them in such
overwhelming power, that the name 'Spiritualist will be a byword
and a shame, and the cause will expire like a mental epidemic, that,
having wasted its force, remains but in the memory to become a
subject of jest and ridicule.’ Therefore, I say, that as Spiritualism
is so closely allied to religion in the bondage of faith, and that as it
is at the same time free from the trammels or credenda of any
theological sect—bearing in mind that I speak of religion as a
system of ethics governed by spiritual principles—I urge it upon
you as the most fitting means for eliminating such revelation and
evidence of natural, law, life, and intelligence, as must be the foun¬
dation stone of the soul-needed edifice of religion and progress.
On the third point of .our subject, “ Spiritualism as the most
effective means or religious propagandism.”
Although I have laid much stress upon the necessity for the
CQndition or state of faith, there is yet room for Thomas Didymus,
if he comes even by night, to feel, as well as to see, in the true
spirit of honest inquiry. Spiritualism opens a large field of en¬
quiry to such as he, and it is for this reason, coupled with the
freedom for such inquiry that it affords, and the philosophy of its
principles, that it strongly recommends itself as a means of dis¬
seminating religious truths, at the same time that it expounds their
principles, and casts a more brilliant light upon the darkened paths
of human ignorance and perversion than can be derived from any
other source.
Just as space contains all the universe of worlds and every form
of being, so does Spiritualism comprehend all the needs of the
human soul. No religion can contain within its limits all the far-
reaching principles of Spiritualism, but Spiritualism is the ocean
which receives them all. It is the voice of God to His creatures;
it may reach man in varied forms or tones, but its gladdening har¬
mony sings in his soul, be he Jew or Gentile; yea, it even brightens
the cheerless prospect of the very infidel, who stands with his face
averted from the great Luminary of spiritual and material life, con¬
templating his own fleeting shadow, that must be dissipated in the
sunshine of essential love, the intelligence that is divine, and the
mercy that endureth for ever.
Dr. Hallock said that he had felt gratified at the tone and temper
of the papers, and was pleased that at last an institution existed
where the relation of the highest duties and laws which appertained
to man in connection with his spiritual nature, could be considered ;
it was pleasing to see that at that meeting Spiritualism was con¬
sidered to be more than a mere parlour entertainment or evenings
amusement, as it was too much regarded, he was sorry to say, in
his own country, America. He thought that a knowledge of the
laws of nature might be defined as “ the perfection of wisdom; ”
there could be no dispute about that; he also considered that the
painstaking observation of them was “the perfection of virtue.”
(Applause.) Such knowledge and observation would arouse the
highest gratitude towards, and a most profound veneration for the
cause which produced these things, and the feelings thus aroused
might be defined as those of true religion:
“ The undevout astronomer is mad,”
said one of the poets, and the saying was a true one, for if he be
not devout he must be a quack astronomer, knowing little of the
glories of the universe. But if such an astronomer were mad, what
could be said of the mental state of an irreligious Spiritualist, for
the Spiritualist held in his hands that highest science whence all
things originated. (Applause.)
Mr. Glendinning said that materialism was spreading, and what
Spiritualists had to bring against it was not so much the physical
phenomena as the religious influence of Spiritualism and its phi¬
losophy. Those spiritual associations had made most progress,
which had held before the public the religious influence of Spirit¬
ualism much more than had been done as yet in London, and Dr.
Clark, who knew what work had been performed in Scotland, could
verify what he had just said. Those Spiritualists who had gane
hand-in-hand with the churches, not putting down the opinions of
the orthodox in a rough way, for those orthodox people were
sincere believers in their own views—(Applause)—had exercised a
powerful influence. Many persons were indifferent to Spiritualism
until sickness and death came into the family; then for the first
time they became able to receive truth upon the subject, and to
accept statements which they had previously rejected. If the
religious influence of Spiritualism were brought more under the
notice of the public, the whole movement would exercise a larger
influence upon society.
Mr. Herbert Noyes said that he thought that Spiritualism was
destined to do away with the foundationless faith of the Church; he
did not think it was right to be diplomatic in dealing with
the subject, or to use words which concealed their real meaning; it
was best to speak out, for sooner or later Spiritualism would have to
fight with tremendous ecclesiastical prejudices. The word “ reli¬
gion ” was rarely used by the public in the same sense as that laid
down by Mrs. Parkes, and it would be better to substitute the term
“ theology; ” it was with theology, with dogma, and not with reli¬
gion, that Spiritualism was at variance. He did not think that the
question of re-incarnation should be tabooed amongst Spiritualists.
The question merely was, “Is it true or is it not?” and the
point had to be discussed freely and without prejudice. He believed
that there was no difference at all between the old Hebrew prophet.^
and modern mediums, except that the utterances of the latter could
be more critically examined, because they came forth in a more
intellectual age. (Mr. Noyes then began to talk about mistranslations
of the Scriptures, when he was called to order.)
Dr. Sexton asked what was meant by the word “Spiritualism,”
and wherein was it so high and exalted a guide as had been repre¬
sented. The Christian church had been in all ages the stronghold
of the belief in the reality of a spirit world, and if it had not been
for that Church, Spiritualism would not stand upon the same strong
footing it does at this day. He had been told that Spiritualism
was about to do all kinds of impossibilities; it was to overturn
everything, and to establish a new order of things upon earth : but
really, as a ipatter of fact, it was only the power of communicating
with the spirit world; beyond that, it gave very little knowledge at
present. The teachings of spirits were as varied as those of men
m the flesh, from the doctrine of reincarnation, which he believed
to be a most monstrous fallacy, to those which the large majority
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 3, 1875,
268
of Spiritualists accepted. Many spirits taught as true all the
commonly received ethics of Christianity; others, again, taught the
belief of Dr. Clark, and of some persons in America, that there was
no God; this he asserted to he a gigantic delusion; but Spiritualists
were all agreed that Spiritualism gave practical proofs of the
reality of a spirit world—a busy world full of differences of
opinion, full of truth and of untruth. Consequently all the
teachings ought to be brought to the test of the reason of the indi¬
vidual who received them, before anything could be accepted as true
or otherwise.
Dr. Clark said that seven or eight years ago he had been opposing
the views of Dr. Sexton, and on the present occasion he rose to
emphatically deny that he was an atheist in the sense that Dr.
Sexton had just alleged. The only point he contended for was, that
he saw no facts in nature which proved the existence of God. Men
had a desire to believe in a God, and so had he himself.
Dr. Sexton remarked that the words of Dr. Clark confirmed what
he (Dr. Sexton) had said.
Mr. Chant stated that no man was responsible for his own belief,
because a man could not believe or disbelieve in a God or anything
else at will.
Dr. Hallock said that the facts might be put in a fairer light than
had been, done by Dr. Sexton, for popular theology was utterly
repudiated by Spiritualists, none of whom believed in eternal
punishment, and few in the doctrine of vicarious atonement, which
taught the demoralising doctrine that a man might go on sinning all
his life, and when death prevented him from sinning any longer, he
might ride into glory on the back of the Lord Jesus.
Dr. Sexton remarked that thousands of Spiritualists taught the
doctrine of vicarious atonement; he had friends who had become
Boman Catholics in consequence of the spirit messages which they
had received; those friends believed that the spirits who taught the
doctrine'were true and reliable in their utterances.
Mr. Humphreys said that the speakers were gradually drifting
into a theological discussion instead of keeping to the subject of the
papers. (Hear, hear.) He believed that Spiritualism would injure
itself if it attacked any existing faith whatever. Spiritualists had
facts to deal with, 3,nd should content themselves^with recapitulating
the same to the public without drawing hasty conclusions.
Mr. J. Lament remarked that the speakers were wandering from
the subject mooted in the admirable papers which had been read,
and which had been written in a good spirit; and he hoped that
they might be placed at the disposal of the public. In dealing with
subjects such as had just been advanced, there was a risk of the
debate, degenerating into dogmatism. Instead of attacking the
religious opinions of their neighbours, Spiritualists should content
themselves with giving practical effect to their various religious
beliefs in their lives, and should be dogmatic about nothing but
their facts, which could be proved to anybody who chose to inquire.
(Applause.) Let them content themselves by becoming perfect
men and women; by striving to attain the angelic state before
getting rid of the material body; let them by their lives and charac¬
ters attract people towards themselves and towards that Association.
(Applause.)
Mr. Martin R. Smith said that a tendency had arisen in the debate
to diverge from the moral aspect of the question, to the dogmatic,
and he supposed that this was almost inevitable when the word
“ religion ” had been inserted in the titles of the papers; he now
wished that the word “ moral ” had been substituted. He should be
very sorry to see that Association taking steps to disseminate
Spiritualism in any sense as a religion. It was true that the teach¬
ings of Spiritualism, taken as a whole, were difficult to reconcile
with the teachings of the orthodox churches, but he should be sorry
to try to force his friends to think as he did. He thought it would
be wrong to try to knock away the crutches on which they were
getting along very well; in God’s own good time they would
become free, and cast them away without any pressure from those
who thought differently.
Mr. E. T. Bennett said that it was true that spirits taught various
doctrines; still he believed that the most orthodox Spiritualists
unconsciously held mental reservations when they said they believed
in orthodox items of creed, so that in reality there was no difference
of opinion between them and their brother Spiritualists. (Laughter.)
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS, ITS
OBJECTS AND INTERESTS.
Mr. Martin B. Smith then read the following paper:—
Taking, as I do, a most earnest interest in the progress and wel¬
fare of this Association, I am grateful for the opportunity which
has been afforded tome to express my views as to how this progress
may be best fostered, and this welfare attained.
I do not wish to detain you long, and I will not therefore enter
into any history of the circumstances which led to the foundation of
our Association; suffice it to say that it sprang into existence to
supply a want which has begun to make itself severely felt. We
had arrived at a period in the history of Spiritualism when some
recognised leadership was clearly necessary. In theory it was un¬
desirable, practically it was impossible, for any single individual to
undertake such a responsibility. The formation of a great central
Association was proposed, and the suggestion received with very
general approbation; the result has been the foundation of the
present Association—in numbers and in influence by far the largest
and most powerful in Great Britain. It comprises nearly all the
leading Spiritualists in the kingdom, and having its domicile in
London is, I consider, justly entitled to the name it bears—“ The
British National Association of Spiritualists.” The assumption of
such a sonorous title involves, I am fully aware, grave responsibi¬
lities—hot only local, but national; not only towards our own mem¬
bers, but towards every Spiritualist in the kingdom. That we should
be able to fulfil those onerous duties, at the outset, to the satisfac¬
tion of all, is manifestly impossible, and a rigid scrutiny of our past
acts might at first sight bring upon us the accusation of having
thought somewhat too much of local to the prejudice of national
interests.
It is perfectly true that a large expenditure has been incurred in
the rent of offices and the engagement of a competent secretary;
but I would ask those who are inclined to cavil, how we could pos¬
sibly have done otherwise; how we could have hoped to concentrate
around us the Spiritualists even of London without an office; and
how we could have undertaken the correspondence of the Associa¬
tion alone (without taking into consideration other and equally
important duties) without the assistance of a permanent secretary.
I should also mention, what, doubtless, many of you know, that a
large portion of the money required for these “preliminary ex¬
penses ” has been provided by friends of the Association for these
special purposes.
I have acknowledged that our duties are national; but to carry
out such duties efficiently m ould entail upon us an expenditure far
in excess of our present means. If this Association is to be a per¬
manent one, its first duty must be towards itself. It must curb its
enthusiasm, and submit to see its operations rigidly curtailed within
the limits of its income. (Applause.) We have no funds at
present to enable us to carry out any extensive scheme of national
utility.
How many small societies might be established throughout the
kingdom had we the means of supplying them with books, and
assisting them with the rent of a reading-room ?
What good might be done by the engagement of lecturers, with
courage and ability to set the facts of Spiritualism before the
public ? but the items of travelling expenses, engagement of rooms,
and lecturers’ fees are far more than at present we dare to under¬
take.
Numerous societies languish from the lack of properly qualified
mediums. I would we had the means of supplying such want.
It is needless to speculate upon what we might do had we a large
income to deal with. It will be more profitable to set before you
very humbly what we have done. Well! We have introduced
order and association in the place of disorganisation and individual
effort.
We have laid down well-considered rules and bye-laws which
have already served as the basis for the regulations of some local
societies.
We have provided for the visitor to London a well selected
library and an excellent reading-room.
We have entered into correspondence and friendly relations with
most of the leading Spiritualists in America and on the Continent.
We have commenced a series of free secmces for inquirers into
Spiritualism.
We have offered annually a gold medal, or a first prize of £20,
and a second prize of .£10, for essays upon an interesting subject
connected with Spiritualism, and finally we have put an end to
what I believe to have been a somewhat mischievous monopoly.
So much we have done; it is not much, I confess, but it is some¬
thing.
I should wish now to say a few words as to the future operations
of the Association, and I hope that what I say may evoke sugges¬
tions from those present. We have not done so much as I could
wish in the way of seeking out, testing, and developing new
mediums. The fault is scarcely ours, if fault there be—I would
rather call it our misfortune—for new mediums there are very
few. Nevertheless, I think this is an object that should be ever
kept prominently in view, perhaps more so than it has hitherto
been, for we have here every opportunity, every appliance that we
can require; all that is wanting are the mediums themselves.
I should wish tp encourage persons possessed of this mysterious
power to come up to London, to afford them-a shelter on their
arrival, to assist them in their development, to surround them with
good associations, and to protect them as far as possible from ex- '
posure to the vicious dangers of London. How much we may do
in this direction with the means at our disposal is a matter for
grave consideration, but the subject is of vital importance, and, as
I have said, should be kept prominently in view.
I should be much pleased if next year we were able to establish,
even upon a small scale, a circulating library. Books thus lent out
fall into the hands of persons who might in no other way have
hearij of the marvels of Spiritualism, and I believe such a step, if it
is found feasible, would be of great service to the cause. Our
present library, however, is inadequate for the purpose f it must be
largely increased, if it is to be thus used. The Association, I can
hardly think, will be able to meet such a demand upon its funds,
and the project, if carried out, must be fostered by private liberality,
I should wish to see our “Free Seances ior Inquirers ”—at present
but an experiment—essayed upon a larger scale. Here, again, we
are met with the question of expense, and with the difficulty of
procuring mediums sufficiently developed to resist the counteracting
influence of strangers and sceptics. The experiment, so far as it
Dec. 3, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
269
has been tried, promises satisfactory results, and I hope that it may
be found possible to extend it. I have mentioned these few matters,
not in any sense as a programme of our future operations, but
simply as a few among the many deserving our attention.
The agenda of such an Association as this can never be'a com¬
plete one, for in a new science such as Spiritualism, not a day can
pass without some new interest, some new duty, cropping up and
demanding immediate attention.
The success which has attended our Association is, up to the
present moment, far beyond my most sanguine hopes, and I attribute
it mainly to the harmony that has existed amongst us. (Applause.)
We have been, what we profess to be, “ an Association,” with no private
interests to promote, no individual schemes to serve. (Applause.) Our
strength is therefore our just due, and our progress is certain, so long
as we adhere to the principles and regulations under which the
Association was inaugurated. A very slight acquaintance with our
rules will prove that under no circumstances can the affairs of the
Association fall into the hands of any clique or section of our
members. By a very simple arrangement (the details of which it
is needless to enter into) it is provided that every year there shall
be always an accession of new members to the Council, to the exclu¬
sion of an equal proportion of the old. Although there is much to be
said in favour of the maintenance in office of tried and experienced
managers, still I am of opinion that there is a large balance of
advantage in favour of our present regulation, and I trust it will be
rigidly adhered to.
Whilst speaking of the success that has attended our Association,
we must not attribute too much to the excellence of our principles
and organisation. We owe much—more than I can express—to
individual energy and exertion. Our Association has not developed
to its present proportions by the aid of natural laws; it is the result
of sheer hard work. I could mention the names of many who have
ungrudgingly given to the Association hour after hour, which would
otherwise have been spent in well-earned recreation; who have
brought their talents, their special abilities to our aid without fee or
reward, beyond the satisfaction of well-doing. Individual sacrifices
have been neither few nor small. I do not regret them, nor will
those by whom they have been rendered; nor do I fear that they
will cease, for they spring from the impulses of generous minds,
and enrich the giver as well as the recipient. (Applause.) We
sorely need these sacrifices of time and abilities. Verily, we live
by them, and thrive and prosper upon them.
I must now say a few' words upon our financial position, which
is not quite what I should wish to see it. It gives me no uneasi¬
ness, for, in the first place, our expenditure is most carefully con¬
trolled, and our wants, therefore, cannot be excessive; and, secondly,
we do not lack members who, if the occasion should arise, will not
hesitate to come forward with the necessary assistance. Although
this is so, hardly any of us could wish to press unduly upon
individual members, thereby diverting funds which might otherwise
be available for equally important purposes connected with Spirit¬
ualism. Our income is somewhat inadequate, mainly, I believe,
through a misunderstanding of a large proportion of our members.
They were rightly told that an annual minimum subscription of 5s.,
with election, constituted membership, and upon joining the Asso¬
ciation paid, without consideration, the sum of 5s. I know some
who appear as subscribers of this modest sum, to whom it would be
a matter of indifference whether they paid 5s. per annum or £1, or
even £5. I cannot but hope that many members when they realise
how much the Association is crippled in its action by want of funds,
will feel it their duty to lend us a more liberal support. Subscrip¬
tions to the Association do not go to swell the profits of an indi¬
vidual, or to increase the emoluments of our secretary ;■ they can be
used but for one only purpose, viz., to spread and to foster the know¬
ledge of Spiritualism.
If this is the case, and if our Association is faithfully doing its
duty, it does seem absurd to me that our members, whether rich or
poor, should testify their approval of our mission and their sym¬
pathy with our objects, by a uniform subscription of 5s. I
appeal to our wealthier members to increase our power of useful¬
ness by their liberality, and I promise them that no effort shall be
spared to use the means confided to us, for the best interests of
Spiritualism. (Applause.)
Finally, I would call upon all Spiritualists, of every class and
every shade of opinion, to join our Association. Why should they
hold aloof from us ? Figuratively speaking, every man’s hand is'
against Spiritualism, where then shall we find strength and power
of resistance save in united action ? How is it, then, that some of
our brethren look upon our Association with disapprobation ? I
can only conceive that it arises from a misapprehension of our
motives and constitution. Let all such come and see for themselves,
read our Articles of Association, listen to our explanations, and I
think they will be forced to concede that our intentions, at any rate,
are irreproachable, however imperfectly we may carry them out.
We are not open to suspicion of interested motives, for we have no
mptives to serve. We are not fettered to any especial policy, for
the seats in our Council are open to all in turn, and we have, and
indeed can have, no object to attain but the promotion of Spirit¬
ualism. .
I must not forget ere I sit down to say a word in earnest com¬
mendation of our secretary, for to her industry and talents we owe
much. Her duties are onerous and important, and on the successful
performance of them mush our prosperity greatly depend. I con¬
gratulate the Association on having secured as secretary one so
eminently qualified for the position. (Applause.)
NEXT year’s CONFERENCE.
Mr. John Lament said that he would suggest that steps be taken
by the Council to hold the annual meeting occasionally in a pro¬
vincial town. He fully agreed that before any attempt was made
. to do this it was necessary that the Association should have con¬
solidated itself as it had done, and established a home in London.
Those who knew how hard the Council had worked during the
past year must be very pleased to see the success which had
crowned their efforts, and to find such an elegant and comfortable
establishment provided for those who interested themselves in the
success of the movement. (Applause.) One thing the National
Association still wanted in London, and that was a hall of its own
for public meetings. (Hear, hear.) He thought that the Associa¬
tion had already done more than was expected by the most san¬
guine of its friends, and that it should now begin to turn its
attention to the provinces. It should hold its next meeting in one
of the northern towns, say Newcastle.
Mr. Morse said that suggestions should be sent in as to where
the next Conference should be held, and then the Council could act
upon one of them. He liked what had been said about the members
raising their subscriptions, and by way of example he would double
his own.; although the amount was not a large one, he was doing
the best he could. When he returned to England he was astonished
at the appearance of the rooms of the Association, and was per¬
fectly delighted to see such excellent and elegant accommodation in
the metropolis for London and provincial Spiritualists,
Mr. Harrison said that it was a matter of experience with the
British Association for the Advancement of Science, and other
public bodies which held frequent meetings in the provinces, that
it would not do to go to country towns unless the supporters of the
movement in those towns first sent an invitation, and took some of
the responsibility of getting up the local meetings. If the Asso¬
ciation went to a town where it had not been warmly invited, it
might find itself in a disagreeable position. Mr. Bray had written
to him, saying that there was some talk among Brighton Spirit¬
ualists of inviting the Association to hold its 1876 Conference in
that town.
Miss Kislingbury remarked, that in proportion to the warmth of
the invitation from any place would the Council probably be inclined
to accede thereto.
Dr. Sexton thought that Brighton would not do; it was not cen¬
tral enough.
FUTURE WORK OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION IN THE PROVINCES.
Mr. Harper said that Brighton was too far south, and that the
next' Conference should be held in the great North. Provincial
Spiritualists thought at present that the Association was not of
much value to them. Their present conception was that it was a
machine constituted to meet the desires and convenience of London
Spiritualists, especially those of the higher social caste. He would
suggest that some closer union should be brought about between
the National Association and provincial local societies, which would
like to be united with it if it would assist them to carry on their
business better. The possibility of forming a confederation of
Spiritual societies had already been discussed in Birmingham and
Manchester, with the object of promoting the circulation of mediums
and lecturers; some of the local societies in the country were too
poor even to pay the travelling expenses of those speakers who
gave their services gratuitously. If the Association would take
this matter up, if it would formulate a plan for making an exchange
of lecturers between societies, and to meet their travelling expenses,
closer union might be effected. There was nothing to complain of
in regard to the success of the National Association in London ;
indeed, in the metropolis it had done a great deal. He thought that
there should be a free circle once a week in the rooms of the
Association, and more evening seances. Trustworthy mediums
could be found for the purpose, who would give their services
without pay.
Mr. E. Parkinson Ashton thought that mediums varied much in
reliability. ‘ The Association should urge upon the public the desir¬
ability of developing mediumship in private families.
Miss Kislingbury said that she had no doubt the Council would
be glad to hear suggestions from all parts of the country as to the
best plan of pushing Spiritualism in the provinces.
Mr. Dawson Bogers remarked that the Council had never lost sight
for one moment of the necessity of carrying on work in the pro¬
vinces; in fact, all its members were intensely interested in that
point. Friends in the country should remember that the members
of the Council had been working very bard indeed to get the As¬
sociation up to its present position; indeed, at the present time
members oi the Council were on the premises nearly every day,
giving time and work in looking after the interests of the Associa¬
tion. (Applause.) At the same time the question of pushing
Spiritualism in the provinces was deep in the hearts of the members
of the Council, but before doing anything in the matter it was
necessary not only to establish the Association in London, but to
establish it solidly. (Applause.) He moved much in society, and
knew how very much the Association had done to change the tone
of the general public in relation to Spiritualism. Twelve months
ago every newspaper notice of Spiritualism was full of scorn and
270
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 3, 1875.
ridicule, but the influence of the strong Association they had
founded was so great, that Spiritualists began to be treated more as
if they were sane, and had not sold their souls to the devil.
(Laughter.) Provincial Spiritualists did not know this, although
they received some of the advantages conferred by the change in
public opinion.
Mr. Glendinning observed that London was the best place in
which to hold the Annual Conference for the present, but that was
no reason why deputations should not be sent by the Council to
hold meetings in provincial towns.
Mr. Noyes agreed with the last speaker. He thought it would be
a mistake not to have a Conference every year in London, because
of the great publicity which could thereby be obtained for its pro¬
ceedings ; but that was no reason why other Conferences should
not be held in the country. He was not so sure that Mr..Rogers
was right when he said that Spiritualists were regarded as sane,
for he (Mr. Noyes) had been locked up in a lunatic asylum for
five months. If they wanted to find mediums and clairvoyants let
them search for them in lunatic asylums. (Much laughter.) What
he meant was, not that mediums were lunatics, but that if they,
went a little wrong while their mediumship was1 developing, they
were locked up, and placed in the hands of doctors, who, as a rule,
were hard materialists, and knew nothing about psychological
phenomena, so made the sufferer worse instead of better.
The Chairman said that he was afraid that he must call Mr.
Noyes to order.
Dr. Clark said that people in the North had no faith in the
National Association; their feeling was that it was a metropolitan
society, and what they wanted was an easy and cheap system of
sending about lecturers and mediums. There were two evils in
connection with Spiritualism in London—one being Mr. Burns and
his business, and the other the National Association of Spiritualists.
In fact, the doings of the latter were such that he (Dr. Clark) could
not join it yet 
Mr. Dawson Rogers (interrupting)—Hear, hear. (Laughter.)
Dr. Clark continued that anybody ought to be allowed to join the
Association, and not those only who were willing to pay five shill¬
ings a year, or upwards.
The Chairman remarked that he was entirely in favour of the
holding of occasional Conferences in the country. The going to
Brighton was not a happy suggestion; some town in the North
would be better. Mr. Harper had said that the Association had not
united itself with Spiritualists in the provinces, but would he say
how the union was to be effected ? So far the Association had
made every endeavour to work in harmony with everybody; it had
invited provincial Spiritualists and all their societies to work in
friendly union'with it, but the only suggestion that had been gene¬
rally made by the societies in return was that the National Asso¬
ciation should spend money over them.
Mr. Harper said that provincial Spiritualists had higher ideas of
their duties than merely to wish to get money out of their brethren;
he thought that united action between London and provincial
Spiritualists would soon begin if the National Association would
propound to the local societies some system of confederation and
of free circulation of mediums and lecturers.
The Chairman said he hoped that Mr. Harper would bring
his scheme before the Council, which at present had not the finances
to do much in the country; moreover, he maintained that it was
the first duty of the Council to make the Association strong at
home ; for until it did so it could not pretend to be able to carry
out any great scheme of permanent utility. (Hear, hear.) He
would willingly go to any provincial society to talk over these
matters, and so no doubt would five or six other members of the
Council.
The proceedings were then adjourned until the evening.
A continuation of the report of the proceedings will be published
in next week’s Spiritualist.
Sunday Services at the Cleveland Hall.—On Sunday
evening last Mr. J. J. Morse delivered, in the trance state, the last
of a course of four lectures at the Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-
street, W., under the auspices of the British National Association
of Spiritualists. About 150 persons, most of whom were ladies and
gentlemen well known in the Spiritual movement, were present. *
Mr. Algernon Joy, who occupied the chair, read the 1st chapter of
Romans, and in introducing1 the speaker, Mr. Morse, said that he
would deliver a discourse under inspiration, which he (Mr. Joy), and
Spiritualists generally, believed to be brought about by the influence
of spirits. A hymn was then sung, and Mr. Morse passed under
the control of his spirit guides, and offered up a prayer. The subject,
as previously announced, was “ The Divine Trinities, their Nature
and Relations.” Another hymn was sung, after which Mr. Morse,
in his normal condition, said that the audience was aware that
that meeting concluded the services in that hall. He considered the
action of the British National Association of Spiritualists, in
organising the late series of meetings, a wise course, for certainly
no little good had been accomplished; and, for his own part, he
felt pleased that the meetings had taken place, as they had given
him an opportunity of meeting old friends, making new ones, and
doing a little foe the cause he had at heart. The listeners then
dispersed*
SPIRITUALISM AND WOMEN’S RIGHTS.
American Spiritual periodicals have for some years past con¬
tained more or less about the steps which have been taken in that
country to promote the greater legal and social freedom of women,
and in England it is noticeable that persons who take an interest
in the one subject, frequently take an interest also in the other.
Baron Holmfeld informs us that several European nations, more
especially Russia, are in advance of England in alloting to women
those civil rights which justice demands. In Russia, he says, hus¬
bands have no right whatever to interfere with the property of
their wives, and married women can make legal contracts. Our
opinion is that every living being ought to have the utmost free¬
dom; that liberty should be curtailed only when the individual
uses it to the injury of his or-her neighbours; that every living
soul should refuse to be governed, but at the same time have not
the slightest desire to govern or infringe upon the liberty of any¬
body else.
Last Saturday afternoon Mr. and Mrs. William Tebb, the well-
known Spiritualists, convened a meeting of Spiritualists and advo¬
cates of women’s rights, at their residence, 7, Albert-terrace,
Gloucester-gate, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Mr. Tebb, who presided, said that they had met that evening to
consider a few questions relating to women’s rights. Mr. John
Stuart Mill had brought the whole problem before Parliament in the
year 1867, and he believed that the .arguments used by Mr. Mill on
that occasion had not yet been answered; in point of fact they
were unanswerable. There was a measure now before the House
to extend the franchise to spinsters and widows, of whom two and a
half millions paid rates and taxes, yet were given no power to vote.
It was too late in the day to say that women were not qualified for
the franchise; they already voted at municipal elections; they
served personally on school boards with success, and to the satis¬
faction of everybody; they were also to be found on the boards of
management of many useful institutions. If they had more power in
the State many evils which now exist in society could be miti¬
gated, for there were not a few questions which could not be
decided fairly and impartially by men alone; there were ques¬
tions relating to property and the care of children; indeed,
until very recently the law was such that a child in arms might
be torn away from its mother’s breast. He did not think, as
some enthusiastic workers in the movement did, that they would
gain this extension of the franchise in one or two years; he thought
rather that several years would have to elapse, because all advances
in relation to human rights had been slow in past ages, and it was
the same still. Slavery died a lingering death; for it was only
forty-one years ago that Englishmen owned a million slaves. Pro¬
fessor Tyndall had said that every new discovery, like a meteor,
brought with it a line of light, casting rays towards other dis¬
coveries, and he (Mr. Tebb) thought that every act of justice done,
paved the way for the speedier performance of other acts of justice.
(Applause.)
Dr. Hallock remarked that in New York the right of vote by
ballot was a great power, and it had been used both for and against
progress. It had given prosperity, happiness, and power. to thou¬
sands of Irishmen and Germans, as well as to natives of America;
the result of this was that New York had been for some years
governed by Irishmen, and those not of the highest morality and
intelligence. Thus, in the carrying out of a great principle, the
nation suffered locally in a particular instance. It seemed to him
self-evident that one half of mankind should have the same rights
as the other half, for if this were denied, it followed that one half
of mankind was more or less under greater authority, and that
per se was unnatural and unjust. He thought that the honourable
and noble lady at the head of the English nation at least ought to
have the right to express in Parliament her opinion upon women’s
rights and other matters. The justice of the cause they had met to
advocate included the promise that it would be successful, for
nothing but a lie could die, and truth was sure to live.
Miss Shaw said that the workers in the movement were not
agitating in a spirit of hostility to any class; they only asked to be
allowed to co-operate in an important national work. They did
not wish to irritate those who thought differently, but to convince
them. It was a law that every new movement should be vehe¬
mently opposed by minds of all kinds; but she believed with Mr.
Jacob Bright that people never felt the strength of their cause so
strongly as they did when they heard what was said against it. It
was said that a woman should keep to her own sphere, that is to
say, to her own house; but there man had absolute authority; as a
wife and mother she was also under authority. Many yromen had to
work hard in the world, yet found themselves unjustly hampered
by their civil position. She thought female suffrage would bring in
a better educated body of voters from among the trading classes.
What a very common thing it was to find a bill neatly written and
made out by a woman, yet signed with a clumsy blot by, a man.
(Laughter.)
Mr. John Cunnington said he believed that the work of tho
society in that parish was only to secure the elective franchise to
wuuftmed ladies; he believed also tiut the whelo question oi
Dec. 3, 1875.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
271
.■women’s rights was not before the meeting; they were merely
there to express their approval of Mr. JForsyth’s bill, the justice
and propriety of which were obvious.
Miss Downing said that the law, like the Almighty, should be no
respecter of persons, therefore it should treat Women in the same
way that it treated men. It was said that the present Government
were rather in favour of Mr. Forsyth’s bill, under the impression
that women were conservative. As to the fact, she thought they
were in error, but from whatever motives they might help on the
work, she should be very grateful to them for so doing. Those
who were interested in the success of this movement were not.
so much those who were simply there that day, who would retire
quietly to their comfortable homes—it was not their class, she re¬
peated, which so much needed the reform, but the millions who had
to work—the millions who could not be placed upon pinnacles,
who could not be made into idols. In the hard-working world,
wherever the women had to compete with men, the selfish element
came in, and those women who' had to work felt the hardship of
their position in the eye of the law, for work some of them must;
they could not all be made into goddesses and angels. (Laughter.)
If women received justice at the hands of the law, men would not
be injured.
Mr. Elioart said that there were many who did not look upon
this matter as a question of right; in fact it was not admitted that
the exercise of the franchise was a right even among men. In
giving voting power the question was, “ What is best for the State,
or, in other words, the community ? ” and the arguments of the
speakers, he thought, should be more upon the ground that the
giving of votes to women would be of benefit to the State. He was
not only against the suffrage for women, but manhood suffrage also,
although he was a Liberal. There were plenty of idle, drunken
fellows now who possessed votes, and would be much better without
them.
Mr. Algernon Joy, hon. secretary of the British National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, said that Miss Downing had said that that
meeting had been called to bring not the righteous, but sinners to
repentance. He did not rise to speak so much against the cause
they had at heart as against some of the arguments, for one bad
argument would do more harm to a cause than five good ones. It
had been implied by the speakers that women and men were prac¬
tically the same, and he thought that that was a mistake. If two
things were different they could not be called either equal or
unequal—take for instance a carrot and a turnip. (Laughter.) He
thought that there was a want of logic in women ; he thought it
unquestionable that nine out of ten of them were inferior to men in
logic, and were swayed more by their feelings. Further, it was a
fact that those who were governed more by their feelings than by
reason, made most mistakes in life, and frequently gave decisions
which were not in accordance with justice.
Mrs. Hallock said that the gentlemen who had spoken were so
lukewarm that they were worse than enemies. One gentleman had
brought up the question of expediency, but she did not see, sup¬
posing that she had a vote, why she should pledge herself to do
her best for the Slate ; the State could not get along without
women, and women could not get along without the State, so one
had no more right to demand pledges than the other. She was not
going to promise to be good—women had been good long enough.
(Laughter.) Bad men had votes, and now it was high time that
bad women should have their turn.
Mr. Tebb then announced that a petition in favour of Mr.
Forsyth’s bill was lying for signature at the door, and the proceed¬
ings closed with the usual votes of thanks.
Dr. Monck has written to us that Mr. Rogers had been wrongly
informed when he told the Ccfuncil of the National Association that
he (Dr. Monck) had always absented himself from all its public and
other meetings, for he attended the soiree in the Co-operative Hall,
and was present at the formation of the Association in Liverpool.
Spiritual Literature in Australia.—Mr. Tyerman and
others have!written to us about the limited supply of The Spiritualist
newspaper in Australia. A long time ago we wrote to Mr. Terry
of Melbourne, the local agent for the supply of Spiritual literature,
telling him that the sending out from England of special parcels for
the provinces and foreign countries was then in the hands of a
monopolist, who was in the habit of taking no notice of orders sent
to him from the provinces for The Spiritualist, and had flatly
refused to enclose it with other literature to the Liverpool Psycho¬
logical Society, so he had better order parcels by post direct. Mr.
Terry replied that this was not. necessary, for he received all he
ordered; but by a later mail he wrote in haste to have them sent
from The Spiritualist ofB.ce direct by post, for his usual supply had
been shddenly cut off altogether. At the present time the supply
appears to be insufficient, though we have heard no home complaints
of late of impediments placed in the way of supply by the dealer in
question. Still, Australian and New Zealand Spiritualists should
protect themselves against restrictions, and if they cannot get The
Spiritualist through channels connected with the movement, order
it through other dealers as they do our daily papers, otherwise they
will be cut off from the opinions and writings of educated English
Spiritualists.
SPIRITUALISM IN DALSTON.
EIFTH ANNIVERSARY MEETING OF THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION.
Last Tuesday night the fifth anniversary meeting of theDalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism was held at its rooms, 74,
Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E. There was a crowded attend¬
ance, and among the numerous friends present were Mr. Thomas
Shorter; Miss Shorter; Mr. J. J. Morse; Mr. G. R. Tapp; Dr.,
Mrs., and Miss Sexton; Mr. Sexton, jun.; Mrs. Corner; the Misses
Caroline, Nina, and Eveline Corner; Mr. and Mrs. Bassett; Mr. R.
Pomeroy Tredwen; Mr. H. Cook; Mr. Thomas Wilks; Mr., Mrs.
and Miss Blyton; Mrs. Wood; Mr. R. Pearce; Mr. Lovell; and
Mr. W. H. Harrison. Dr. Sexton presided.
Madame Curry then gave a pleasing pianoforte solo, after which
Mr. Tredwen gave a recitation from one of Charles Lambe’s essays.
Mr. Thomas Shorter, late editor of the Spiritual Magazine, spoke
of the good which associative action did for Spiritualism. Spiritualism
he thought was spreading fast enough, so that its advocates would
do well to give more time to gain a thorough understanding of its
facts, philosophy, and past history. He was glad to see that the
Dalston Association had a good permanent library, and he thought
that Spiritualists everywhere, would do good if they presented it
with all the books they could.
THE MANNERS AND CUSTOMS OF THE AMERICANS.
Mr. J. J. Morse rose, and said:—
Mr. President,fellow members, and friends of this Association:
It appears to me. somewhat out of place that upon such an occasion
as this I should be guilty of inflicting a lecture upon you. I must
place the responsibility of so doing upon the shoulders of our
worthy secretary, Mr. Blyton; but I will endeavour to ward the
blame from his shoulders, as well as to escape censure for myself,
and, at the same time, I am sure I am consulting your feelings by
being discreetly brief. I found my experiences in America to range
themselves under three heads, viz., American people, American
customs and American Spiritualism, each one of which sub¬
divisions would be of itself amply sufficient to occupy your undi¬
vided attention upon one entire evening. The people are marked
by a full expression of nervous restless energy, every one seeming
at all times to experience pressing need of being at some other
place, and intensely intent upon getting there as quickly as possible.
One might almost say that the people of America are a race of
speculators, or perhaps a kindlier term would be “ experimentahsts,”
and yet, undoubtedly great as is their commercial enterprise, the
commerce of the United States is not in a flourishing condition.
The American people have no State Church, or national religion,
to suffer under or esteem a blessing, whichever way my hearers
choose, but such religion as they have is too often characterised by
sonorousness and display, a fifteen-hundred-dollar parson, and a
five-thousand-dollar chair, being oftener than not the facts pre¬
sented. According to the theory of American institutions, the
people are all equal. This is true at the polling booths, the ceme¬
tery, and the police-court; but practically the level of democracy is
about as much a fact in England as in America. But this leads
me to a consideration more intimately connected with the customs
of the people whose dispositions I have faintly placed before you.
In all the large cities and towns, caste is as plainly manifest, and as
rigidly defined, as with us. It is curious to notice the almost per¬
fect personal similarity between the upper grades of society in both
countries, alike in the face, manner, and dress of the men and women
as it is here in social life, where the level of democracy proves itself
to be theoretical. The consideration of position is as much re¬
spected, place and its power are eagerly sought after, and handles to
names, as “Professor,” “Judge,” “ Honourable,” and “Excellency.”
Among many of the customs which might be enumerated, and
which are more or less singular and amusing, it may be men¬
tioned that weddings often take place in the evening and nearly
always at home ; also various periodical anniversaries, which are
duly celebrated under the style and titles of wooden, tin, silver, and
golden weddings, the last occurring on the fiftieth anniversary. It
is customary for the friends of the parties to present them with
articles of use and value, of materials designated by the titles of
the different anniversaries. The funerals are costly in the ex¬
treme. The body is clothed in a full suit of clothes, often new,
and laid upon its side in a casket, coffins not being used in
America. The said caskets are considerably expensive. Large
sums are spent for flowers, carriages, and music, while the lot
and tomb form no inconsiderable item in the affair, and in many
families a funeral is not only to be deplored for the fact itself,
but for the impoverishment it too often causes to follow.
Divorces are in many States easily obtained; among other
reasons, “for incompatibility of temper, or such other causes as
the Court deems sufficient.” This is enough in all conscience for
the afflicted marital victims. American social life presents three
different aspects—first, housekeeping; second, board; and
thirdly, hotel living. In the first, the manner is as with us; in the
second, you hire a room, or set of rooms, furnished or unfurnished,
in a house which is devoted to what in English parlance is known
as letting lodgings, and you take your meals at any table in the
house, or at a restaurant hard by, or at a boarding-table in another
house, generally next door. This method of living will average in
cost from seven dollars to fifteen a week, the servants of the houses
doing ali the chamber work. There is a parlour for general use.
272
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. S, 1875.
In the last case, you select your hotel according to your means, and
can board either on the American or European plan: if the first,
you take your meals at the general table at so much per day.; if the
second, paying so much per meal. The two last are the popular
and general methods of living, and, though they suit the American
disposition, an Englishman misses the quietness of the family circle,
with its sacred and softening influences.
In private life a very small quantity of intoxicating liquors is
used, though in the cities lager bier saloons, whiskey bars, and rum
holes abound. Politeness to ladies is quite the rule, and a lady
travelling alone may be quite sure of safety, courteous attention,
and assistance; our American cousins of all classes.recognising
women as mothers, sisters, or wives. Conversation is cilrt, as a
rule, and abounds with peculiarities, such as—“You bet,” “I
guess,” “ No, siree,” equivalent to our—“ You be sure,” “ I think,”
“Get out,” and “ Certainly not;” and, among other oddities, it is
always “ on the street,” not “ in,” and “ up town,” or “down town,”
instead of “over,” or “across.” There are no “servants,” they
are all “ helps;” no shopmen, they are all “ clerks;” no shopwomen,
they are all “ young ladies. ” Working men are “ operatives.” The
driver of a locomotive is an “engineer.” A hairdresser, a “ ton-
sorial artist.” Corn-cutters are “ chiropodist professors.” Chemists
are “pharmaceutists.” A baker’s is a “bakery;” a grocer’s “a
grocery;” a railway station, a “ depot.” A cab is a “ hack;” your
luggage is “baggage;” goods are “freight.” “ Limbs” takes the
place of “legs.” Christmas is ignored, and New Year’s-day almost a
cartiival. Silver coins are but nickel. Paper money takes the place
of specie. Ice is left at your front door, like milk, in the summer.
Money is spentfreely, and made quickly. The poor keep poor, and the
rich grow richer. The President has to pay a railway fare, like an
ordinary citizen, and everybody is perfectly free—to do as he wants
you to.
But there is another side to the picture,the contemplation of which
fills us with astonishment and admiration. Scarcely one hundred
years have passed since the minute gun at Lexington sounded the
key-note of American independence; since the royal troops fell
back before the continental army, and the ringing of the bell in the
Independence Hall in the city of Philadelphia proclaimed the adop¬
tion of the Constitution of the United States, announcing at the
same time the advent of a new Republic. Look at her now. Con¬
trast 1775 with 1875. The progress is astonishing. Indomitable
energy has gone forth, and where once was a howling waste, or
rolling prairie, or hostile Indian country, are now flourishing States
and popular cities, and civilisation, with her beneficent presence,
watches over all. England lost a fair province, but the world has
had, in consequence, a brilliant .example of Republicanism. That
example has its defects, as its best friends readily admit; but that
it is destined to ultimately achieve the results its founders foresaw
cannot be denied, and however various individual opinion in
America is upon questions of commercial, political, or national
morality, let but their rights, their liberties, be called into question,
and North and South, East and West-, realise the* spirit of their
national motto, “ E Pluribus Unum ”—the many in one—a motto
which the predatory couriers of that enemy of liberty and progres¬
sion, the Church of Rome, had better heed the meaning of in time,
for Romanism is putting forth all its power to make conquests in
America.
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM.
The Spiritualism of America presents very many points of dif¬
ference in comparison with that of England; its style and character,
genius and thought, are more radical and speculative than our own.
It is conceived by many of its advocates that no question is outside
of its limits; politics, religion, sociology, finance, commerce, and
every imaginable philosophy are broached from its platforms with
a grace of oratory and power of eloquence which, if lacking in
logical acuteness and rational sequence, lend an undeniable charm
to those whose reasonings are not of the sectarian and practical
method. The Bible, Jesus, the Young Men’s Christian Associa¬
tion, nick-named the “ Jesuits'of America,” and the “ Young Men’s
Assassination Society,” are in for a liberal share of criticism
satire, and hard usage. Davis, Peebles, Randolph, Epes Sargent,
and Edmonds, may be classed among the standard authors on the
subject in America, while the Banner of Light and the Religio-Philo-
sophical Journal are the leading weekly newspapers. The Spiritual
Magazine, published in Memphis, Tennessee, by the Rev. Mr. Wat¬
son, gives the Christian liberal view of what we call in this
country Christian Spiritualism, and tracts, pamphlets, and other
literary works are circulated in abundance. The work of
organisation can scarcely be said to be in st prosperous con¬
dition, and on nearly all sides there are laments for what used to be,
when compared with what is. Mediums abound whose gifts are
available for the building of a railway bridge, the curing of a baby,
the finding of a lost purse, advising on intending matrimony, curing
all diseases incidental to physical life, and the propounding of theories
for the spiritual happiness and welfare of all mankind, and the
delivery of lectures; but candour compels me to admit that a vast
quantity of American mediumship is genuinely useful, and many
of the lectures delivered through the inspirational and trance
speakers are well worthy of attention and consideration. The
future of American Spiritualism will, in my opinion, evidence more
of a conservative tendency than has hitherto been the case. The
peculiar breadth and freedom characterising its past and present
utterances, as well as the collective experiences of the whole, are
being subjected to a slow and careful sifting, which, when com¬
pleted, will weed out much that is undesirable, leaving the soil freer
for the growth and development of those ideas of greatness and
goodness with which America so peculiarly abounds, and without
the presence of which American Spiritualism would have long since
disintegrated. On the whole, I was well pleased with Spiritualism
as a movement in the United States, and am in the full and com¬
plete hope of it recovering from its present torpor, and bursting
into lusty health and activity. I fear I have already detained
your patience over long, but I trust my desire to interest you
with the matters I.have placed before you may atone for the
impropriety, if I have committed it, of straining your patience too far.
But, in conclusion, embodying the opinion I have formed alike of
America, its people, customs, and Spiritualism, I am sure we must
all recognise the grandeur of the country and appreciate the energy
of its people, while, if we cannot assimilate many of its customs,
we may at least rejoice and be grateful to them for the knowledge
of that glorious philosophy of Spiritualism which we have received
at their hands, feeling that therein they have amply compensated
us for the political troubles consequent upon the severing of their
connection with us, and the proclamation of American Indepen¬
dence, which was the keystone in the arch of modern Republi¬
canism, as the advent of spirit communion at Hydesville was a
declaration of Spiritual independence, which has for ever over¬
thrown the limitations of ignorance and superstition. (Applause.)
After an interval of ten minutes Miss Sexton sang with good
effect a song called “ The mother I lost long ago,” and Mr.
Pomeroy Tredwen recited “ The Bonnie Dell,” winch was well
received.
After an amusing recitation by Mr. Ogan, a violin duet was
rendered—Si la Stanchezza (Trovatore)—by Messrs. W. Cromarty
and A. Darkin.
Mr. Frederick Sexton next gave a recitation entitled “ The
Sacrilegious Gamesters,” after which Mr. G. Sexton, jun., sang
“ The Mormon,” a comic song.
Mr. G. R. Tapp proposed a vote of thanks to the Chairman and
friends who had contributed to the evening’s amusement, which
was cordially seconded by Mr. Bassett, and carried with acclamation.
A vote of thanks to the secretary, Mr. Blyton, was also accorded,
and the proceedings closed. Some of tfe refreshments had been
presented to the Association by Mr. Grant, of Maidstone.
Mr. Algernon Joy, honorary secretary to the British National
Association of Spiritualists, arrived in London from America on
Friday, November 19th, and was present at the Association’s soiree
on Wednesday evening last.
Some of the American newspapers have printed a fabricated state¬
ment that Mr. Gerald Massey has become insane; a notice of the
rumour has been published in the Banner of Light, and we have been
informed of the fact by letter. There is no truth in the statement
whatever. Mr. Massey is now in London, working hard at the
British Museum at his forthcoming book on The Origin of Myths,
and there is nothing whatever the matter with him.
National Association Winter Meetings.—At the meeting
on Monday evening next, December 6th, Mr. Parkes will read a
paper on Spirit Photography, which will be followed by a discus¬
sion. Any members possessing good spirit photographs are
requested to bring or lend them for exhibition on the occasion.
These meetings are free to all members, and to friends who enter
their names for election'as members.
A recent number of the Evening Standard, in commenting on
the article “ Shall we Import a Fakir ? ” which appeared in this
journal, remarks that the chief objection to the plan “ lies in the
fact that Indian jugglers do not profess to perform their tricks by
the aid of disembodied spirits.” If the writer in the Standard had
read the preceding number of The Spiritualist, he would have found
that the fakir’s belief in the agency of disembodied spirits is
recorded by Jacolliot as a no less pronounced fact than the mani¬
festations themselves ;• and that all his efforts to shake that belief
in the fakir proved unavailing.
The “ Harrison Testimonial ” Fund.—When testimonials in
connection with Spiritualism are on foot, it is customary for the
Spiritual periodicals to call attention to their objects and to their
progress from week to week; but in the present instance it is not
possible for us to express an opinion about a testimonial so closely
related to this journal. The Banner of Light, in the course of a
short leading article, says:—“ We refer our readers to the circular
which we publish in full, forjparticulars which will show how im¬
portant have been the services which Mr. Harrison has rendered,
and how large have been the sacrifices he has made. We can bear
testimony to the multiplicity of his labours, and to the good sense,
fidelity, and devotion to truth which he has manifested, both in his
investigations and in his accounts of the same. In his management
of The Spiritualist he has always subordinated personal interests,
piques, and animosities to the good of Spiritualism. He has done
this either by keeping them altogether from the notice of his readers,
or by referring to them in such terms as to show that in the service
of the truth he can forget himself, and think singly of what befits
the dignity of the great cause he has so worthily and ably advo¬
cated.”
Dec. 3, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
273
ON A FAIR INFANT GONE TO THE WORLD OF LIGHT.
O happy beauty in thy face,
Fair dawn of the unrisen soul!
O glimmerings of a heavenly grace
That, like sweet sounds or odours, stole
Into thy childish ways,
And, as the light on water plays,
To our amaze,
Glanced in thy pretty gestures, shook
A brightness on thy look;
Deepened thy mother-seeking eyes,
And filled thy forehead with surmise
Of life’s awakening mysteries.
But as the nightingale will long
Fret with delay and broken note
The ear that waits upon its song,
Then fly the bough, and in remote
Woodland or glen outpour
The wealth of its melodious lore—
To thou, before
We heard the music of thy mind
All its sweet coils unwind,
Gavest heaven the hearing, and, on high,
Rounding to perfect melody,
Makest glad the listeners of the sky.
O peace! We know not what shall be!
Or that the murmur of the shell.
Kissed by the tides of its own sea,
To sudden joyousness will swell!
. Slow kindling in the rose
The sof o fire of its beauty glows—
The slow stream flows
In broadening channel to the deep—
Slow from its winter sleep
Awakes the summer-longing earth—
All lovely things and things of worth
Pass through long travail to the birth.
So may thy childhood linger still,
And that sweet angel'in thee born
W ith slow but kindly growth fulfil
‘The promise of her natal morn;
That we, once more, may trace
With glad recovering eyes the grace
Of thy first face,
And call thee ours, and shed the tears
Of our undisappointed years,
And feel in heaven a home, and know
The fire that warmed our hearts below
Burns still, but with transfigured glow. ,
S.
©orresponTieuce,
[Greatfreedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.] j
THE TREATMENT OP MEDIUMS.
Sir,—Can you afford me space for a few observations on the
subject of the treatment of our mediums ?
I hear that several very promising young mediums are at present
under development, and who bid fair, with proper management, to
equal the best known of their predecessors. Are we to welcome
these recruits with sympathy and encouragement, or are we to leave
them to the tender mercies of those who hate the very name of
Spiritualism ?
We may doubtless acknowledge that impostors have possibly,
from interested motives or for the gratification of a morbid love of
notoriety, simulated various phenomena when their natural rnedium-
istic powers have failed them. When such persons are unmistakably
convicted they should be shunned by all truth-seeking investigators,
not only in the interests of the public, but also for the sake of
honest mediums themselves.
. On the other hand, as long as our mediums conduct themselves
with propriety, they should meet with the support and sympathy of
all earnest Spiritualists.
I am sorry to say that, in addition to the misconduct of certain
mediums, there are frequent instances of individuals attending both
public and private circles who imitate the raps and movements of
tables,for the express purpose of throwing ridicule upon the proceed¬
ings. Such persons, when detected, should be immediately exposed,
and be quietly requested to leave the company they have thus
ventured to insult.
It is lamentable to consider that some of these persons, who seem
to be actuated merely by the childish desire of being thought clever,
occasionally belong to what the world calls the class of gentlemen;
but they ought to remember that deception, from whatever motive
it may arise, is still deception.
Private mediums can generally protect themselves by being very
particular as to whom they admit to their circles; public mediums
are unfortunately at the mercy of those who, because they have
paid their entrance fee, think they are therefore entitled to disturb
and waste the time of those who are earnestly engaged in the inves¬
tigation of .truth.
Mediums, I should suppose, require the necessaries of life as other
people do, and when they conduct themselves with propriety, are as
much entitled to the fees as are the members of any other pro¬
fession.
Their calling is, from its very nature, a most arduous and trying
one, and when in addition to the strain on their physical strength
and nervous energy they are exposed to the scoffs, taunts, ahd
insults of thoughtless or malevolent individuals, their case may
indeed be considered as worthy of commiseration. J. James.
Tottenham, November 17th.
A PROPOSED SPIRITUALIST INSTITUTION IN MANCHESTER.
Sir,—There can be no question about the desirability of es¬
tablishing in every town working centres to facilitate individual
and social effort in the development of Spiritualism.
We wish now especially to direct the attention of friends in the
Manchester district to our advertisement on another page of this
journal, and we most earnestly appeal for their co-operation to es¬
tablish a rendezvous on the principles therein mentioned.
There is room for work for all, and surely none will shirk exer¬
cise, for it is the highway to development. ■'
The teaching of Spiritualism tends to individualise the human
spirit, and individualism without socialism must sink into the result
of inactivity, namely, selfishness.
We do not appeal to eighty, or to a section of society, but to
every one, hoping that he or she who is likely to be most benefited
thereby, will come forward to the pleasant task of unveiling truth,
unfolding knowledge, and nurturing love.
We appeal very urgently for the co-operation of our sisters,
without whose aid no effort to spiritualise humanity can be suc¬
cessful.
On behalf of the proposal committee, I am, yours truly,
Rowland Buxton. 1
Manchester, Nov. 22nd, 1875.
THE VISION OP THE LOTUS FLOWER.
Sir,—Mr. Jencken, speaking of the reliability of spirit commu¬
nications, said of his wife, “ In those deeper stages of trance she
would read whole pages out of books in the spirit land; in her
visions she frequently saw a lotus flower, which opened its leaves,
and inside she saw written communications. The messages thus
given never proved to be untrue; they never varied in the slightest
degree from truth.” May not this fact explain the origin and mean¬
ing of the Buddhist prayer, “ Om mani padi om—0 the jewel in the
lotus,” Which has so puzzled Oriental scholars? We may suppose
Sakya-muni, or some early Buddhist seer, during some such interior
vision, making the exclamation, which has become a form of devo¬
tion to his followers. Moore, in Lalla Rookh, a poem professedly
founded on Eastern customs and traditions, makes the peri, in con¬
trasting earthly and heavenly flowers, say—
,l But what are the fairest that ever was known,
To the lote-tree springing by Allah’s throne,
Whose flowers have a soul in every leaf ? ”
And Jacob Bohme frequently speaks of the time and mystery of
the lily flower. J. W. E.
127, Arlington-street, New North Road.
REVIEWING A REVIEWER.
Sir,—Recently a highly-esteemed friend, a near relative of a
titled gentleman in England, called upon me,, and, in the course of
conversation, made the following statement: Some years since,
visiting an acquaintance, a clergyman, I think, in a small New
England village, I was told that very curious phenomena took
place there. “Yes, in my own house,” said the man; “and to
convince you of it I will call my daughter, and you shall see.”
The daughter was called, and putting her hands upon a table, it
moved about the room. My friend, whose weight is about 200 lbs.,
asked the privilege of mounting this erratic piece of furniture.
The request was granted, but the table moved as readily as before.
My friend then asked the force—whatever it might be—addressing
it as if it possessed intelligence, to tip him off. Immediately the
table rose on one side so as to loosen his hold, then suddenly went
up on the opposite side and landed him squarely on the floor.
Time passed away, and these persons met again. The circum¬
stances just narrated were recalled by my friend, but the other
party denied point blank that such things had taken place in his
house; and this simply because Spiritualism was unpopular.
A scientific gentleman has been known to admit that certain
phenomena took place in his presence; yet, after returning home
and considering that such an admission might cause his sanity
to be called in question, concluded that he had been mistaken.
These two statements are not made in the interest of Spirit¬
ualism especially, but rather to show the perversity of the human
mind; to show a weakness, a bias, that will resort even to falsehood
(“ the vice of slaves,” a delinquency revolting to every true gentle¬
man) where a contrary course might possibly involve the support
of a cause which a predetermination had tabooed.
An article on Spiritualism'in the October number of the British
Quarterly is from the pen of one somewhat of the class above
referred to. While I acknowledge the great ability of the writer,
274
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 3, 1875.
can see both weakness, malice, and bigotry in his statements.
“ Spirits called,” says he, “ do not speak (or mite, I suppose allow¬
able,) in their native tongues, nor utter their natural sentiments,
but express, in feeble English, strange interest in trivial details.”
Once in my own house, where three persons were receiving inde¬
pendent written communications from spirit friends, there came
two, wholly unexpected,—one from Benj. West, in peculiar Quaker
phraseology, the other in elegant, appropriate, sympathetic French,
from Lamartine. “ Gullible credulity ” would, probably, be the
explanation of our Quarterly critic; but you will see the reason¬
ableness of the conclusion that the communication in French was
from the celebrated Frenclvhistorian and poet, when I say that my
father-in-law, Commander Bartlett, of the U.S. Navy, who from
the spirit world had just been writing to us, was, when in Paris, a
friend of Mons. Lamartine, and so greatly his admirer that he
caused a bust in marble to be made of him.
Quite a worthy person in New York, whom I know, has stated
to me that he has, in reply to questions written in Latin and
Chinese, received through his own hands satisfactory responses
written in Latin and Chinese, and yet is acquainted with neither of
these languages. «The questions in Latin were written by a priest,
who laid his cross upon the document while it, stilt unread by the
medium, was being answered from the spirit world; those in Chinese
were from a Chinaman in Barton, who, through the reply, was in¬
formed of his father’s death in his native land.
Again, the statement in the Quarterly, regarding the so-called
fraud practised upon R. D. Owen, is only partially, if at all true.
The writer, if he knew anything about it that would aid him in
his assault upon Spiritualism, should have also known (and pro¬
bably did) the other features of the affair, viz., that when investiga¬
tion was entered into, the trumped-up expose had every appearance
of being the greatest fraud of the two, for diligent search could not
at’the proper time bring forth the supposititious Katie who had
sworn falsely regarding her personating of this spirit, when she (a
Mrs. White) was known positively to have been elsewhere. That
genuine spirit materialisations took place in the presence of Mr.
Owen hardly any one questions who is conversant with the experi¬
ments made by Colonel Olcott with the media who were involved
in the noted Philadelphia transactions. Was there then no cheat¬
ing? Probably there was occasionally. But the writer in the
Quarterly, whilst denouncing as vulgar, profane, or inane, the
“manifestations” of modern times, very gravely speaks of “ Divine
Revelation,” and of “ The injunctions of the Decalogue.” Now how
were these “ Divine Revelations ” made ? And is it not quite pro¬
bable there were then some would-be-writers in a Quarterly (had
there been a Quarterly in the time of Moses and the prophets) who
with equal force and propriety questioned the authority of these
enunciations as he, our reviewer, questions those of the present day?
If our Jove of the Quarterly has any direct assurance from the
Almighty, and can give us any positive proof of it, that the Bible
closed the record of divine revelations, then I will humbly bow to
his dictum; but as his assumptions are founded in a bigotry that is
bleareyed, and a faith (without works) that is dead, I prefer to
accept what I now get from the active spirit-world (from my mother
rather than from Moses), and the daily revelations which the good
Father makes to us in fruit and flowers, in the song of the bird and
the bee, and in the anthem of revolving worlds.
In conclusion, let me say that if the referred-to writer in the
Quarterly had consulted The Apocatastacia published in this country
in 1858, and written, I believe, by a professor of the Greek language
in the University of Vermont, he would have produced a much more
interesting, a more valuable article, and in keeping with his own
sentiments.
What says lamblicus ? (quoting from the above-named work)—
“ If, also, the power of the gods proceeds in pre-manifestations as
far as to things inanimate, such as pebble stones, rods, pieces of
wood, etc., this very thing is most admirable—because it imparts
soul to things inanimate, motion to things immovable, and makes all
things to partake of reason, and to be defined by the measures of
intellection, though possessing no portion of reason from themselves.
For as the divinity sometimes makes some stupid man to speak
wisely, through which it becomes manifest to every one, that this
(is) not a certain human, but a divine work; thus, also, he reveals
through things deprived of knowledge, conceptions which precede
all knowledge. And at the same time he declares to men that the
signs which are exhibited are worthy of belief, and that they are
superior to nature. Through them, also, he inserts in us wisdom.”
G. L. Ditson, M.D.
Albany, New York, U.S., Nov. 17th.
CALIGRAPHY AS A TEST OP CHARACTER.
Sir,—In the very fair and accurate report which you have
afforded of the proceedings during the last meeting of the Psycho¬
logical Society, you omit to mention the reply which I gave to the
strictures on my paper, that it “ did not state anything from which
a deduction could be formed; that it brought forward no definite
principle; and enunciated no general law on the subject.” I fully
admit the truth of this remark, but, as I stated in my reply, to
fulfil those requirements, I ought to be allowed, not twenty minutes
—to which the paper was limited—but at least twenty hours. In
the paper itself I mentioned that “ in a brief paper of this descrip¬
tion it is necessarily impossible to lay down any particular direc¬
tions for deciding on character by caligraphy, and which would
require a volume, and a pretty big one, satisfactorily and safely to
effect. The most indeed that I can hope to accomplish by this sort
of paper is to demonstrate at least the possibility of caligraphy
being applied to serve for this purpose at all.”
And this latter, it appears to me, is all that a scientific society,
such as the Psychological Society, has to do with. The manifes¬
tation of character by handwriting is a very interesting branch of
psychology, but to attempt to teach persons how to judge of one
another’s character by their handwriting, is quite beyond the pro¬
vince of a scientific society, and to pretend to do this in one short
paper would be little short of imposture. As I also stated in my
paper, great caution should be used in forming an opinion of cha¬
racter by this means; and consequences the most serious may
result from the effort being made by persons who have only a
smattering of knowledge on the subject, such as a short paper
might afford. On this account I did not allude to any autographs
of living characters, although I have a large collection of them.
Nor am I disposed to do anything to encourage a practice which
no one should pursue without thoroughly preparing himself for the
undertaking. George Harris.
Iselipps Manor, Northolt, Southall, W.,
27 th Nov., 1875.
iPrabtncial
LIVERPOOL.
A FRACAS AT A SEANCE.
Mr. Coates writes:—
“ On Wednesday evening, the 24th inst., at one of our usual
seances, held for materialisations at the ‘ Spiritual Centre,’ Russell-
street, a number of Spiritualists and others assembled to witness
the usual ‘materialised form’ and other so-called phenomena wit¬
nessed at these seances. Mr. Fegan Egerton was the medium. At
a previous seance the sitters observed the form of a ‘lovely-looking
female ’—to use the language of one of our local daily papers. Mr.
Lamont secured the medium with tape to the chair, and the chair
was fastened with a screw to the floor. The sitters then blended
their voices in sweet song to increase the harmony. Presently
they were favoured with lights, small, but sufficient to attract
attention; finally, after a little delay, the sitters were able to descry
something more definite—the growing outline of a form of a beauti¬
ful spirit-face, with a lovely gauze veil drooping from the head;
these were exposed to view by the spirit-light, which soon illumi¬
nated one cheek and then the other. The head bowed towards the
circle, and the light flitted about; every one seem'ed perfectly satis¬
fied, even giving vent to audible expressions of pleasure. Mr. J.
Lamont did not, however, agree with the rest; he had kept his
ears open, and heard the medium operating in the cabinet; at this
juncture he sprang forward, seized Mr. Egerton, and called for a
light, which, when obtained, revealed Mr. Lament holding Mr.
Egerton fast. The latter stood fairly trapped, with a mask, to
which were attached several yards of muslin, in his hand. He* was
permitted to retire, and Mr. Lamont, I believe, holds the wonderful
mask. I have been shown some of the ‘ spirit-drapery.’ Before
leaving, Mr. Egerton made some strange statements—namely, that
he was urged to ‘take his present course by some ‘ prominent
Spiritualists,’(?) and that certain private mediums in town were
adopting the same means to deceive that he had done. I must not
forget to state that I have not heard the medium’s version, and if
the statements in this report are false, I sincerely hope they will
be made known by the parties interested as soon as possible.”
The Liverpool Courier, in its report, makes the following state¬
ment:—
The medium, on being taxed with imposture, merely murmured,
“Well, well,” and finally, overwhelmed and estranged at their own
foolishness, the audience dispersed in disgust. Before leaving, the
“ medium” exonerated the proprietor of the establishment from all
knowledge of or complicity in this trick, although he confessed that
others, prominent local Spiritualists, were aware of it, and actually
induced him to commit the imposture, and also that acts of simula¬
tion were invariably practised by professing mediums.
Mr. Lamont has sent us the following account of the seance:—
199,,London-road, Liverpool,.Nov. 27, 1875.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—As you will no doubt hear something from other sources
of the exposure of Egerton, I beg to say that the account furnished
by the Liverpool Courier is so garbled and coloured that almost the
only accurate part of it is the broad fact of the discovery of the
fraud. There was no exclamation of delight, nor, indeed, any
expression of opinion by the audience, except the simple question
asked by one or two individuals, *‘ Do you see that?" The whole of
the article in the Courier has been supplied—not by an eye-witness
—but by parties who are well known1 to the Spiritualists of Liver¬
pool, and have made the most o"! an occurrence, bad in itself, no
doubt, but furnishing ho justification for the insertion of an article,
the conclusions of which are quite in keeping with the details of the
exposi.
Dec. 3, 1875
THE SPIRITUALIST
275
Now for the facts. It is well known that Egerton was a medium
of considerable power: as to his general characteristics I say nothing
here. About eighteen months ago it was rumoured that his me-
diumship had in a great measure left him, and nothing much was
heard of him till a few weeks ago, when he made proposals to give
a series of seances for a few Spiritualists who have formed a
society, limited to thirty members, for the purpose of investi¬
gating physical phenomena. The result of this proposal was
that three or four of the members of the said society went
to one of the ordinary seances. These were given by Egerton, at
Mr. Wilson’s house, at a charge of one shilling each sitter. Friends
came with the intention of observing the nature of the manifestations,
I was informed that on the previous Wednesday evening the
first attempt at materialisation was made ; only five persons were
present, and I was informed that they were not satisfied. Here
permit me to say that I think rope-tying should be discarded,
strong thread or fine tape being far superior. In the case at pre¬
sent under consideration I used fine tape, and fastened the medium
in such a fashion as to render it possible for him to unfasten, but
not to fasten himself again. The policy of this course, I appre¬
hend, will be obvious to every one,- Had the fraud not been dis¬
covered, the fact of the medium being loose would have of course
rendered the character of the manifestations valueless; but in this
case I was so satisfied of gross fraud that I had no hesitation in
acting as I did, the result being the seizure of Egerton with a
mask, to which was attached a quantity of muslin. He was at this
time loose, standing at the outer edge of the curtain forming the
cabinet, holding the mask in his left hand, evidently preparing to
apply the phosphorus with the right.
I do not feel disposed to begin moralising on this—another dis¬
covery of fraud; but I feel sure that there is far less imposture in
connection with this subject than even Spiritualists think. The
frequent exposures prove that in the present day any Systematic
attempt to deceive will soon be cut short.
I would further urge the duty of those who are in the possession
of the knowledge which Spiritualists lay claim to, to practice that
unbounded charity which all exalted spirits teach in the case of
those whose moral sensibilities are so far blunted as to permit them
to prostitute mind and body in connection with the most sacred
feelings of our nature for the acquisition of filthy lucre. But even
these have a claim on us, and if progress is a law of God in nature,
let us see to it that we -do not at least retard it; but while with
unsparing hand exposing crime, let us bear in mind that the victim
is a child of our common Father. I must ask pardon for this
digression, or conclusion, rather—feeling that I am assuming a
position to which I lay no claim, viz., that of a teacher of morals.
The foregoing fact serves to teach a practical lesson, viz., that we
must keep our eyes and ears open, especially when money is the
prime motive in bringing the medium before the public. Another
lesson we learn is to value the more those who can say, in the midst
of abundant labours—“ We covet no man’s silver or gold.”
John Lamont.
Recent exposures in America, France, and England, show that
among powerful physical mediums,,and the spirits who surround
them, are some who are neither conspicuous for truth nor for
honesty, in accordance, perhaps, with the general law that “the
lower the spirit the greater is its control over common matter.”
Several dissensions in Spiritualism, if traced to their roots, will be
found to have originated in untruthful stories invented and cir¬
culated by the lowest and not the better class of physical mediums.
All who repeat inventions coming from such sources ought to be
held as responsible for them as if they had manufactured the un¬
truths themselves. Further, general experience is now convincing
Spiritualists that in order to protect the movement from the effects
of imposture and false charges by such persons as the Holmeses,
Buguet, and Egerton, few manifestations should be publicly re¬
corded in which the reliability of the medium forms any element in
proof of their reality; the evidence must be altogether independent
of anything the mediums may say or do, and should be attested by
two or three honourable witnesses at the same time.
The fact must not be overlooked that there are low spirits who
will help mediums in imposture; who have the power of freeing
them from bonds, and of carrying masks and all kinds of things into
a cabinet in the middle of a seance, just as they sometimes bring fruit
and flowers to circles. Further,they can keep their mediums under
mesmeric influence for days, so that when to casual observers they
are in their normal condition, and responsible for their actions,
they are as much under the supreme control of an outside power
as was Mr. Redman’s mesmeric sensitive during the experiments at
the recent meeting of the Brixton Psychological Society. A mate¬
rialisation medium ought always to refuse to sit except under test
conditions applied by competent men, so that if they should be
freed during the seance, or supplied with masks, it shall manifestly
have been done by some power not their own.
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
A CONTINUATION of the plan of holding the seances at the rooms
of the Spiritualist Society, Weir’s-court, for physical phenomena in
the light, meets with varied success. On the evening of Thursday,
last week, with Miss Fairlamb as the medium, no results were
obtained ; but on Sunday evening last both Misses Wood and Fair-
lamb were present, seated outside, and some distance from the
cabinet; they were visible to all in a low light. After sitting and
singing for an hour or more the company present were rewarded
for their patience by seeing a cardboard tube come flying out of the
cabinet, and hitting one of them full in the face. Then a tam¬
bourine came out, and finally a chair was thrown over the heads of
the mediums into the centre of the circle. All this was done in a
minute.
SUNDERLAND.
A society for the investigation of Spiritual phenomena has just
been formed here, and consists of at present about a dozen members.
It holds its meetings at the house of Mr. J. Rutherford, in Salem-
street South, at which place its first seance was held on Tuesday,
23rd, when Mr. Rhodes attended as a developing medium,
proved so far a success that two gentlemen showed medial powers,
one very strongly so. Some minor physical phenomena occurred.
The members are anxious to obtain the assistance of other local
mediums. The inquirers present consisted of some of the most
influential gentlemen in the town, including two solicitors, a mem¬
ber of the press, Mr. Morgan, a well-known mesmerist, and other
gentlemen of intelligence. They desire to go thoroughly into the
investigation, and form a society on a good basis as soon as pos¬
sible. As their numbers increase they wish to take premises of
their own, so as to relieve Mr. Rutherford, to whom they feel much
indebted.
SOUTHAMPTON.
MAB.VELLOTJS MANIFESTATIONS IN THE EIGHT.
The marvellous manifestations through Dr. Monck’s mediumship
are creating as great a stir in Southampton as they did in the Isle
of Wight, and the local newspapers, including the Southampton
Observer, the Southampton Times, the Hampshire Advertiser, and the
Hampshire Independent contain fair reports of them. One of the
seances was held at the house of Mr. Charles Cox, the editor of the
Southampton Times, and among the witnesses were Mr. Alderman
Payne, Mr. Councillor Miller, Mr. Cooksey, J.P., Mr. Councillor
Cleveland, and Dr. Palk. There was no concealed machinery in
one, at least, of the musical instruments, for the town crier lent his
great bell to be performed upon by the spirits.
We have received the following letter on the subject:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—Dr. Monck has been holding seances in Southampton the
last few days. He has been most successful, and staggered, if not
convinced, some of the shrewdest men of business in the place, in¬
cluding lawyers, physicians, merchants, editors, and several aider-
men, all of them first-class men, holding positions of considerable
influence in this town. Everybody seems bewildered, as the tests
on which Dr. Monck has taken care to insist have been so strict and
complete that there has been left no loophole for the usual inane
theories of trickery. Once or twice his seances have been com¬
parative failures, but that is only saying that they are genuine, and
that he cannot produce or command phenomena at will.
My own experiences with him have been so astounding that I
cannot find words to describe them. As soon as he entered my
house and sat at the supper table the marvels began. A vase of
flowers stood in the middle of the table. One of these flowers per¬
petually waved to and fro, backwards and forwards, as though an
unseen hand were manipulating it, and all the other flowers were
perfectly still. A dinner napkin glided off the table before our
astonished eyes. We saw it on the floor. Next moment half-a-
dozen of us searched for it in vain. The instant we had ceased the
search it was put in my little daughter’s hand by a hand that felt,
she said, “ as cold as death.” The names of some of our deceased
friends were given by the raps. Some of these names being
French were difficult for an Englishman to spell or even pronounce,
yet were they correctly given. All this and much more occurred
while Dr. Monck sat quietly using his knife and fork, on “ gas¬
tronomic feats intent.”
Most of my sittings with him haye been in the light, when raps
have come at request, under all our hands on a table fifteen feet
long, and on a bookcase twenty feet distant from him. A letter has
been placed under the table, picked up instantly by an unseen hand,
and placed in the hand of a non-Spiritualist. The same letter was
placed on the floor again, when it rose up, went to its owner, who
sat opposite the medium and fully seven feet from him, and fell on
her dress. The letter was distinctly seen to be surrounded with
a beautiful luminous halo. The name of a lady (a total stranger to Dr.
Monck) and thatof her deceased husband were rapped out, alsoames-
sage from the latter, alluding to a .great error he had made regarding
her in his will, and for which he begged forgiveness, and refused to be
content till he obtained it. He also conversed with her on strictly
private matters, and gave her most sound and timely counsels
thereon. The lady is a non-Spiritualist and had never before at¬
tended a seance. She declares that the communications were in just
her husband’s own familiar language. He mentioned a visit he had
paid with her to Ryde Pier, and gave the name of a friend who had
accompanied them. At our request we were touched by hands. My
.little daughter, sitting at a side of the table away from Dr. Monck,
276
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Deo. 3, 1875.
exclaimed that she was being grasped and pulled, and we saw her
chair, and another lady’s, who sat at another side of the table, op¬
posite the medium, pulled back some distance repeatedly. One
lady’s dress was powerfully pulled both before, at the side, and
behind her.
We now sat in a semicircle around the fire. The manifestations
followed us. It was a fine test, for the medium was fully in our
view, every part of his body. My wife and family had recently
been to the seaside. They were correctly told the name of the
town where they went on a trip; that their carriage, unlike the
others, had an awning above it, that a lady had sustained an injury
to her thigh in a certain way, and that two of my wife’s friends, on
reaching their home, and finding they had mislaid the door-key, had
to get in at the window. My son was told that at a certain place
he had thrown cudgels at sticks with cocoa-nuts perched on top,
and had won "one of them, and that on arriving at their destination
they had found the door locked, and on retracing their steps up a
steep hill, my daughter had been helped up hill by holding her
brother’s coat-tails. They were told that on a particular day they
had been to an aquarium, and on another occasion had witnessed the
feats of the “ performing fleas ” that were harnessed to a minute
coach. A lady was told she had recently been a sea voyage,
suffered from the mal de mer, visited Jersey, slept in a particular
hotel, and that more recently she had declined an invite to take
another sea voyage, the private reason being also given for the
refusal. The medium gave the name of a person who had had a
private interview with her, and the subject of their confidential con¬
versation together. He saw and correctly described her mother’s
spirit, and that of another relative who had died abroad, and so on,
almost ad infinitum. It is utterly impossible Dr. Monck could have
known any of these facts beforehand. 'It could not be “thought¬
reading,” for we had forgotten many circumstances named.
The physical phenomena in the light were likewise extraordinary.
A pile of heavy books has been lifted several inches off the table at
the window; a watch has been similarly raised and carried some
distance over the table, while one of our pocket-handkerchiefs has
been repeatedly raised in like manner. We all put our hands on it,
and felt a living hand underneath it. While one was feeling this,
Dr. Monck left the table, and stood away while we lifted the hand¬
kerchief and examined it at the table at his request to see if there
were any machinery there to account for it. Of course nothing was
found.
During the occurrence of all the phenomena recorded in thisletter,
Dr. Monck sat with his hands in full view, and without movement.
Some of us looked under the table several times, but the phenomena
continued all the same. From the beginning of the seance the three
gas jets were burning brilliantly, being turned full on. A more
satisfactory test seance it was impossible to have. And we have
had many such with Dr. Monck, each one presenting various new
features of interest. Our newspapers are teeming with reports of
Dr. Monck’s seances. Public attention has been aroused, and great
good is, I believe, resulting. A. Gkicouet.
107, High-street, Southampton, Nov. 29th, 1875,
The Royal Society has this year presented its Royal Medal to
Mr. William Crookes for his discoveries in physical science.
Ma. Mobse in the Provinces.—Mr. Morse leaves town on
Monday next for a three nights’ engagement in Birmingham. The
meetings will be held in the Temperance Hall on the evenings of
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, the 6th, 7th, and 8th of De¬
cember. The proceedings will commence at eight in the evening
on Tuesday and Wednesday. On Thursday evening they will begin
at 6.30, on which occasion a tea and social meeting will be given, at
which Mr. Morse will narrate some of his American experiences.
The above meetings have been specially arranged, and are receiving
the assistance of the Birmingham Spiritualists’ Institute. Towards
the end of the present month Mr. Morse will leave London on a
lecturing tour in the provinces. Early applications for his services
are requested; all letters to be addressed to him at Warwick-
cpttage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E., London.
Cured by Dr. J. R. Newton.—“ To the Editor of the Banner
of Light.—Sir,—For the sake of humanity be pleased to insert in
your valuable paper the following wonderful cure made through the
means of mesmerised letters, by Dr. J. R. Newton, of California. I
had what is called a slow ulcer on my ankle for three years, and had
four different doctors to attend it; no cure or relief ; varicose veins
on my leg for many years, and at times they would be very large;
also the gout in both great toes, which I have been subject to for
the last sixteen years. The gout I consider the worst of all diseases
the human frame is subject to. My father was a martyr to it for
some forty-five years. Some months ago I wrote to Dr. J. R. Newton,
of California, stating my age and disease. I received a mesmerised
letter in about ten days—no medicine. I was cured in a few weeks
of the ulcer, varicose veins, and—what the medical faculty of
Europe cannot do—of the “ gout,” so that I can walk two or three
miles from home. Sufferers from the gout, lose no time in sending to
Dr. J. R. Newton for relief.—Thomas Rudderforth. Fontana,
Miami Co., Elan., Oct. 21st, 1875. P.S.—I am well known as a
resident of this place for the last five years : also my long illness is
knowa to the public.—T. B.”
THE INVESTIGATION OF SPIRITUALISM AT ST.
PETERSBURG UNIVERSITY.
M. Aksakof informs us that the Scientific Com¬
mittee of the St. Petersburg University, has begun to
get deeply interested in the phenomena of Spiritualism,
and he has asked Mr. Charles Blackburn to take steps
to induce the Davenport Brothers, who were a few days
ago in Italy> to visit St. Petersburg] without delay.
Prince "Wittgenstein writes that the funds for bringing
mediums to St. Petersburg have been recently consi¬
derably increased.
If the committee is fair enough to publicly admit
the facts so far as it has witnessed them up to the
present moment, that would do much to abolish the
reluctance on the part of mediums to go to Russia, for
the doings and sayings of scientific men and learned
bodies in the past in relation to phenomena they have
witnessed, have destroyed all respect for a proportion
of them among Spiritualists.
Lastly, we would urge American and Russian
Spiritualists to exert themselves to induce Dr. Slade,
who is about the best test medium in America, to sit
for the St. Petersburg committee. It is better to go to
much expense in getting one thoroughly good medium,
than six weak ones.
EXPERIMENTS IN MESMERISM.
Nothing is more wanted at the present time than the
familiarising of experienced Spiritualists with the phe¬
nomena of mesmerism, for every one of us ought to know,
from personal observation, how helplessly a sensitive
may act under the control of a mesmerist, while his
eyes are open, while he is walking about, and to all
appearance has all his faculties under his own control.
The question whether powerful physical mediums are at
any time responsible for their acts, cannot be decided
without a full and close examination of analogous pheno¬
mena in mesmerism. It is to he hoped that the Winter
Meetings Committee of the National Association of
Spiritualists will arrange for experimental lectures on
this subject, at 88, Great Russell-street. Messrs.
Redman, Sheldon Chadwick, and other mesmerists,
might be engaged to attend and to bring their sensitives
and clairvoyants with them.
The Winter Meetings Committee recently passed the
following resolutions:—
That Spiritualists who have had large experience
of physical mediumship in their own families, be in¬
vited to give the results of their observations, especially
on the following points:—
1. The conditions favouring manifestations, both as
regards the medium and his surroundings.
2. The identity of the spirits or other intelligences
manifesting.
3. Are the chief spirits ho produce physical mani¬
festations drawn to the mediums by affection, or other¬
wise?
4. The reliability of the communications given.
5. The responsibility of the medium when not
apparently under control.
6. The effect upon the medium of the development
of mediumship.
7. Any other facts affecting the question.
The Royal Institution session begins directly after Christmas.
Among the lecturers are Lord Lindsay, Mr. William Crookes, Pro¬
fessor Tyndall, Professor Huxley, and Earl Stanhope. The
programme includes a more interesting range of subjects [and
speakers than ■was the case last season.
Dec. 3, 1875,
THE SPIKITUALIST.
m
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION BAZAAR
A SALE of the Articles left from the Association’s Bazaar,
in May 'will be commenced at 38, Great Enssell-street, on "Wednesday,
Dec. 1st, and will be continued during the week. Among the articles are
some pictures by David Duguid, executed in the unconscious trance, and
which will be sold for the benefit of the medium; one or two musical
boxes, some pieftes of fancy needlework, and other objects of usefulness.
The pictures and musical-boxes may also be raffled for; the other article
will be sold at moderate prices.
Psychopathic institution for the cure
OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Islington. A good “ Magnetic ”
healer in attendance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a large
amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers, will be shortly
issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office at 38, Great Bussell-
stroet, London, for sale at public meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication as this, the
current spiritual newspapers not always containing the most suitable or
most condensed information for persons to whom the subject of Spirit¬
ualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed, and kept on
sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at spiritual meetings throughout
the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
valuable channel for advertisements
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and others. The
charge for advertisements will be One Shilling for the first twenty-five
words, and Sixpence for every additional twenty-five words, or portion
thereof. Displayed advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as the publica¬
tion will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies with copies
at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the said societies may thus
considerably increase their income by the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to the Editor of
The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, "W.O.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MES-
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen
^3 formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec-
tica^Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific.^ and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism
MIRACLES AND ‘MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Mass’ey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U. S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents: The Anti-Supernaturalism of the Present Age:
Science!and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science;
the Spirit ! and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism ; Thoughts
on Spiritualism; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles and Pneumatology
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. 12mo., 600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and ah account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is
PROSPECTUS OF THE MANCHESTER FREE PLATFORM
AND SPIRITUAL INSTITUTE.
IT has been often, a source of remark and surprise that in
this populous, industrial and intellectual centre, abounding as it does
with freethinking Spiritualists, there should be no institution in existence
at which Spiritualism may find a ceiitralised home. And this we say with¬
out the slightest disparagement of any present existing institution, since it
will be seen that the present scheme will work upon such a widely different
basis as not in any degree deleteriously to interfere, but will rather
strengthen the hands of all reformatory workers, in whatever sphere
of action.
THE PROPOSAL
then, briefly, is as followsTo start upon a very small scale, so as to allow
full scope for development, an institute under the above title. The objects
in view are, to form a
CENTRAL HOME FOR SPIRITUALISM,
at which Spiritualists of all grades of opinion may freely mingle, and
facilities be given for social conference, and the reception of public and
private travelling Spiritualists, together with their introduction to the Man¬
chester public and Spiritualists.
In short, to oiler, as far as possible, upon the small basis upon which it
will originate all the facilities of a
SPIRITUALISTIC CLUB
At which progressive workers generally may also feel at home.
Also to establish courses of readings, lectures, seances, &c., as may be
afterwards determined, together with a public shop and free reading-room,
at which the English spiritual journals, and, as far as possible, foreign
papers will be exposed for sale and perusal.
It is also proposed in time to establish a progressive library.
METHOD OF FLOATING THE CONCERN.;
That not less than fifty persons donate £1 each, to be considered as a
gratuity, which fund in the aggregate will be devoted solely and entirely
to the establishment of the affair.
TO WORK THE INSTITUTE
It will be necessary to establish a permanent income—to ensure which it
will also be necessary to have at least eighty members, at a subscription of
2s. 6d. per month, or 7s. 6d. per quarter, payable in advance, which,
together with the profit upon literature, seances, tic., Is considered adequate
to commence upon.
THE COMMITTEE
Is to consist of fifteen, elected from and by the members, and will remain
in office six months. All officers to be honorary, save the manager, who
will also act as secretary.
Voting by ballot.
It is requested that all promises of membership and of subscriptions to
the £50 fund, and all inquiries may be forwarded to R. Buxton, 44, Princes-
street, Sussex-street, Lower Broughton, Manchester, before the 15th ult.
It is also announced that a public meeting will be held to discuss the
project and hear suggestions thereon on Friday, December 3rd, at the
Temperance Hall, Ordsall -lane, Regent-road, Salford, at eight p.m.
COMMITTEE, PRO TEN.
Mb. Chiswell,
„ George Dawson,
„ Edwin Hall,
„ Archibald Proctor,
„ Thomas Perris,
„ Rowland Buxton, Secretary, pro tem.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED ENGLISH¬
MEN. A practical suggestion for a model colony—Congenial English
society, lovely scenery, a delightfu climate, and the most fertile of soils.
By Frederick A. Binney.
London Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
TO MR. RICHMOND.—Geo. Smith would be glad of
an opportunity to correspond with the gentleman named Richmond,
who was staying at Richmond Hotel, Bowling Green, Kentucky, U.S., in
December, 1872, if he will kindly send his address to G. J. Smith,
Spiritualist office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, till called for.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.  
MR. S. R. REDMAN, Professor of Animal Magnetism,
begs to inform inquirers apd others, that he is prepared to attend
Private Seances at the houses of investigators, and give unique illustrations
of Mesmeric and Psychological Phenomena, as recently given by him
before the members of “ The Brixton Psychological Society.” For terms
and particulars apply by letter to Professor Redman, Brixton-hill, S.W,
Mesmerism, electro - biology, fascina¬
tion.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post. Pamphlet
and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp. Address, 9, Granville-
square, London, W.C. At home daily from 10 till 5.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on.
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifcge
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
KEVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Snciete Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
V
THE* SPIRITUALIST.
Dae;. 3, 1875,
C{r«e Spmtalisf
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSHalf-a-orown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every ten
words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one word. Displayed
Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Deduced terms for extended periods.
, “ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements, because it circu¬
lates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an advertisement
is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn
up when read, but preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper, to be
addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London ; and orders intended
for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later than by the first post.on the
previous Wednesday morning. All communications for the Literary Department
should be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by a remittance.
“ The Spiritualist" will be posted for one year, post free, to any address within the
United Kingdom on receipt of the'annual subscription of 10s. 10S.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O. City Pub
lishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
“ The Spiritualist ” may be had by post direct from the branch office, of Mr. J.
Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C., by remitting to him the amount
for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To America, Australia, and New
Zealand the postage for each number is one penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two
numbers is 13s., wnich may be remitted by Post-office Order. The cost of a Post
office Order for sums less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries
on the globe and London, is one shilling.
“THE SPIRITUALIST,, NEWSPAPER:
A Record 'of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
IJ^HE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
A Newspaper cpnnected with the movement in the United Kingdom, and is
the recogiiised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-speaking countries
throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of readers on the Continent,
of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more experienced
Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Literature, Art, Science, and
the Peerage. Among those who have published their names in connection with
their communications in its cdlumns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C,E., F.R.S.; Mr. Wil¬
liam Crodkes.'F.R.8., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal'of. Science” (who admits the
reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time expressed no decided
opinion as to their cause); Mr. AlfredR. Wallace,'the Naturalist; Prince Emile
de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess bf Caithness; the Duke of
Leuchtenberg; Mr. H.. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Gwen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isham, Bart.:
Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alex¬
andre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburg); the Baroness. Adelma Vay. (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dun-
phy, Barnster-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C.
Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, MlB. (India) ; Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin
Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr.
James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White
(author of the “ Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully,M.D.; theRev.C. Maurice
Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London"; Mr. S. C. Hall.F.S.A.; Mr. H. D.
Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.,
LL.M.; Mr.C. Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nos worthy; Mr. William Oxley;
Miss Kislingbury,; Miss A Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson, MD
(Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen. <
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, IDs. lOd. To residents
n the United States, 4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which may be paid in to Messrs.
Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded
to “ The Manager, Spikitcalist Newspaper Office. 38, Great Russell-street
London, W.C.”  . 1 .   ' !
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
Committee.
Martin R-. Smith, Esq.
.Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Baroness, Adelma .von Yay. •
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. Jencken, Esq. M.R.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, EsqyM.S.Tel.E.
N. F. Dawe, Esq. ,
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
PririoeuEmile Sayn-Wittgenstein.
Mrs. Horiywped. ,
Alexander Calder,'Esq.
Alexander Tod,, Esq.
Cromwell F.,yarley,.Esq., F.R.S..
James Wason, Esq. .
Epes Sargent, Esq. .
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
James Mylne,~Esq.
Secretary and Treasurer.
Martin B. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr. Wm. H.
Harrison for the excellent journal of, which he is the editor. This journal
has been a credit and. strength to the movement in every respect. It has
been printed in clear type and on good paper, and has been conducted
with ability, caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the present time' the paper has been by no means self-
supporting ; indeed, during the first three years of its existence it entailed
upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss, which he bore single-handed. This
loss was aggravated by the fact that, in order the more completely to
devote his attention to the Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison voluntarily
relinquished a considerable portion (estimated, upon reliable information,
at an average of not less than £200 per annum) of the income which he
was deriving front litefiary work t>H the Engineer newspaper and other
journals. Mr. Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the
past eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week to a
practical "observation of spiritual phenomena at seances. By his
unwearied, and intelligent observation he has been enabled to collect
a mass of reliable information as to the facts and principles of Spiritualism,
which fits him in the highest degree to be the editor of a newspaper
devoted to the religious and scientific aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper, which was in¬
augurated the year after the appearance of the Spiritualist, has been
annually subsidized by large subscriptions, which its editor, Mr. Burns,
has always called for as justly due to his exertions. Whilst we fully ac¬
knowledge the services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism,
we would call attention to the fact that no appeal to the public for help has
ever, except upon one occasion, and that fora special purpose, appeared’ih
the pages of, the Spiritualist for six years. The work was done, and the
whole expense borne for three of those years by Mr. Harrison alone;
during the last three years an annual sum of about two hundred pounds
has been privately subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless,
greatly relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but this in
no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrison has for years cheerfully sub¬
mitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to supply to the movement a
paper in many, if not in all, respects worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion that it is not
to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary loss should be borne
alone by Mr. Harrison.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would doubtless
have been forthcoming, as they have been for some years past in
answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since its establishment—but he
has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in addition to the existing
Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall take the form of a testimonial
to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is hoped, may to some extent, relieve him
from the heavy saeriflees which he has made in money, time, and work in
the interests of Spiritualism.
All subscriptions to this fund will be payable on the 1st January, 1876.
Friends desiring to contribute are requested to send in their names to
Martin R. Smith, Esq., care of Miss'Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street,'
London, W.O.
List of Subscriptions to November 15th,
Mr. Martin R. Smith  
Mr. Charles Blackburn  
Mr. J.N. T. Martheze   
Mr. James Mylne  
Mr. Alexander Calder 
A Friend 
Mr. Alexander Tod  
Comte de.Bullct 
Mr. N. F. Dawe 
Sir Charles Isham, Bart 
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein
F. S. A.........    ;  
Mr. C. F. Yarley, F.R.S  
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D.  
Mrs. Louisa Lowe 
Mr. Charles Massey' 
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald  
Signor Damian i    
Mrs. Honywood     
Mr. Morell Theobald    
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S 
Mr. S. Chinnery........!.....’ 
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D....,
“ Ennesfallen     
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory 
, Mr. Epes Sargent 
Dr. Baikie  !  
Miss Douglas  *   
M. H. o;..... .< 
Mr. Keningale Cook 
Mr. Geo. King    
Mr. F. A. Blnney  
Mr. J. Coates    
Mrs. Maltby   
Mrs. Kislingbury 
Mr. B. W. Pycock    
Mr. B. Coleman  
Mr. R. Fitton    
Major Menars   
Mr. John Lament     
Mr. Archibald Lamont    
Mr. T. B. Griffin........  
Mr. J. B. Stones   
Mr. J. Regan   
Mrs. Regan     
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese 
Rev. W. Whitear   
Miss Whitear     
Mr. C. E. Williams  
Mr. A. Glendinning  
Mr. H. Withall    
Captain James  
Mr, F. W. Percival   
Mr. Christian Reimers 
Mr. Thos. Hinde ....a  
Mr. Thos. Grant  
Mrs. Geo. Neville    
Mr. G. R. Tapp    ; 
Baroness von Vay    
Dr. W. M. Buchanan.  ....);
Miss E. D. Ponder   
A Subscriber     JjK,
Amicus   
Mr. A. C. Swinton.....   
Mr. Geo. Lee  
Mr. W. E. Bassett   
Mr. T. H. Edmands  
Mr. J. S. Crisp  
Miss F. J. Theobald 
Mr. St. George Stock  :......
Mr Geo Blyton   
J. F. 0  *  
Mr. Algernon Joy    
Miss Kislingbury      
£50 0 0
50 0 0
50 0 0
40 0 0
20 0 0
20 0 0
20 0 0
20 0 0
15 0 0
10 0 0
6 0 0
5 5 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
3 3 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
1 11 6
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
1 10
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
110
1 1,0
110
110
10 0
1 0 0
10 0
10 0
10. 0
i o o:
0 10 6
0 10 6
0 10 6
0 10 0
0 10 0,
l 0 10 0
|0 10 0
0 10 0
0 5 0
0 5 0
Printed for the Proprietor by, Beveridge & Co., at the'lfolborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the'Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E, W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.O.
