A RECORD OF THE PROQI\E£j3 OF THE £CIEJ\(CE AND ETHIC? Of gPI^ITUAX-IjSM
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 62.—(Yol. in.—No. 23.) LONDON: OCTOBER 15, 1873.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
WEEKLY PUBLICATION OF “THE
SPIRITUALIST.”
The Weekly Publication of The Spiritualist
will begin early next month (November), and the
exact date will be fixed in the next issue. When
weekly publication begins, the price of The Spirit¬
ualist will be reduced to Threepence.
OTontentg.
Spirit Teachings. No. 1       354
Canon Kingsley’s Ideas of Spiritualism ... ... ...    ... 356
The Angel ... ... ... ...      .357
Mr. Cornelius Varley       358
Weekly Publication of the Spiritualist     359
Arrival of M. Aksakof in England  ...   359
Spiritualism in Dalston   390
The Go wer-street Meetings:—The Photographing of Spirits; A Minis¬
ter’s Experiences in Spiritualism; Mr. Enmore Jones’s Expe¬
riences; Mr. Hooker’s Experiences in Spiritualism; Questions
Answered by the Lecturer...      361
The “ Spiritual Church’’  ;    ... 363
A Trance Lecture... ,      363
Misstatements Corrected ...         365
Poetry:—Devotion and New Bonnets  365
Correspondence:—Dr. M'Leod’s “Logic of the Spirit;” Superstitions
of the Koords   ...   ... 365
Paragraphs:—The National Association of Spiritualists, 357; Spiritual
Impressions, 358; The Dalston Association, 366; The late Mr.
Edmiston, 366; Trade Interests ...     366
Answers to Correspondents ...      366
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fbitz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Maeshall & Co.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. See.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
• MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, RusseU-square. Private Seances attended.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRV, 96, Rtjssell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the .world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN.
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
'3.- The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. TheNaturaland the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mysteiy.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and not
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury.
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer.' Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. {Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 6s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and, Treasurer.
354
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1873.
C'lp Spintalisf Httospapr.
CHARGrE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually tom up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.O. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in theprovinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W.' Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. T.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383. Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Eussell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. I.
Question asked as to the present efforts made by spifits
to bring home knowledge of Spiritual truth.
Special efforts are being made now to spread a know¬
ledge of progressive truth: efforts by the messengers of
God, which are resisted, now as ever, by the hosts of
the adversaries. The history of the world has been the
story of the struggle between the evil and (he good;
between God and goodness on the one side, and ignor¬
ance, vice, and evil, spiritual, mental, and corporeal on
the other side. Watchful as the guardians are, evil
saps the citadel, andiinds a home within. Then comes
the struggle, bitterer and fiercer in proportion as the
crisis draws near. So it is that at certain times, of
which this is one, extraordinary efforts are made. The
army of the messengers of God is massed in greater force:
men are influenced: knowledge is spread : and the end
draws nigh. Fear for the deserters, the half-hearted,
the temporisers, the merely curious. Fear for them: but
fear not for the cause of God’s truth.
Yes. But how are many doubting souls to know what
is God's truth ? Many look anxiously but cannot find.
* In the Spiritualist of August 15th, an account was printed of some
remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas House, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their personal identity, and that the extracts from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium, free, to. a large extent at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts: consequently, the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable.—ED.
None anxiously look who do not find in the end,
though they may have long to wait—yes, even till they
reach a higher sphere of being. God tries all: and to
those only who are fitted is advanced knowledge granted.
The preparation must be complete before the step is
gained. This is an unalterable law. Fitness precedes
progression. Patience is required.
Yes. The obstacles from internal dissension, from the
impossibility of bringing home evidence to many, from
prejudice, from many other causes, seem almost in¬
vincible.
—To you. Why interfere with that which is God’s
work ? Obstacles ! Ye know not wbat they are com¬
pared with what we have had to endure in times past.
Had ye lived on earth in the later days of Rome’s im¬
perial sway, when everything spiritual had fled in
horror from a realm steeped in debauchery, sensuality,
and all that is base and bad, ye would have known then
what the banded powers of darkness can effect. The
coldness was the coldness of despair: the darkness was
tbe gloom of the sepulchre. The body, the body was
all: and the guardians fled in dismay from a scene on
which they could not gaze, and whose pangs they could
not alleviate. Faithlessness there was indeed, and worse.
The world scorned us and our efforts, laughed at all
virtue, derided the Supreme, mocked at immortality,
and lived but to eat and drink and wallow in the mire—
the degraded, down-stricken animals that they had made
themselves. Ah yes ! say not that evil is invincible
when the power of God and of His Spirits has prevailed
to cleanse even such a sink as that.
We are impatient. But the world so sadly needs such
teaching as you give: so directly needs assurance of the
future.
God is giving it far more than you think. In all
parts are springing up centres from which the truth of
God is being poured into longing hearts, and permeating
thinking minds. There must be many to whom the
Gospel given of old is satisfying yet, and who are not
receptive of further truth. With these we meddle not.
But many there are who have learned what the past
can teach, and who are thirsting for further knowledge.
To these it is given in such measure as the Most High
sees fit. And from them it flows to others, and the
glorious tidings spread until the day comes when we
shall be called on to proclaim them from the mountain
top ! and lo ! God’s hidden ones shall start up from the
lowly places of the earth to bear witness to that which
they have seen and known: and the little rills that
man has heeded not shall coalesce, and the river of
God’s truth, omnipotent in its energy, shall flood the
earth, and sweep away, in its resistless course, the ignor¬
ance and unbelief, and folly and sin which now dismay
and perplex you.
This New Bevelation of which you speak: is it con¬
trary to the Old ? Many are exercised on that point.
Revelation is from God: and that which He has
revealed at one time cannot contradict that which He
has revealed at another, seeing that each is, in its kind,
a revealing of truth, but of truth revealed in proportion
to man’s necessities, and in accordance with his capaci¬
ties. That which seems contradictory is not in the
Word of God, but in the mind of man. Man was not
content with the simple message. He has adulterated
it with his glosses, overlaid it with his deductions and
speculations. And so, as years go by, it comes to pass
that what came from God is in no sense what it was.
It has become contradictory, impure, and earthy. When
THE SPIRITUALIST.
355
Oct. 15, 1873.
a further revelation comes, instead of fitting in reason¬
ably, it becomes necessary to clear away much of the
superstition that has been built on the old foundations ;
and the work of destruction must precede the work of
addition. The Revelations are not contradictory; but
it is necessary to destroy man’s rubbish before God’s
truth can be revealed. Man must judge according to
the light of reason that is in him. That is the ulti¬
mate standard, and the progressive soul will receive
what the ignorant or prejudiced will reject. God’s truth
is forced on none. So for a time, during the previous
processes, this must be a special revelation to a special
people. It has ever been so. Did Moses obtain uni¬
versal acceptance even amongst his own people ? Did
any of the seers ? Did Jesus even ? Did Paul ? Did
any reformer in any age, amongst any people ? God
changes not. He offers, but He does not force accept¬
ance. He offers, and they who are prepared receive
the message. The ignorant and unfit reject it. It must
bp so: and the dissensions and differences which you
deplore are but for the sifting of the false from the true.
They spring from unworthy causes, and are impelled
by malignant spirits. You must expect annoyance
too from the banded powers of evil. But cast your
eyes beyond the present. Look to the far future, and
be of good courage.
Touching Spirit-Guides. How are they appointed ?
Spirit-guides are not always attracted to those whom
they direct, though this is usually the case. Sometimes
they are selected for their own fitness. They are
naturally apt to teach. Sometimes they are charged
with a special commission. Sometimes they are picked
because they are able to supply what is wanting in the
characters which they train. Sometimes they them¬
selves select a character which they wish to mould.
This is a great pleasure to the higher spirits. Some¬
times they desire, for their own spiritual progress to be
attached to a soul, the training of which is irksome and
difficult. They toil upward along with the soul. Some¬
times they are attracted by pure affinity, or by the
remains of earth-love. Yery frequently, when there is
no special mission for the soul, the guides are changed
as the soul progresses.
Who are the Spirits who return to earth ? Of what
class ?
Principally those who are nearest to the earth,in the
three lower spheres or states of being. They converse
most readily with you. Of the higher spirits those who
are able to return are they who have what is analogous
to mediumistic power on earth. We cannot tell you
more than that we higher spirits find it very difficult to
get a medium through whom we can communicate.
Many spirits would gladly converse, but for the want of
a suitable medium, and from their unwillingness to pro¬
long their research for one, they will not risk the waste
of time. Hence, too, communications vary much at
times. Communications which you discover to be false
are not always wilfully so. As time goes on we shall
know more of the conditions which affect communica¬
tion.
You have spoken of adversaries. Who are they ?
The antagonistic spirits who range themselves against
our mission; who strive to mar its progress by counter¬
feiting our influence and work, and by setting men and
other spirits against us and it. These are spirits who
have chosen the evil, have put aside promptings and in¬
fluences of good, and have banded themselves under the
leadership of intelligence still more evil to malign us
and to hamper our work. Such are powerful for evil,
and their activity shows itself in evil passions, in imitat¬
ing our work, and so gaining influence over the deluded,
and most of all, in presenting to enquiring souls that
which is mean and base, where we would tenderly lead
to the noble and refined. They are the foes of God and
man; enemies of goodness; ministers of evil. Against
them we wage perpetual war. We have but now re¬
turned from a great council of the angels and spirits of
the blessed, wherein we have taken counsel and offered
up solemn adoration to the Supreme. With one accord
our voices swelled in an anthem of praise, and so we
received the efflux of Divine aid, which shall support
us in the conflict.
It is very startling to hear of such a powerful organisa¬
tion of evil.
AlasJ alas ! most sad is the abandonment of good
and choice of evil. You wonder that so many evil
spirits obstruct. Friend, it is even so, and it is not
astonishing. As the soul lives in the earth life, so
does it go to the spheres. Its tastes, its predilections,
its habits, its antipathies, they are with it still. It is
not changed save in the accident of being freed from the
body. The soul that on earth has been low in taste,
and impure in habit does not change its nature by pass¬
ing from the earth sphere; any more than the soul that
has been truthful, pure, and progressive, becomes base
and bad by death. Wonderful that you do not recognise
this truth! You would not fancy a pure and upright
soul degenerating after it has passed from your gaze.
Yet ye fable a purification of that which has become
by habit impure and unholy, hating God and goodness,
and choosing sensuality and sin. The one is no more
possible than the other. The soul’s character has been
a daily, hourly growth. It has not been an overlaying
of the soul with that which can be thrown off. Bather
it has been a weaving into the nature of the spirit that
which becomes part of itself, identified with its nature,
inseparable from its character. It is no more possible
that that character should be undone, save by the slow
process of obliteration, than that the woven fabric
should be rudely cut and the threads remain intact. Hay,
more. The soul has cultivated habits that have become
so engrained as to be essential parts of its individuality.
The spirit that has yielded to the lusts of a sensual body
becomes in the end their slave. It would not be happy
in the midst of purity and refinement. It would sigh
for its old haunts and habits. They are of its essence.
So you see that the legions of the adversaries are simply
the masses of unprogressed, undeveloped spirits, who
have banded together from affinity against all that is
pure and good. They can only progress by penitence,
through the instruction of higher intelligences, and by
gradual and laborious undoing of sin and sinful habit.
There must be many of such, and they are the adver¬
saries.
Have they a Chief I a Devil I
Chiefs many, who govern; but not such a Devil as
theologians have feigned. Spirits, good and bad alike,
are subject to the rule of commanding intelligences.
Can you give any information as to spirits communi¬
cating through a circle: the means: the difficulties, and
the like ?
It is not easy for us to explain much that to you
seems strange and mysterious. Many things, indeed,
are strange and unknown to us. There is in controlling
spirits a sort of will power, or vital force, which enables
them to control the elemental forces which are evolved
356
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1873.
from the circle. A circle is composed of different
organisms, each with its own aura, each with its own
positive or negative condition : each giving off a dif¬
ferent influence. The aura—call it what you please—
of the medium is one which amalgamates with and
hinds the rest together, and enables us to use the
influences. Consequently no circle without a medium
is of use, though all the elements may be there. These
are the forces. Now the spirits are as ye are. Some
are born to command among you: some to obey: some
are passive, others active agents in your world. So
with us. We are intelligences of varying degrees of
power and capacity and development: of varying mea¬
sure of influential and impressive power. So we have
varying work proportioned to our varying powers.
Some command : others yield obedience. Some preside
over sections of the work, others work under their
direction. Each circle is to spirit gaze a centre of
light, visible from afar, frequented by crowds who fain
would talk with the denizens of earth. Some of these
spirits are powerful in their ability to use the elements.
They are, in truth, more powerful than highly-developed
spirits. In proportion as we progress we become less
able to wield the forces, and resort more to mental
impression and distinct intellectual guidance and direc¬
tion. It is the grosser spirits who most readily com¬
municate. They are not evil in intent, but ignorant
and undeveloped. They seize greedily all chances, and
are the authors of false or foolish messages : erring
partly through ignorance, partly through folly. They
operate most banefully when obstinate tempers and
disturbed mental conditions aid them. Communications
so received are not trustworthy.
All circles are, as we have said, centres of light, and
are watched by those spirits who regularly attend them,
and guarded as the watch-fires of an army in danger of
attack. Each medium is visible to spirit gaze; and
spirits who have lately passed .from you to us eagerly
watch for means of establishing relations with such.
And even though an intelligence may be able to speak
once, having seized a favourable opportunity, it may
find, when it tries again, that the chance is gone. It
knows not the conditions which favoured it, and they
cannot be reproduced. So it watches and waits through
long, long, weary times, waiting for an opportunity.
It learns by degrees that at certain seasons it can come
near and speak. Or more frequently it finds that it is
not on a harmonious mental plane with the medium;
and so it departs in quest of other means: or its guides
instruct it, and withdraw it to the spheres, or furnish it
with an opportunity elsewhere. No spirit can become
attached to a medium unless mentally it be on a har¬
monious plane with that medium. Reiterated relations
are impossible otherwise.
CANON KINGSLEY’S IDEAS OF SPIRITUALISM.
At the opening of the winter session of the Working
Men’s College, in Great Ormond-street, Canon Kingsley
is reported to have said, in descanting on what he called
4 the apotheosis of hysteria,” that “ it ran through every
form of mind down to the persons who believed they
could make the spirits of the dead answer them by
rapping on a table.” One would expect a minister of
religion to be scrupulous as to the truth of what he seeks
to impress on the minds of his hearers, instead of
resorting to such misrepresentations as the above. Mr.
Kingsley may be sufficiently ignorant of Spiritualism
—though in preaching against it he ought not—to
imagine that Spiritualists believe that the spirits of the
dead can be made to rap; but he cannot be ignorant of
the fact that, instead of belief in communication with
the spirits of the departed existing only in the lowest
minds, it is, on the contrary, held by very many persons
of superior intelligence and education, and by some
men of eminence in science. Mr. Kingsley labours
under the old difficulty—the difficulty of opening the
mind to new ideas bearing no relation to our actual
knowledge or vitiated fancies. Bacon comments on
this impediment to progress. If, for instance, he
says, before the discovery of the compass, and before
that of silk thread, any one had predicted that an
instrument would be invented by which the quarters
and points of the heavens could be exactly taken and
distinguished; that a material far surpassing in beauty
anything then known would be discovered, people would
have began to conjecture means superior to, but of the
same nature as those then known, and would have re¬
jected as preposterous the idea of a metallic substance
which should agree in motion with the celestial bodies,
and the idea of a thread spun by a small worm, which
should afford copiously rich material for dress and furni¬
ture.
In like spirit in the present day is communication by
means of raps with the unseen world ridiculed, the
idea being that were spiritual beings to descend on
earth, it would be in grand and glorious style. Some
would, doubtless, expect to see them with wings,
crowns, and harps. On this point the words of the
late Mr. Robert Chambers in his introduction to Inci¬
dents in my Life,by Mr. D. D. Home, are worth listening
to. He says :—
“ There remains a great stumbling block to many, in
the manner in which the communications are most fre¬
quently made. It seems below the dignity of a disem¬
bodied spirit to announce itself and speak by little pul¬
satory noises on a table or wainscoat. It might, how¬
ever, be asked'if it be not a mere prejudice which leads
us to expect that the spirit, on being disembodied,
suddenly, and of necessity, experiences a great exalta¬
tion. Take the bulk of mankind as they are, and can
we really say that there is anything derogatory to them
in the supposition that, in any circumstances, they
would talk by noise-signals? We must, moreover,
remember that we know nothing of the conditions under
which spirits can communicate. This may be the most
readily available mode-in most instances. Beyond
doubt, in certain circumstances of difficulty, the most
exalted of living persons might be glad to resort to such
a mode of telegraphy. In 1823, Signor Andryane, the
agent of an Italian conspiracy against Austria, was
thrown into the prisons of the police at Milan. He tells
us, in his very interesting memoirs, how, being desirous
of communicating with the inmate of an adjoining cell,
he tapped gently on the wall, and after some time had his
signal answered. ‘ One, two, three—a pause, a, b, c,
—it was c. Still listening,—one, two, three, four,—
eight blows,—it was h; c. h. Slowly, but distinctly,
nine blows were given; this must mean the letter i,
&c.’ After some difficulties, these two unfortunates
succeeded in forming a system of communication, in the
highest degree useful and consolatory to them, by raps
on the wall, expressive of letters of the Italian alphabet
—being precisely the mode of communication so largely
(though not exclusively) adopted by the spirits—the
favourite subject of ridicule to those who are so unfor-
Oct. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
357
tunate as to take only a superficial view of this subject,
or so unfair as to select what, in their ignorance, they
consider as the weakest point. If the disembodied find
a sort of wall interposed between them and the living
world with which they desire to communicate, what
can he more natural than to resort to the expedient
which was embraced in analogous circumstances by
these two living prisoners ? Short of the use of actual
language written or spoken, what better possible mode
of communication can be suggested?”
We are, indeed, as Mr. Kingsley says in regard to
religion, “ on the eve of a battle between reason and
unreason; ” but reason will never conquer until armed
by a deeper science than rationalists yet know of, nor,
in Mr. Kingsley’s own words, until people “ train them¬
selves in the habit of thought which would make them
face the facts to which evidence pointed, whether
pleasing to them or not.” J. H. D.
THE ANG-EL.*
BY HANS CHRISTIAN ANDERSEN. -
Whenever a good child dies, an angel from heaven
comes down to earth and takes the dead child in his
arms, spreads out his great white wings, and flies away
over all the places the child has loved, and picks quite
a handful of flowers, which he carries up to the
Almighty, that they may bloom in heaven more brightly
than on earth. And the Father presses all the flowers
to His heart; but He kisses the flower that pleases
Him best, and the flower is then endowed with a voice,
and can join in the great chorus of praise !
<f See ”—this is what an angel said, as he carried a
dead child up to heaven, and the child heard, as if in
a dream, and they went on over the regions of‘ the
home where the little child had played, and they came
through gardens with beautiful flowers—“ which of
these_shall we take with us to plant in heaven ? ” asked
the angel.
How there stood near them a slender, beautiful rose¬
bush ; but a wicked hand had broken the stem, so that
all the branches, covered with half-opened buds, were
hanging around, quite withered.
“The poor rose-bush!” said the child. “Take it, that
it may bloom up yonder.”
And the angel took it, and kissed the child, and the
little one half opened his eyes. They plucked some of
the rich flowers, but also took with them the despised
buttercup and the wild pansy.
“ Now we have flowers,” said the child.
And the angel nodded, but he did not yet fly upwards
to heaven. It was night, and quite silent. They re¬
mained in the great city; they floated about there in a
small street, where lay whole heaps of straw, ashes,
and sweepings; for it had been removal-day. There
lay fragments of plates, bits of plaster, rags, and old
hats, and all this did not look well. And the angel
pointed amid all this confusion to a few fragments of a
flower-pot, and to a lump of earth which had fallen
out, and which was kept together by the roots of a
great dried field flower, which was of no use, and had
therefore been thrown out into the street.
“We will take that with us,” said the angel. “ I
will tell you why as we fly onward.”
“ Down yonder in the narrow lane, in the low cellar,
lived a poor sick boy ; from his childhood he had been
* From Andersen’s Household Stories. Eoutledge and Sons. 1872.
bedridden. When he was at his best he could go up
and down the room for a few times, leaning on crutches;
that was the utmost he could do. For a few days in
summer the sunbeams would penetrate for a few hours
to the ground of the cellar, and when the poor boy sat
there, and the sun shone on him, and he looked at the
red blood in his three fingers as he held them up before
his face, he would say, ‘ Yes, to-day he has been out! ?
He knew the forest with its beautiful vernal green only
from the fact that the neighbour’s son brought him the
first green branch of a beech tree, and he held that up
over his head, and dreamed he was in the beech wood,
where the sun shone and the birds sang. On a spring
day the neighbour’s boy also brought him field-flowers,
and among these was, by chance, one to which the root
was hanging, and so it was planted in a flower-pot, and
placed by the bed, close to the window. And the flower
had been planted by a fortunate hand, ;and it grew,
threw out new shoots, and bore flowers every year. It
became as a splendid flower-garden to the sickly boy—
his little treasure here on earth. He watered it, and
tended it, and took care that it had the benefit of every
ray of sunlight, down to the last that struggled in
through the narrow window ; and the flower itself was
woven intohis dreams, for it grew for him, and gladdened
his eyes, and spread its fragrance about him ; and to¬
wards it he turned in death, when the Father called
him. He has now been with the Almighty for a year;
for a year the flower has stood forgotten in the window,
and is withered; and thus, at the removal it has been
thrown out into the dust of the street. And this is the
flower, the poor withered flower, which we have taken
into our nosegay; for this flower has given more joy than
the richest flower in the Queen’s garden ! ”
“ But how do you know all this ? ” asked the child
which the angel was carrying to heaven.
“ I know it,” said the angel, “ for I myself was that
little boy who walked on crutches! I know my flower
well! ”
And the child opened his eyes and looked into the
glorious happy face of the angel; and at the same mo¬
ment they entered the regions where there is peace and
joy. And the Father passed the dead child to His
bosom, and then it received wings like the angel, and
flew hand in hand with him. And the Almighty pressed
all the flowers to His heart, but He kissed the dry,
withered field flower, and it received a voice and sang
with all the angels hovering around—some near, and
some in wider circles, and some in infinite distance, but
all equally happy.' And they all sang, little and great,
the good, happy child, and the poor field flower that
had lain there withered, thrown among the dust, in the
rubbish of the removal day, in the narrow dark lane.
Dr. Hugh McLeod will give a public address in connec-
nection with the St. John’s Association of Spiritualists, on
Sunday evening next, at Goswell Hall, 86, Goswell-road. His
subject will be “ The Science of Spiritualism,” and jt will be
a continuation of the lecture on the same subject, which he
recently delivered before the Dalston Association.
The National Association of Spiritualists.—Mr. T.
Everitt informs us that the second meeting of the Council of
the National Association will be held next Monday, when
office bearers will be appointed, rules drawn up, the number
of members of the Council increased, and president, vice-
presidents, and other officers appointed. The first meeting,
of the Council was held at Liverpool, after the close of the
Conference there. Many of the leading and most active
Spiritualists in London feel a warm interest in the Asso¬
ciation, and the useful work which it will undertake.
358
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1873,
MR. CORNELIUS YARLEY.
Mr. Cornelius Varley, the father of Mr. Cromwell
Fleetwood Varley, the Atlantic Cable electrician who has
done so much to promote the interests of modern Spiritual¬
ism, passed to spirit life on the 2nd of October, aged 91 years
10 months. He was well known in the scientific world, and
even at his advanced age attended the meetings of the Royal
Institution and other learned societies with considerable
regularity last winter, where he was a kind of connecting
link between the men of science of to-day and those of a past
generation who had gone to their rest before him.
He was born on the 21st of November, 1781, and was one
of a family of five. His elder brother was John Varley, best
known as the father of water-colour painting, and his younger
sister was married to the elder Mulready. His mother’s
maiden name was Fleetwood, and she was a direct descendant
from General Fleetwood, who married Oliver Cromwell’s
daughter. He lost his father when he was ten years of age,
and then his uncle, Samuel Yarley, took charge of him, and
taught him mechanics, optics, and chemistry. During the
ten years he was with his uncle he worked at the manufac¬
ture of watch escaoements, air-pumps, electrifying machines,
telescopes, microscopes, and other kinds of philosophical
apparatus. In 1794 his uncle and himself began a series of
chemical experiments ; and as they wanted a large room for
the purpose, they took the celebrated Hatton House, which
was vacant because it had the reputation of being haunted.
Here they carried on their experiments, and founded a chemi¬
cal and philosophical society. One day when his uncle was
lecturing, and Cornelius Yarley making the oxygen in another
room, the retort exploded, and smothered him with black
oxide of manganese, making him as black as a sweep. How¬
ever, he carried in the gas for which his uncle was waiting,
and from his appearance gained the name of “ Varley’s devil,”
a name by which he was known to some of the older members
of the Royal Institution, when he was eighty years of age.
They devised and constructed the first apparatus for charging
water with carbonic acid under pressure, thus originating
the manufacture of soda water. In Hatton House they also
constructed a great electrical machine, with a conductor
twelve feet long, with which they carried on some interesting
experiments.
They devised the method of polishing lenses upon a mix¬
ture of beeswax and oxide of iron, the method almost
universally employed by opticians at the present day. Cor¬
nelius Yarley made several improvements in microscopes and
lenses, he also made the first diamond microscopic lens, and
exhibited it at one of the meetings of the Royal Institution.
In the year 1800 he joined his elder brother, John Yarley,
who taught him to draw from nature,.and the Earl of Essex
introduced him to his first pupils. He spent much of his
time sketching in North Wales and Ireland, and he made
atmospheric changes a matter of scientific study, contributing
papers on the subject to the Philosophical Magazirie.
In 1808 he and seven others, among whom was Turner, the
painter, formed a sketching society, to meet at each other’s
houses. In 1809 he invented his “ graphic telescope,” an
ingenious and very useful instrument. The Coliseum in
Regent’s Park was constructed to contain a painting of London
as seen from the top of St. Paul’s. Mr. T. Horner purchased
three graphic telescopes, with which, from the top of St.
Paul’s Cathedral, he traced the panorama of London in true
perspective. In 1804 Mr. Yarley began to execute mechanical
drawings for the Society of Arts, by the aid of his graphic
telescope.
In 1821 he married Miss E. L. Straker, and had issue, seven
sons and three daughters, four sons and three daughters being
now living. In 1822, he was offered the governorship of some
mines in Brazil. It was an honourable and lucrative position,
and of considerable importance to him at the time. A ship
was being fitted out for him, his family, and staff, when he
discovered that slaves were to be employed in the mines ; he
then threw up the appointment in an instant—an act which
was characteristic of him.
During the next ten years he made several improvements in
microscopes, and studied the growth and construction of
Chara Vulgaris, and many papers by him on scientific sub¬
jects will be found in the volumes of the Society of . Arts. He
was an active co-operator with the Royal Institution in its
early days, and delivered the fourth Friday evening lecture
there, on the 24th February, 1826. The first Friday evening
lecture at the Royal Institution was delivered by Mr. Faraday,
Feb. 3rd, 1826. By marriage, he was a family connection of
the late Mr, Faraday.
Mr. Cornelius Yavley was never a professed believer in
Spiritualism, notwithstanding that many warnings of death,
and other events occurred to himself, his wife, and other
members of the family. His own father met with his death
through an accident, which was foreshowed to the mother of
Cornelius in a dream. His uncle, who educated him, was a
clever man who could turn his hand to anything, and who
foretold several things by astrology. John Varley, the artist,
was a great astrologer ; he studied Blake’s visions, and the
visions seen in Lady Blessington’s crystals, but Cornelius
Varley attributed these things to imagination on the part of
Blake, the same influence being seen more or less in drawings
purporting to come from different spirits—a result which
Spiritualists will recognise, as the well known influence of
the medium. The late Cornelius Varley, for a time, also
practised astrology, but when he became a Sandemanian he
thought it wrong to attempt to anticipate the future. He
also objected to Spiritualism on theological grounds, thinking
that mediums were closely allied to the witch of Endor, who
had been condemned by God for having dealings with the
Evil One. Twelve hours before his death, however, he saw
numerous spirits around him, not only in the room, but in the
garden. He then said that “He was going home.” He
afterwards slept for twelve hours, and passed onwards to the
land of the immortals.
He was a truthful man, having resolved at a very early age
never to tell a lie, even to save his life. Always cheerful, his
buoyant spirits charmed all who knew him. In his heart he
bore enmity to no one.
An artist all his life, he was ever at work. His recreation
was watching and forwarding the advance of science and art.
His memory was wonderful, and brilliant to the last. Few
could converse with him without receiving instruction. Ad¬
versity could never depress him, for his faith in the protection
of his Infinite Father was boundless.
His separation from his earthly body was painless. In the
evening, the day after he passed away, his daughter-in-law,
Mrs. T. Yarley, awoke out of a sleep, and saw him sitting
upon a chair in the room, full of life and health. The vision
was gone in an instant, but threw Mrs. Variey into such a
nervous state, that she was much relieved when her husband
reached home, as his presence gave her a feeling of protection.
Neither she nor Mr. T. Varley believe in Spiritualism, and
consider the incident to be a startling effect produced in some
way by the imagination.
Mr. J. M. Peebles and Dr. Dunn sailed from Liverpool
for New York a week ago.
A Psychological Drama, The Last of the Legends, is now
acting at Charing Cross Theatre.
Spiritual Impressions. — The last number of the
Athenceum contains a long biographical article on the late
Mr. Cornelius Yarley, and gives a brief notice of his son, Mr.
Cromwell Yarley, F.R.S. The scientific career of the latter
is well known, but it is not so generally known that being an
expert swimmer he has saved five persons from drowning—
three in the Hampstead Ponds, and two! in the Regent’s Canal.
He has been presented with a testimonial by the Rojral
Humane Society in consequence. He was blown up on board
the Orichet steamer in 1847; being at the time, close to the
centre of the vessel, he was covered in an instant with steam
and red-hot cinders. Being a good swimmer he instantly
rushed to the side and sprang overboard, sustaining no injury
beyond the loss of a suit of clothes, which were torn and
burnt by the explosion. This is the sixth life saved by his
being a good swimmer. Of this circumstance Mr. Yarley
says, “ My aged grandfather, who was very fond of me, but
who had at the time no idea that I was on the Cricket steamer,
nor that any accident had happened to it, had an impression
that I was dead, and sent up to my father’s house to ascer¬
tain if I were alive, so strong was the impression on his
mind. This seems to have been a communication from me
to him, because at the moment the explosion occurred I
dropped my head, rushed forward, and sprang overboard,
thinking I was dying. All was total darkness-in consequence
of the cloud of steam. The heat was intense, and I thought
I should be boiled to death; I was also wondering whether I
should find myself in hell or heaven. It is surprising what a
flood of thoughts passed through my mind in that interval,
which could not have been more than ten seconds ; yet it
seemed to me a long, long while before I felt the water which
I was so anxious to descend into,”
Oct. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
359
WEEKLY PUBLICATION OF “THE SPIRITUALIST.’
The weekly publication of The Spiritualist will begin early
next month, and the exact date will be fixed in our next.
When the weekly publication begins, the price of the paper
will be reduced to threepence.
In taking this great step, a fresh subscription list will be
opened for a very short time, and the supporters of this paper
are asked to rally round it, on the ground that for two or three
years it suffered heavily in consequence of refusing to adopt
and participate in the benefits of the subscription system, and
for that period it competed single-handed, and without com¬
plaint, against heavy public subsidies. Then it unwillingly
partially adopted the current system by opening a temporary
subscription-list to produce a permanent result, and those who
so generously aided, made a great addition to the literature of
Spiritualism during the past year.
Further support is now urged, on the ground also that this
journal has done its best to secure the formation of a National
Association of disinterested and elected workers, to promote
the welfare of Spiritualism, and to watch over the public in¬
terests of Spiritualists by a wise economy in the administration
of public funds.
All subscriptions should be sent to the care of our publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O., and their receipt
will be publicly acknowledged in these pages.
The circulation of this journal has been steadily, though
slowly, increasing from the first. The Spiritualist was called
into existence by the popular voice, at a time when there was
no newspaper in England connected with Spiritualism ; and in
its first number the announcement was made that at a future
time it would be issued weekly.
ARRIVAL OF M. AKSAKOF IN ENGLAND.
M. Alexandre Aksakof, of St. Petersburgh, arrived
in London last week. As he has, perhaps, worked more
faithfully and perseveringly than any other living man
to disseminate a knowledge of Spiritualism in Europe,
the following extract from an article written by him¬
self, and printed in Human Nature, Sept. 1st, 1869,
will be of interest:—
Allow me now to tell you a few words about myself in par¬
ticular. Desiring in my turn to make the Russian public ac¬
quainted with the phenomena of Spiritualism, I had chosen
for that purpose the work of Professor R. Hare, and I had
extracted that which principally related to the experimental
part of the question. But the censor remained inexorable,
and I have been obliged to have my translation printed at
Leipzig, where it remains buried in the warehouse of M.
Wagner, suffering the same fate as a Russian translation of
Swedenborg’s work, Heaven and Hell, which I had printed
some years before. That our learned men are not behind
yours in that contempt for Spiritualism, I can prove to you by
the following example:—We have at the University here a
professor of logic and psychology in the person of M. Vladis-
lavlef, translator into Russian of Kant’s Critique de la Raison
Pure, author of Doctrines Psychologiqv.es, Contemporaines,
&c. Wishing to direct his attention to the psychological
phenomena of Spiritualism, I gave him my Russian transla¬
tion of Hare, some numbers of Human Nature, and the auto¬
biography of Davis in German. Reading this enraged him
so much that his indignation was such he could hardly con¬
tain himself. “ All that,” he replied to me, “ is only detestable
humbug. Davis is an impudent man, Hare an unknown
person. When I read it I believed I was at a tavern.” This
reply deserving immortality, I record it.
How much we are restrained in our literary pursuits, I can
again show you by the following anecdote:—Lately I have
been occupied in writing a critique on Swedenborg’s On the
Doctrine of the Scriptures, whose end was to prove the incon¬
sistency of that doctrine by its own propositions. When
I presented my manuscript to the spiritual reviser he sent me
to the civil reviser, because I do not examine Swedenborg’s
system from an orthodox point of view, but only from the
formal, logical side, like all other philosophical systems; and
when I gave my manuscript to the civil reviser, he sent me to
the spiritual censor, because my work, from the first page to
the last, only treated of Holy Scripture !
Convinced in this way, by my own experience and that of
others, of the impossibility of serving, at least for the present,
the cause of Spiritualism in my own country, I found that in'
awaiting more favourable circumstances I had nothing better
to do than to transport my activity to a foreign land. In 1863
I learnt, for the first time, that a German translation of the
works of A. J. Davis had been undertaken by the celebrated
naturalist and philosopher, Mr. Yon Esenbeck and his asso¬
ciate, Mr. Wittig ; but all my attempts at having more
information about this enterprise were fruitless until 1866j
when I had the pleasure of becoming personally acquainted
with Mr. Wittig, and the displeasure of learning all the diffi¬
culties he met with during the publication of his translations.
I then offered him to become the editor of them, and imme¬
diately we set ourselves to the task. In 1867 appeared The
Reformer, in 1868 The Magic Staff, and, in 1869, The
Principles of Nature and her Divine Revelations, printed by
Mr. Wagner, at Leipsig. More ample details of the History of
the Introduction of the Harmonial Philosophy into Germany, the
reader can find, in the last work of Davis, The Memoranda, in
which he wished to give up a chapter to this subject. It
might appear strange why we have commenced the publica¬
tion of his works with The Reformer, without following the
chronological order, upon which Davis himself particularly
insisted; but it is because nearly all the manuscripts were at
Bremen with Mr. Ruthman, who had begun talking about
their publication, without having, however, caused the enter¬
prise to advance during many years. This is why, without
losing time, we had commenced by that which was ready at
Mr.Wittig’s. It is only lately that we have had the good luck,
not without trouble and expense, to re-enter into the posses¬
sion of all these manuscripts, and henceforth their publication
can be re-established in chronological order. What reception
the German public will give them, the future alone can
decide. We cannot count upon immediate success, and we
shall not deceive ourselves upon this head. The prejudice of
German science against animal magnetism in general, and
Spiritualism in particular, and, on the contrary, its predilec¬
tion for materialistic tendencies, are, in the present time, too
strong for us to expect a serious and impartial critique. On
the other side, silence still less attains our end, and our first
duty is to extricate the public from the ignorance in which
they live as to the real value of modern Spiritualism. To
attain this result the works of Davis appear to me the most
suitable. Germany requires above all a philosophical system,
which should be in a state to present not only an accordance of
facts with a given doctrine, but even with the exigencies of ac¬
tual science. From this point of view the harmonial philosophy
has appeared to me entirely worthy of the attention of
German thinkers. Many persons, knowing, the works of
Davis, have expressed sympathy with the undertaking of their
publication into German. Thus, one of the best known and
most respectable followers of Spiritualism in America, Judge
Edmonds, in a letter that he wrote me in March, 1869, expresses
himself on this matter in the following manner :—“ In one
respect A. J. Davis and I differ : he looks upon Spiritualism
rather as a philosophy, while I regard it as a religion. There¬
fore it is that his works must be more valuable in Germany
than mine can be. With us and our impulsive nature, the re¬
ligious aspect is the most important; in Germany the rationa¬
listic must be.” As a psychological phenomenon, the person
of Davis offers us one of the most remarkable types of the
modern Spiritualistic movement, and under this head de¬
serves to be deeply studied. In the German edition of his
Principle of Nature, I made it ar duty to collect all the proofs
which had come to my own knowledge to establish the mes¬
meric origin of this work, and the further self-development of
Davis, by way of pure intuition, like an incontestable psycho¬
logical fact. While publishing his principal works, I had
intended to cause some little treatise to appear after each
volume, concerning the phenomenal side of Spiritualism, so
that the German public should also take note of the most re¬
markable experiences and studies which have been made in
this direction in America and England,
Since 1869 he has translated and published Hare’s
Experimental Investigations, Crookes’s Experimental
Investigations, extracts from the works of Judge Ed¬
monds, the Report of the Dialectical Society, Owen’s
Debateable Land, and The Physician by Andrew Jack-
son Davis.
Attention is invited to an advertisement, on another
page, relating to a soiree at the Cavendish Rooms, for the
benefit of Mr. Morse, who so well deserves public support.
360
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1873.
SPIRITUALISM IN DALSTON.
IiECTURE ON MESMERISM.
On Thursday evening, September 25th, Mr. H. W. Howell
delivered a lecture on “ Mesmerism” to the Dalston Associa¬
tion of Enquirers into Spiritualism, at their rooms, Navarino-
road, Dalston, London. The president, Mr. Alfred E. Lovell,
occupied the chair, and there was a large attendance of
listeners.
Mr. Howell said that among the objectors to Spiritualism
were some who took that position owing to erroneous concep¬
tions, others believed it to be Satanic, and eternal perdition
to be the result of practising it; these were uncomfortable
people to deal with, and with such a glare before them they
would not readily perceive mesmerism in any other light.
Other opponents supposed that persons were sometimes killed
or driven mad by mesmerism, or that a mesmerist could use
his power over a patient for evil. Some of these ideas were
partly false and partly true, but all were monstrous shadows
cast from truths. Tennyson was right in saying:—
A lie that is half a truth is ever the blackest of lies.
For a lie that is all a lie may be met and fought with outright,
But a lie that is half a truth is a harder matter to fight.
The general popular ignorance of mesmerism was almost as
great as the ignorance of an old lady who, hearing that mes¬
merism had been used to relieve disease of the lungs, said to
him—“ Dear me now, I did not know that mesmerism was
good for the lungs, but many years ago, when I lived at
Thaxted, I used to gather it out of the hedges before the dew
was off it of a morning, and put it in a jug before the fire
with water and loaf-sugar, and drunk a cupful, almost black,
for the rheumatics, and it used to do me a world of good.”
He would endeavour to give his hearers more accurate ideas
of the nature of mesmerism. He then explained the nature
of polar forces, as exhibited in the phenomena of terrestrial
magnetism; he asserted that mesmeric force had a polarity of
its own, that it travelled much more slowly than elefctricity,
and passed through various substances with varying degrees
of rapidity ; he did not show or describe any experiments to
prove these interesting statements. He said that unlike elec¬
tricity or magnetism, it showed no disposition to counteract
the force of gravitation.* He added that metals and crystal¬
line bodies ” exhibited mesmeric force,” and their effects in
relation to human beings were astounding to novices, also
that they sometimes acted upon individuals when their influ¬
ence was not suspected. Although all persons were doubtless
more or less subject to mesmeric influences, on a rough average
perhaps one person out of every four or five, was consciously
sensitive to the influence of mesmeric operators. By simply
approximating a crystal, a metal, or a portion of a living
organism—say a freshly cut stick—to the forehead of a
sensitive, a sensation of heat, cold, or a current of air
is felt, and if the object is moved, say towards the chest,
the sensations follow it. By continuing the experiment
in a particular manner, sleepiness, restlessness, and other
changes in the condition of the body of the sensitive may be
produced, without fancy taking any part in the matter, as
rigid experiment has demonstrated. Crystal vision is simply
a mesmeric effect. He said that mineral rooms, such as those
in the British Museum, were full of influences liable to affect
sensitives.f He knew that nothing could be more easily
demonstrated to a candid investigator than that mesmerism
was, perhaps, the most potent of all known remedial agents
in cases of disease or injury, and that, frequently, maladies
deemed incurable, yielded to its power. Persons who did not
feel any special sensations from mesmeric action could still
derive benefit from mesmerism, if properly applied. Mes¬
merism, contrary to a general opinion, effects more cures in
other than nervous diseases; and it was not true that only the
weak were mesmerically affected. Marvellous benefits were
sometimes received by strong patients, from operators inferior
to them in strength of body and mind. He had seen healthy
parents put to sleep, and sick ones relieved, by feeble chil¬
dren, and athletic men by delicate women. A crystal, or the
human finger, pointed to any particular portion of the brain
of the sensitive, rendered the functions of the part active or
quiescent, according to the way in which it was applied ; and
this was the simple explanation of the whole of the pheno¬
mena of phreno-mesmerism. In what was called “ Electro¬
* Professor Gregory, F.R.S.E., in his book on Animal Magnetism, makes
a statement on this head, directly the reverse of that made by Mr. Howell,
and describes one or more experiments relating to the point.—Ed.
t Some interesting experiments by Mr. Enmore Jones, on the action of
shells and minerals upon clairvoyant sensitives, were described in an early
number of The Spirifmlist.—ED.
biology,” various classes of mesmeric phenomena were con¬
fused. The discs or other objects given to the sensitives to
fix their eyes upon, and the slow music, had no direct influ¬
ence ; they simply withdrew the attention of the sensitive
from surrounding disturbing conditions, and induced the
quiescent state of mind favourable to the reception of mes¬
meric force. The. ” Electro-Biological ” state was known to
mesmerists as the “ sub-mesmerisic” or impressible ” state,
and the impressions under which the sensitives acted might
be regarded as dreams, produced by external impressions
acting upon persons apparently wide awake. Somnambulism
was analogous to this state ; so, too, were a great many cases
of insanity. The subject of biological experiments often
appeared to be wide awake and perfectly rational, except in
regard to the one idea forced upon him. A mesmeric operator
can make some of his subjects do certain things by merely
determinedly willing that they shall do them. There are
also cases of mesmeric sympathy, in which the subject thinks
the same thoughts as the operator, or sees the same object, or
tastes the same substance. Although he retains his own
individuality, he may know what is in the mind of the
operator, or there may be bodily sympathy without mental
sympathy, or vice versa. He had heard, but did not believe,
that a Vermonter had invented a new and cheap plan for
boarding. One of his boarders mesmerised the rest, then
ate a hearty meal, the sensitives being satisfied from sym¬
pathy. Many cases of clairvoyance were nothing more than
a high degree of this sympathetic relationship. True clair¬
voyance, however, was a reality, but of rare occurrence, and
a sensitive might occasionally say most truly,—
I feel an atmosphere of waving light,
Brighter than chrysolite, more pure than flame,
Round me and in me.
An instance of true clairvoyance was exemplified in the
case of a person who sees how many pips are in each uncut
pear or apple, taken successively at random from a heap of
such fruit. Clairvoyance, like other mesmeric states, exists in
various degrees in the same or different individuals, at various
times ; it extends from seeing through closed eyelids and
opaque substances, to the perception of objects at greater dis¬
tances, to the perception of microscopic objects, to the percep¬
tion of the medicinal and other properties of various kinds of
matter, to the perception of past history, to the perception of
future conditions and events.
The more developed the interior law,
The clearer things will brighten, till at last
The whole world shines translucent.
Clairvoyance sometimes manifests itself without the agency of
any human operator. In mirror and crystal seeing, the object
may not merely concentrate the attention of the sensitive, but
the substance itself may sometimes have a mesmeric influence.
One question frequently put to him was, “ Is not Spiritualism
nothing else than mesmerism ? ” He regarded what was
called Spiritualism as a thing which, whether true or false in
its theory, demanded the most thoughtful investigation by all
honest people, more especially by the teachers of science, law,
and religion. It was too important a thing to be slighted—
A strange and shadowy place it seems, but full
Of marvellous beauty, of departed worlds,
Mysterious wonders, and Thessalian magic.
If the assertions of some of its witnesses were true,
Spiritualism stood to humanity in an advanced life, as mes¬
merism did to it in this life. Mesmerism did, indeed, throw
a broad flood of light upon the whole subject. They might
say, “ Yes, but is Spiritualism true 1 ” In his experience of
mesmerism he had found that there was a border-land of
phenomena, in regard to which the mesmerist was left to
depend upon his reason alone, for want of perception like that
of his subject. The echoes from that border-land told of
things and beings in other states of existence, and to all
appearance forces guided by intelligence, beyond the control
of the mesmerist, came from that unseen shore. He did not
know of anything which disproved the origin of these echoes,
but he thought that far more care and time should be devoted
to the subject by investigators, before coming to conclusions
as to possible revelations of other modes of existence.
A knowledge of physics, chemistry, and phrenology, would
form a good basis from which to begin the study of mes¬
merism, and whatever might exist beyond. (Applause.)
Mr. George Robert Tapp inquired under what circumstances
the lecturer had experienced a foreign influence while experi¬
menting ?
Mr. Howell, in reply, gave several illustrations of an intelli¬
gent control superseding and opposed to his own.
Oct. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
361
Mr. Thos. Blyton asked what origin was generally purported
in such cases?
Mr. Howell stated that on questioning the sensitive, the
answer came, “ We are human spirits who have passed from
earth life.”
Mr. G. R. Tapp called attention to the experiences of Mr.
and Mrs. Varley, which had demonstrated to Mr. Varley the
fact of spirits communicating with mortals.
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen put a question which Mr. Howell
pointed out had been answered in his address.
A cordial vote of thanks to' Mr. Howell for his instructive
address was proposed by Mr. Tredwen, seconded by Mr.
George Blyton, who spoke most favourably of Mr. Howell’s
abilities from an extended period of acquaintanceship with
him, and the vote having been put to the meeting by the
president, it was carried with acclamation. A vote of thanks
to the president for occupying the chair closed the meeting.
THE GOWER-STREET MEETINGS.
THE PHOTOGRAPHING OF SPIRITS.
Last Wednesday week, Mr. Enmore Jones delivered a lec¬
ture at Lawson’s Rooms, Gower-street, on Spiritualism, illus¬
trating his remarks by the aid of magic lantern pictures,
projected on the screen by the aid of the oxycalcium light,
under the management of Messrs. Horne and Thornthwaite.
There was a charge for admission, and a large attendance of
listeners. The most interesting pictures shown were a large
series of spirit photographs, taken by Mr. John Beattie, of Clif¬
ton, and a full-length photograph of the spirit Katie, taken while
illuminated) by the magnesium light, and holding the hand of
Dr. J. M. Gully; the likenesses of both Katie and Dr. Gully in
this picture were excellent and clear; the picture was taken
at one of Miss Cook’s seances.
Last Wednesday a lecture was delivered at the same place
by the Rev. F. R. Young, of Swindon. Mr. J. C. Luxmoore,
of the Reform Club, presided. Among the gentlemen on the
platform were Mr. Enmore Jones, Mr. Bielfeld, Mr. T. Everitt,
Mr. T. Shorter, Captain Fawcett, and Mr. W. Carpenter. The
admission was free, and the hall was filled to the doors by a
body of listeners, who seemed to be much interested in the
proceedings.
Mr. Luxmoore said that he had been invited to take the
chair, and had much pleasure in doing so; he was no stranger
there, for in that room he had presided over many confer¬
ences three or four years ago, and had again the pleasure of
seeing before him the faces of many friends who had attended
before. Recently great progress had been made in Spiri¬
tualism. At the time of the previous conferences various
phenomena were common—such as raps, movements of solid
objects, and the seeing and hearing of spirits by favoured
persons. Still, the evidence of a man’s own senses was better
than the testimony of anybody else, and he had been present
recently at many seances where spirits had appeared so as to
be clearly seen and heard by every person present in the room,
under such test conditions as could not be questioned by any
reasonable man or woman of fair intellect. The medium had
been tied with tape by him, and in some cases perhaps a
little cruelly, and the knots sealed with signet rings. When
a medium was willing to be tied, he thought it well to do it so
securely that he or she should have the, benefit of it; and
Spiritualists were so used to the work, and had So studied the
possibilities of tying and untying, that they usually bound
mediums much better than sceptics did. An objection had
been made by the opponents of Spiritualism, that the persons
who attended seances were biologised, and thought they saw
spirits which were not present in reality. But there was an
instrument ‘which was very hard to biologise, and that instru¬
ment was a photographic camera. A spirit had been photo¬
graphed while leaning on his shoulder, and those who read
the Spiritualist had seen an engraving copied from the photo¬
graph. He assured those present that there could be no
question on the subject. If the original photograph were
examined, one-half of his own face would be seen at one side
of the picture. Two ladies searched the medium in a bed¬
room, while he examined the cabinet to see that there was
nothing concealed in it; it was all nonsense his doing so, for
he knew the cabinet and its contents as well as he knew his
own drawing-room, but he carefully examined it for the pur¬
pose of being able to state publicly that he had done so. The
medium was then bound with previously stretched tape, and
the knots were sealed, and under the most absolute test con¬
ditions his friend Mr. Harrison was enabled to photograph
the spirit by the aid of the magnesium light, j The spirit
resembled the medium in some respects, but in size and
height was materially different, and always appeared robed in
white drapery. The facts were all attested in writing by six
or seven respectable witnesses, and every sentence in the
deposition was carefully considered by all the witnesses before '
the document was signed. A little was kept back, that nothing
might be inserted which could not be sworn to ; for instance,
he believed that he saw the medium in the cabinet from foot
to waist, while the photograph of the spirit was being taken,
but it was not very light inside the cabinet. He believed the
proportion of certainty to be twenty to one that he saw the
medium and the spirit at the same time, while the photograph
was being taken, but published nothing about the circum¬
stance for the reason just mentioned. He hoped that he had
not detained the meeting too long in making these introduc¬
tory remarks. (Applause).
Mr. Enmore Jones said that the present was the last of his
series of four meetings at Gower-street. He had not adver¬
tised the meeting, as he wished it to be a quiet one. Next
Wednesday [to-night] there was to be a tea-party for Spiri¬
tualists only, to talk over matters, and from 100 to 150
persons could be accommodated on the occasion. The rela¬
tives of persons living in London were dying right and left,
and Spiritualists had knowledge which they thought would
comfort the survivors; they all ought to be thankful to
the Great Power for the blessing of spirit communion. There
was not a person on the platform who had any money interest
in the movement; they were all losers by it. They intended
to make the facts known in different parts of London in a
business-like way, and meetings would be held in the Gower-
street Rooms regularly, on the first and third Wednesdays in
every month.
' A minister’s experiences in spiritualism.
The Rev. Frederick Rowland Young, of Swindon, then de¬
livered a lecture on “ Ministering Spirits.” He said that he
assumed that he was speaking to some who professed and called
themselves Christians. Those who admitted the authority of
the Scriptures, would admit that the Bible told of the exist¬
ence of ministering spirits. He was not aware that any¬
thing was said in Scripture about the creation of angels, but
much was said about their attributes and employments ; they
were stated to be interested in the welfare of man, for there
was joy among the angels of God over one man who repented.
Angels ministered to Christ, and they bore the spirits of the
departed to the higher world. In all ages, and among all
Christian nations at all times, instances were common of
dying persons seeing angels around them, at the moment
of their departure from earth to heaven. Human spirits
were permitted to return to earth. He not only believed
this, but he knew it with absolute certainty. He knew it;
he did not think it—he did not assume it—he knew it.
He intended that evening to speak only of what he him¬
self had seen and tested. Spirits ministered to him some¬
times by impressions; they suddenly put trains of thoughts
into his head foreign to his own thoughts; he had acted
upon these impressions, and they had never deceived him.
He had been in a room alone, where it was morally and
physically impossible that any human being besides him¬
self could also be present, and a spirit had moved about
in the room and spoken to him. For nine months he was
entranced at prayer time in his own pulpit, and made to
speak in a voice and phraseology not his own ; also to express
ideas quite at variance with his own theological convictions.
(Laughter.) He would give an instance. He happened to be
a Unitarian; and in the trance state he had been made to
address his prayers not to God the Father, bht to the Lord
Jesus Christ, and to end his prayer with the words, “ Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost, for Christ’s sake.” Unitarians would
think one of their preachers out of his mind for uttering those
words in a prayer. While he was entranced in the pulpit he
was unconscious, and did not know what he had been saying.
A member of his family had taken down in shorthand what
he had said in states of entrancement, and the records would
[ fill many volumes. Some of his trance utterances were not
complimentary to himself, but painted him as a most horrible
and repulsive individual; so although he did not wish to be
uncharitable, he hoped that those particular communica¬
tions did not come from particularly good and truthful spirits.
(Laughter.) Unconscious cerebration would not explain the
facts. He had received messages and information quite
foreign to his own knowledge, and had recovered money in
consequence of information so obtained. He had often wit¬
nessed physical manifestations, and the Spiritualists present
at the meeting were in the constant habit of seeing chairs and
362
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Got. 15, 1873.
tables moving about. Only the night before, he was at a
village in Sussex, where a seance was held in the house of a
brother minister whose name he had not permission to men¬
tion. An Independent and Wesleyan minister were present;
also a few friends, and a Scotchman named Scott. The table
not only answered questions intelligently, but with only the
tips of the fingers gently touching it, it ran about the room
like a spaniel dog. Spirit messages were sometimes received
through planchettes and indicators. He had never yet been
deceived by any message received through an indicator. He
had talked with spirits whom he had known in the flesh,, and
of whose personal identity there was no doubt whatever. He
made this statement in the presence of his Maker to whom he
was responsible, and not to his listeners. Some years ago he
was present at a seance at the house of the Rev. J. Page
Hopps, where a refined and educated lady, respected by all
who knew her, was partially entranced, and made to write on
paper with twice the velocity at least that anything could be
written by the swiftest writer in London. On examining the
writing it was found that every word and sentence was written
backwards, so that they had much difficulty in deciphering it.
She said she knew nothing of what she had been writing, and
he believed her. Some years ago he was at the house of Mr.
William Howitt, who then lived at Highgate. He showed
him some geometrical figures, saying that his hand had been
suddenly seized and moved to do the drawings; he could not
draw, and did not understand the diagrams after they were
drawn; so he took them to the late Professor De Morgan,
President of the Mathematical Society of London, who stated
that mathematically and geometrically they were correct,
and that they truthfully represented some most abstruse
geometrical problems. . He asked, “How did Mr. Howitt do
them?” Mr. Howitt replied that “he did not do them; he
knew nothing about them; spirits did them.” Healing
mediumship was another phase of Spiritualism. He (Mr.
Young) had had the healing power for nearly a year, when it
left him as suddenly as it came. Perhaps the foregoing facts |
did not suit some of his listeners, but their disbelief did not
alter the facts. He remembered a narrative how two medical
students smuggled a subject into their room, and while one of
them dissected the body with a knife, the other read the de¬
scription of the parts out of a book. “What is this?” said
the one with the knife, as he laid bare one of the organs of
the body. 1 There’s nothing about it here,” said the one
with tfie book. “ But here it is,” said the one with the knife.
The student with the book replied, “ There’s nothing about it
here. It must be wrong. Cut it away.” (Laughter.) Orthodox
men of science treated Spiritualism in the same way; the
facts were not in their book, so the facts had to be cut away.
Why should not people believe in spirits ? Every Sunday
they professed in their churches to believe in good and evil
spirits, but doubted it all the rest of the week. Thanks to the
merciful Father of all, he believed that wherever there was an
evil agency a good one stood by its side. How sad it was,
whatever the theological belief of a man, to stand by the
edge of the grave, to watch the descent of the coffin, and to
feel, “ There goes all that is dearest to me on earth.” And as
the robed priest stood by, uttering the words “ Earth to earth,”
while the rattling clods descended, had they not felt a great
lump rising in the throat, and a conviction that they were
sufiering the greatest of all possible losses ? Let some person
then prove to them that the departed one still lives—that he
lives and therefore he loves—death is at once robbed of its
terrors, and under the light of the revelations of Spiritualism
men can say, “ 0 death, where is thy sting ? 0 graye, where
is thy victory ?” and one more evidence is added to the teach¬
ing of Christianity that God is not the God of the dead, but
of the living. (Applause.)
ME. ENMOEE. JONES’S EXPEEIENCES.
Mr. Enmore Jones said that Dr. Ferrier had lately proved
by passing a feeble current of electricity through the brain of
a cat, or dog, or other aninial in a given direction, that a
uniform movement of given portions of the limbs of the body
is produced. Thus the current of electricity flowing through
a convolution of the brain of a cat, produces the well-known
“paw” action; and'so with the similar convolution of a
rabbit, a rat, a dog, a monkey. Well, electricity was ethereal
and unseen as it passed through the brain; and those who
know anything about spirit, acknowledge it as ethereal as
electricity, so what the one can do, the spirit might be expected
to be able to do. He doubted not that several in the room had
by the psychic or mesmeric power of the finger on given con¬
volutions or organs of the human brain produced the same
effects. Thus the head is a box of keys, which will play any
kind of mental tune when judiciously handled, and one can
see clearly how ministering spirits can, if they will, influence
the human mind and the limbs of the body. He (Mr. Jones)
was born in Wales, but had been brought up and educated in
Scotland. Many years ago his wife was passing away, and a
few days previously he heard a voice as clear as a bell, saying
in the centre of his head, “ The seventh—the seventh—the
seventh—the seventh.” He accordingly told his servants
that something would happen on the seventh; he also told
his two sons the same, and asked them to make a note of it;
so that there were five witnesses to the prediction having been
made. From the seventh to the day of her death, his wife was
not herself. His children were once all taken ill with the
measles one after the other, and cured most rapidly by means
of a prescription written through his own hand. He did not
understand all the prescription, but the chemist did to whom
it was taken to be made up. None of the children were in
bed with the measles more than three days. Of late he had
been to seiances where he and others had seen spirit hands and
spirit forms. As the father of a large family, the help he
had had from a higher power through spirits had been plain
and distinct. Special providences had often occurred to
him ; also special guidance through a sudden heart appeal to
the God of all Power. He hoped that Christians would lay
hold on Monday of the principles they sang about on Sunday.
The spiritual gifts enjoyed by the early Christians might be
enjoyed by his hearers. What were those gifts ? Conversing
with angels ; seeing “ ghosts,” obtaining help through them,
as effective as any help people had from embodied friends in
whom they had confidence. (Applause.)
ME. HOCKEE’S EXPEEIENCES IX SPIBITTrAXISM.
Mr. Hocker, of St. John’s-wood, said that about four years
ago he first attended a spiritual seance. Of course he knew
all about it before he went, for had not the newspapers ex¬
plained the truth to him ? (Question). He knew that the
seance was to be held in the dark ; but to his great disgust he
found that it took place at eleven o’clock on a bright sun¬
shiny morning. The newspapers had also told him that the
medium got the enquirer to read over the letters of the
alphabet, and tipped the table at the right letters which the
reader unconsciously emphasized. To increase his disgust,
he found that an entire stranger to him was asked to read
over the alphabet, and that the messages contained informa¬
tion about his own family matters, which nobody knew but
himself. Afterwards he described the seance to a friend, a
man in a large way of business in Oxford-street, who said—
“ Who went with you?” “ Jack.” “ Then how do you know
that Jack has not f sold ’ you by going beforehand and telling
the medium much about your affairs?” Of course the easiest
way out of the difficulty was to accept this explanation; but
as it involved belief in the lack of integrity of a faithful and
truthful friend whom he had known for thirty years, he
accepted the more troublesome alternative of working to find
out whether Spiritualism were true or not. (Applause). He
formed a circle, at which his Oxford-street friend, to his own
discomfort, discovered himself to be a medium. Once he was
at a seance with two disbelievers, over one of whom the
medium made mesmeric passes at the instant he was winking
at the other ; but the winking gentleman suddenly passed into
the trance state, and delivered a spirit message from a de¬
parted friend of the other disbeliever. All persons should in¬
vestigate Spiritualism, but not without carefully considering
the consequences—namely, the stones and hisses with which
the great Babel, the world, salutes all who fear not to tell the
truth. (Applause.)
QUESTIONS ANSWEEEB BY THE EECTUEEE.
The Rev. F. R. Young said that he would answer any ques¬
tions bearing upon the subject of his lecture. A piece of
paper had been handed to him containing questions, one only
of which related to his lecture—namely,
Will Mr. Young -present me with some proof of any of his
assertions made here to-night ? If not, why?
Mr. Young said that he came to that public meeting to
make a statement, not to bring a number of witnesses and
documents. He was quite prepared to go into the matter of
evidence another time. Was the question fairly answered ?
(Applause.)
Does Mr. Young believe in the Devil? If so, can he tell us
how to distinguish holy angels from evil spirits ?
Mr. Young said that his personal belief was rather in favour
of the personality of the Devil, but he had had no such clear
proof of the existence of the Devil, as of the existence of
evil spirits, by whom he had often been attacked. How did
Oct. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
363
men distinguish what purported to be revelation from God,
from any other statement or revelation ? How did Chris¬
tians separate the Bible from the other sacred books of the
world ? Of course by the exercise of reason. Sometimes he
had been deceived by evil or neutral spirits, but the exercise
of common sense would do more to keep off evil spirits than
anything else. Mr. Howitt, in his early experiences, found
that evil spirits deceived him over and over again, for the
purpose of disgusting him with Spiritualism, but he knew
them now, and was not deceived by them. If he (Mr.
Young) doubted the morality of the source of any spiritual
phenomenon, he was in the habit of saying—“ 1 ask you in
the name of God, and of the Lord Jesus Christ, do you come
here with good intentions ?” He had often found that this
adjuration put a stop to the phenomena, but if they went on
afterwards, he had always found the messages to be good and
useful. Still, he did not say this was an absolute test; in fact,
God had not furnished men with absolute tests to solve many
a difficult problem. Cdmmon sense enabled men to tell good
from evil spirits in the long run, just as in time they could
distinguish a good from a hypocritical parson, unless they
were suffering from “ parson on the brain.”
Is it derogatory to Christians to attend to messages received
through the tipping of a table rather than through trance ?
Mr. Young said that whether it were derogatory or not de¬
pended on the motive of the seeker ; he did not see anything
derogatory in it.
Are the angels you speak of, the spirits of departed human
beings ?
Mr. Young said that viewed from a theological standpoint,
great difficulties beset the question of the creation of angels.
He thought that there was nothing unphilosophical in sup¬
posing an order of beings between God and man; but the
spirits he had been speaking about that evening were departed
human beings. Christ once said of the blessed—“ They are
as the angels of God ”—which seemed to refer to the latter as
a separate order of beings. This was only his own way of
looking at the question; he did not say that it was the true
one.
The President said that people often remarked—“ Is it not
wonderful that spirits should move tables about ?” Was it won¬
derful that children should have to learn the alphabet before they
could read ? There was a tangible fact in the moving of chairs
and tables, so that the circumstance was really the best means
of beginning to prove that there was something real in Spiri¬
tualism, and if the enquirer afterwards investigated in a philo¬
sophical manner, he was sure to come out eventually as an
intelligent and devoted Spiritualist. All dogma and sec¬
tarianism should be driven from Spiritualism, for one man’s
orthodoxy was another man’s heterodoxy, and the more all
dogmas were kept out of Spiritualism, the better would be the
results.
The proceedings closed with the usual votes of thanks.
THE “SPIRITUAL CHURCH.’,
Spiritualism, whether as a sign of the last day, when
some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing
spirits and doctrines of devils, or, as some say, the great agent
to recall a Sadducean generation to the belief of a future state
or the claims of another world, is certainly in the England of
to-day, in spite of the childish character of its revelations and
the undoubted eccentricity of many of its professors, for good
or bad, an accomplished fact. Last Sunday evening an im¬
mense crowd had assembled in St. George’s Hall, double or
treble that which was ever got together in the same building
on the occasion of any of the lectures of the Christian
Evidence Society. Not even when the chair was taken by a
lord, or the lecturer was the highest and proudest of ecclesias¬
tical dignitaries, was there anything like the gathering
attracted thither by the announcement that an oration was
to. be given, under spirit influence, by Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tap-
pan, inspirational speaker, from the United States, and all
this was the result of very little in the way of advertising, and
may be accepted as a proof of the enormous floating popula¬
tion in London of a Sunday night—a population the chapels
do not get, nor the churches either; but which is to be had,
and taught, and impressed if you go the right way to work.
At this time of year London, especially the West-end, is pro¬
verbially empty ; and yet at St. Geoi’ge’s Hall there was a
dense crowd, and a large number had to stand almost all the
while. It must be noted also that the male element greatly
preponderated, and that the general feeling at the end of the
service was one of approbation and esteem. It may be a silly
public that which met Mrs. Cora Tappan; but it was as well-
dressed and as intelligent-looking as that to be seen inside
any church, and it came there as to a church. The service of
Sunday night claimed to be that of the-Spiritual Church, the
Church of the future—the Church we are almost all of us
looking for—the Church which some of those in these days of
revived medisevalism scarce ever hope to realise while in the
tabernacle of the flesh.—Christian World.
A TRANCE LECTURE.
Last Sunday evening a lecture was delivered by Mrs. Cora
L. Y. Tappan, under spirit influence, at the Royal Music Hall,
High Holborn, London, under the presidency of Mr. Thomas
Slater.
The Rev. F. W. Monck gave out a hymn, written by Alfred
Tennyson, after the singing of which
Mrs. Tappan passed into the trance state, and said: Our
Father and Mother God, Thou infinite source of every bless¬
ing, of all life, of all knowledge, Thou one central spirit of
light, from whom all souls emanate, and who dost illumine
every remotest spirit with thine own radiance. 0 soul of
life, by whatsoever name we call Thee, or wherever on bended
knee the thoughts of mortals praise Thee, we would remember
that Thy love fills every atom of the universe, that Thy
spirit is within every soul, that Thou apeakest to every child
if it will only listen to Thy voice. We would praise Thee,
0 Father, even as the voices of Nature praise Thee. The
spring time flower gives forth in its wondrous way, the utter¬
ance of prayer. The sweet incense from the morning altars
of the earth rises like the songs of happy children. We
would praise Thee as the stream and the ocean praise Thee—
as the mountain in its solemn grandeur, or the deep, dark
caves on the shore ; these praise Thee with a solemnity which
is all their own. The stars in their orbits praise Thee, and
perform their revolutions in obedience to the great law of
love with which Thou hast endowed them ; they march on
and on for ever, held in the circle in which they go by the
law of Thy being. 0, let us small atoms in the great sea of
soul be held in Thy spirit, by the one subtle chain of love
which binds us to Thee. Let us praise Thee for that life
which is beyond death—for that newer and better world, that
larger range of vision, that higher and more glorified state,
where the soul of man, no longer in fetters, basks in the bright
sunlight of Thy truth, and is for ever one with Thy angels.
Let Thy ^ministering spirits bend above Thy children to-night,
let them*know that chain upon chain, and link upon link, is
the endless line outwrought which binds them to the realm
of soul, and that no angel is so high in heaven that he may
not bend to earth, and drop a tear over the sorrowing ones
below. We bring Thee offerings of our souls’ devotions, and
would, indeed, in words of loving-kindness praise Thee for
evermore.
Another hymn was then sung, after which
Mrs. Tappan said, “And there shall be no more death!"
When John, in the Isle of Patmos, beheld the vision of the
New Jerusalem, and of the happy time when the earth should
be free from sickness and pain, among other promises which
the vision foretold, was the one just quoted, that in the New
Jerusalem there should be no more death. To-day, in that
regard, the vision is fulfilled. “ Why, death is in the
world,” you say, “ sin and wickedness abound, crime
flaunts in the face of day, and the world is full of corrup¬
tion.” Aye, but let us see. In the light of ancient science
everything died; matter itself was destructible ; and it was
believed that there would come a time when the world itself
would be consumed. Do not the flowers die in the autumn
time ? Does not everything fade away when the frosts of
winter come ? Is there not death and destruction Jin every
part of the material world ? It is true that fire consumes ;
it is true that at the time of the changes of the seasons all
forms of vegetable life change, and pass, and are forgotten.
It is true that geology testifies that various orders of beings
have sprung into existence and passed away, leaving only the
impress of their existence upon rock and soil ; it is also true
that the proudest nations of the earth have risen, and then
passed away. Yet in the light of modern science we find
that matter is composed of certain atomic particles that are
indestructible. However minute they may be, they cannot
be destroyed ; they only change their relations to each Tither
and pass into other combinations. Geology tells that no form
of life, except in its outward construction, has perished, but
that new life has sprung from the old form. Science tells us
that no fire of any kind can burn up the elemental substances
364
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1873.
of. nature ; that which rises as smoke, falls again ; that’which
goes off as vapour comes down as rain ; and the food we eat
goes off to a large extent as carbonic acid gas, to be absorbed
by other organisms. Only the phases of the manifestations
of matter change, not the matter itself. The gases you throw
off have been many times absorbed by other living organisms,
and no part or portion of nature is lost. The same limestone
which makes the phosphates of the human system may have
been trodden under foot by a proud nation in former ages,
for there is no loss in nature, all her forces are conserved, no
one can tell the beginning. All space is filled with life,
denoting an intelligent purpose, denoting mind. Do your
flowers fade ? Then a hundred germs spring up after winter
passes. Does the animal kingdom perish? Each atom of
life is again restored to some inanimate substance, and new
animals take the place of the old. In place of the monstrous
animals of old, more useful living creatures have sprung up.
It is the same with nations. One dies to be succeeded by
another. By and by there will be a science to prove that the
other planets are inhabited, that like yours they have passed
through changes of organic life, and now have high and
intelligent beings on their surface. In short there is no limit
to scientific truth but that caused by ignorance and supersti¬
tion. Without spiritual aid you can be made aware that
there is no death, but that everything changes. Mind alone
dies, according to the materialist; every other thing is
cared for. Science says that man must die. We know
the body must perish; but if every atom of the body
is safe, what shall become of that intelligence, that mind
which so distinguishes humanity? Science stops just
at the point where she should show that man has higher
powers than the physical; it is a region where the materialist
may not enter without putting the sandals from his feet, and
bowing in reverence before the spirit. The distinctive feature
of mind is consciousness—identity—and if the human mind
is to be swallowed up in a reservoir, then it is not mind, and
you must get another name for it. We will begin at the other
end of creation—mind and spirit alone are positive, eternal,
indestructible. A congregation of atoms may change its
form and pass away, but mind does not change its form, and
does not pass away; it is ancient as God, coeval with His
spirit, brilliant with His breath, living in His life; the soul
of every human being is eternal, and is not the result of
combinations of matter. A German philosopher once said,
“ Oh, there is no such thing as mind ; it is only like a little
effervescence in a bottle of champagne, or like the vapour
which rises and passes away, and is seen no more.” Without
mind as its primal essence there can no more be matter, than
there can be a rose without a rose-tree. All spirits are equally
pure, why, then, have we criminals of all kinds ? The soul
sometimes alights on a stony soil; if it does not alight on
right surroundings, somewhere or other God has provided
means for its unfoldment. It has been demonstated that the
greatest idiots have a germ of consciousness. In Boston Dr.
How has an asylum for idiots, and has brought some to con¬
sciousness who were supposed to be beyond the reach of
human thought; some have been gradually awakened to con¬
sciousness by the aid of music, others by light, others by their
affections. How do you inhabit the temple of the brain ?
Some, we fear, seeing no love and no God ; some, clothing
themselves with the dark mists of envy, hatred, and malice ;
then diseases creep in, and various forms of earthly appetite
obscure the spiritual vision. The spirit requires purging of
its external impurities; it aspires beyond matter, time, and
sense, and, by intuition, claims alliance with Infinite Wisdom.
This intuition has kept spirituality alive in ages of darkness,
aiding the soul to rise above time and sense, to bask in
the consciousness of eternal being. It is by the law of
love that it claims allegiance to the Divine Mind.
When death touches the form, you know that your friend is
not dead ; you feel that the casket is empty, that the bird has
flown. By what law will the materialist account for that
instant change ? He has no answer. You then learn that it
was not the form you loved, but the spirit within which loved
and responded to you, and is still living in the subtle being of
spiritual existence, with a frame all aglow with supernal life.
Oh, when the materialist stands by the grave of the dear one,
he seeks for the subtle law which links him still to the object
of his love ; then the nothingness of that science which
excludes from science all that makes humanity what it is,
comes home to the consciousness of the savan ; he then finds
that in the cold icy temple he has reared about him there is
no life, no mind, no soul, no God. It is revealed to the con¬
sciousness of man that even this link is not broken in the
chain of creation; where material science pauses, and refuses
to go further, there the spirit begins, with ifs wonderful
wealth of lore, its revelations of the past and of the future.
Thought never perishes, but abides for ever ; it builds up the
world immortal, and paves the way to the revealment of
stages of existence of which you have no knowledge.
Spiritualism is a new condition of mind on earth, which
does not revel alone in the material, but lifts itself up to the
things of the spirit. There is no death. The departed child
waits near the "door, waits only for its mother to bid it enter,
and its little feet go pattering among the asphodels in the
bright meadows of the spirit land. This Spiritualism is the
nepenthe which the ancient philosophers sought, to prolong
life for ever; you cast off your bodies like an old garment.
The pathway of this new science is as clear to the spirit as the
names of the constellations are to the astronomer. In the
great realm of the spirit there is no room for death to abide ;
he has gone out with the ignorance, and blindness, and pre¬
judice of the past, and life, ,only life, remains as your
inheritance.
Mrs. Tappan then paused. After a moment’s silence she
delivered the following inspirational poem:—
O beautiful white mother Death,
Thou silent and shadowy soul,
Thou mystical, magical soul,
How soothing and cooling thy breath !
Ere the morning stars sang in their spheres,
Thou didst dwell in the_spirit of things,
Brooding there with thy wonderful wings,
Incubating the germs of the years.
Coeval with Time and with Space,
Thy sisters are Silence and Sleep ;
Three sisters—Death, Silence, and Sleep,
How strange and how still is thy face !
In the marriage of matter to soul,”
Thou wert wedded to young fiery Time,
The now weary and hoary-haired Time,
With him thou hast shared earth’s control.
Ojbeautiful spirit of Death,
Thy brothers are Winter and Night;
Stern Winter and shadowy Night,
They bear thy still image and breath.
Summer buds fall asleep in thy arms,
’Neath the fleefty and soft-footed snow,
The silent, pure, beautiful snow;
And the earth their new life-being warms.
All the world is endowed with thy breath,
Summer splendours and purple of wine
Flow out of this magic of thine,
O beautiful angel of Death I
What wonders in silence we see 1
The lily grows pale in thy sight;
The rose thro’ the long summer night
Sighs its life out in fragrance to thee.
0 beautiful angel of Death,
The beloved are thine, all are thine !
They have drunk the nepenthe divine,
They have felt the full flow of thy breath.
0 ut into thy realm they are gone,
Like the incense that greeteth the morn,
On the wings of thy might they’re up-borne,
As bright birds to thy Paradise flown.
They are folded and safe in thy sight,
Thro’ thy portals they pass from earth’s prison;
From the cold clod of clay they have risen,
To dwell in thy temple of light.
O beautiful Angel of Life,
Germs feel thee and burst into bloom,
Souls see thee and rise from the tomb,
With beauty and loveliness rife.
On earth thou art namfid cold Death,
Dim, dark, dismal, dire, dreadful Death,
In heaven thou art “ Angel of Life.”
We are one with thy spirit, 0 Death ;
We spring to thy arms unafraid,
One with thee are our glad spirits made.
We are born when we drink thy cold breath,—
Oh, Angel of Life, lovely Death.
The concluding hymn was then sung, after which Mrs.
Tappan uttered the following benediction—“ May the peace of
Oct. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
365
the loving spirit of the Heavenly Father and His angels abide
with you, and the life that knows no death bear you on to the
immortal world.”
MISSTATEMENTS CORRECTED.
A leading article of a censorious nature, published in The
Medium newspaper, of Sept. 19th, 1873, says of the reporter
of The Spiritualist:—“ From his earliest essays at criticism
his acridity has been more amusing than painful. His recent
distemper has taken the form of ignoring certain phases of our
existence to the exaggerated extension of others, and recently
he has introduced a new feature into our character—viz., that
of telling lies. He charges us with misstating the number of
persons at the Liverpool Conference for ‘ trade purposes.’
Now, we did not happen to make any misstatement, and we
could not have been above fifty wrong even if we had said
there was no Conference at all. But the ‘ trade purposes ’
fairly puzzle us, and apparently have been such a nut to our
contemporary that he does not even himself attempt to crack
it. This is not the extent of the evil. Following a visit of
our editorial friend, the same distemper has been communi¬
cated to certain parties at Liverpool.” In answer to this, the
number of persons who signed their names in the visitors’
book at the Liverpool Conference was ninety; the total num¬
ber of persons who attended we do not know, hut at the soiree
of the Conference the hall was crowded to the doors, several
hundreds of Spiritualists being present. Our reporter did and
said nothing whatever to anybody at Liverpool to promote ill-
feeling of any kind towards anybody, and somewhat neglected
his duty by not publishing a part of the proceedings, because
it would have tended to be detrimental to The Medium news¬
paper, namely,—When the various votes of thanks were being
proposed at the close of the Conference, the editor of The
Medium rose and spoke of the Conference as a great success;
he added that he therefore proposed a vote of thanks to the
editors of the various Spiritual periodicals, who had contri¬
buted to the successful results by calling public attention to
the forthcoming Conference. There was a moment’s silence, knd
the Conference proceeded with the next business of, the meet¬
ing, nobody seconding the motion of a speaker who proposed a
vote of thanks to himself. Of course the unusual act created
much gossip at Liverpool, but our reporter printed no notice of
the circumstance, because he believed Spiritualism to teach
men to throw a kindly cloak over each other’s errors, rather
than to parade them before the world. The editor of the
Medium, after thus speaking his conviction publicly to several
hundreds of people that the Conference was a success, returned
to London and printed articles describing it as a total failure.
At the close of the leading article in The Medium, now under
notice, the editor says :—“ There are scavengers in every com¬
munity, and why should the Spiritualists not have dealers in
dirt ? ” If he intended this remark for our reporter, as well as
the other persons abused in the article, perhaps independent ob¬
servers will scarcely think it just. Our reporter has never
hitherto spoken either in public or private of the work he has
done for Spiritualism during the last four years, therefore a
statement on the point may not be out of place. There are
three daily newspaper shorthand reporters only in London
who have had a scientific education, consequently the demand
for their services is in excess of the supply, and the average
commercial value of their work is very high. Our reporter
voluntarily withdrew from this work, to report seances and
meetings, four or five evenings per week, for The Spiritualist
newspaper, from which he has never had any salary. To make
up the loss to some extent, he began to do literary and report¬
ing work in the day time, but much of his time in the day has
also been absorbed by Spiritualism, so that during the last four
years his income has been all along reduced to at least one-
half what it was before, and out of the remaining half he has
paid large sums of money in connection with work in Spiri¬
tualism, for when Spiritualists, in 1869, asked from public
platforms for a newspaper, he supplied the want, and promised
a weekly supply of news in the future. These expenses were
further increased, when the Medium newspaper afterwards
came into the field, and introduced the subscription system
into spiritual literature, because through getting enormous sums
of money by incessant requisition, the Medium used them to
undersell all its neighbours, and greatly increase their expenses
by subjecting them to unfair competition, for, as the editor of
the Medium recently printed in a leading article, every paper
he sells for a penny costs three-halfpence. On all these
grounds we claim that the charges brought against our reporter
in the Medium newspaper, will, in the eyes of unbiassed
people, appear to be without reasonable foundation.
Poetts.
DEVOTION AND NEW BONNETS.
A FOOLISH little maiden bought a foolish little bonnet,
With a ribbon, and a feather, and a bit of lace upon it:
And that the other maidens of the little town might know it,
She thought she’d go to church on Sunday morn to show it.
But though the little bonnet was scarcely larger than a dime,
The getting of it settled took up some little time;
So when ’twas fairly tied all the bells had stopped their ringing,
And when she came to church, sure all the folks were singing.
So this foolish little maiden stood and waited at the door,
And she smoothed her ruffles out behind, and smoothed them down before,
“Hallelujah! Hallelujah!” sang the choir above her head—
“Hardly knew you! hardly knew you!” were the words she thought
they said.
This made the little maid feel so very very cross,
That she gave her little mouth a twist—her little head a toss:
For she thought the very hymn they sang was all about her bonnet,
With the ribbon, and the feather, and the bit of lace upon it.
And she would not wait to listen to the sermon or the prayer,
But pattered down the silent street and hurried up the stair,
Till she reached her little drawer, and in a bandbox on it,
She hid quite safe from critic’s eye her foolish little bonnet.
What pains the little maiden is that you will ever find,
In every Sunday service but an echo of your mind,
And that every little head which is filled with little airs,
Will never get a blessing from sermon or from prayers.
Whilst in “ idiotic fringe ” in front and chignon stuck behind
In size proportionate, a want of common sense you’ll find.
The wonder is that siHy things can take such daily pains
To publish to the world at large how much they lack in brains.
American Paper.
<Eomgpontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
DR. H'LEOD’S “LOGIC OF THE SPIRIT.”
Sib,—The great majority of Spiritualists do not appear as
yet to have acquired any very definite ideas on the subject of
Psychology; and, with all the experimental data almost in
their exclusive possession, they are hardly, perhaps, in a
position to discuss the question of the dichotomy or the tri¬
chotomy * of man. Yet it is undoubtedly through mesmerism
and Spiritualism that this subject and this question are to be
clearly elucidated. The assertion that most Spiritualists are
thoroughly materialistic in their notions or in their philosophy,
may sound strangely paradoxical, yet it embodies my expe¬
rience. In their reasonings on the stupendous phenomena of
Spiritualism, which are urged upon their attention in so many
ways, most Spiritualists employ only those mental organs
which relate them intellectually to a material world. Though
privileged to know some of the greatest phenomenal truths,
they have not yet exercised the metaphysical or spiritual
faculties sufficiently to be able to realise the existence of
anything that is not material—i.e., related to the temporary
organs of sense by which we are adapted for earth-life.
Recently, a scientific Spiritualist assured me that nearly all
Spiritualists would agree with him that G-od and matter have
co-existed from all eternity—that they are equally increate.
Are we to conclude from this that the present tendency of
most Spiritualists is towards a modified yet not very elevated
pantheism, or simply that they require to be educated in those
bearings of Spiritualism.which are not merely phenomenal?
The lecture of Dr. McLeod, as reported in your columns,
has probably done good service in stimulating philosophical
inquiry amongst Spiritualists. I am, therefore, thankful to
him for it, even whilst attempting to carry forward his work
in the capacity of an objector. My objection is to the mate¬
rialistic views and to the dichotomy which are exclusively
brought into evidence by the lecturer. Were it not that Dr.
McLeod assures us that he has made a really laborious and
exhaustive study of his subject, we might suppose him to be
wholly unacquainted with the Paulian trichotomy, and with
the writings of such men as Roos, Schubert, Olshausen, Beck,
Haussmann, Oehler, Hofmann, Gdschel, Yon Rudloff, Delitzsch,
Ellicott, Alford and Heard, who have corrected the dichotomy
of the Latin Fathers, and seized upon the true distinction
between Pneuma and Psyche. His psychology is that of
Plato and Philo, the Latin Fathers, St. Augustine, and the
medigeval churches. He speaks of “ soul or spirit,” and refers
to the pneuma only in the sense of the Schools, as a sub¬
division of the psyche. He wholly ignores both scriptural
* Dichotomy—the doctrine of the dual nature of man, as soul and body
Trichotomy—that of the tripartite nature of man, as spirit, soul, and body.
366
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 15, 1873.
psychology and the Greek Fathers—Iren sens, Justin Martyr,
Ciement of Alexandria, Origen, Didymus of Alexandria,
Gregory of Nyssa, and Basil of Csesarea—who all note the
distinction between spirit and soul. For my own part, I
should find no cause for complaint in the fact of Dr. McLeod
having utterly neglected all the authorities I have named,
had he at the same time ignored the materialistic dogmas of
St. Hilary, and the “three sorts of souls” of the ancient
Greeks, and attacked the question solely from the standpoint
of scientific Spiritualism. But the lecturer, whilst endorsing
a dichotomy which is as old as philosophy itself, leaves us in
doubt whether he is not au fond a materialist first, if a Spi¬
ritualist afterwards. As I have stated, he mentions the
pneuma and the psyche (the splritus and anima of the
Bomans, and, perhaps, the ruach and nephesh of the Old
Testament), but confounds them together as soul, for which
he uses the word spirit as a synonym. He speaks without
protest of f spirit particled and unparticled,” and tells us that
its R composition” may never be. known. Then he informs us
that § the spirit of man is not, it would appear, a combina¬
tion of any of the chemical elements known to us; ” and
immediately afterwards, speculates as to what constitutes
“a likely body for the soul,” presumably after it has left its
earthly tenement. Is this the psychology that is to guide
Spiritualists to a right interpretation of the phenomena they
witness ? ,
So far as my own experience extends, Spiritualism confirms
and elucidates the dictum of Justin Martyr :—“ The body is
the house of the soul, and the soul is the house of the spirit; ”
the trichotomy of Paul and his blessing : ‘ I pray God your
whole spirit and soul and body may be preserved blameless ;
and the fact of the existence, beyond the psyche, anima, or
soul (which may be regarded as material) of the Divine and
divinely human Pneuma, Spiritus, or Spirit (whose active
faculty is Will), which, from a material point of view, is
nothing, and, from a spiritual point of view, everythingIn
my view :—All things save God are embodiments of God’s
will ; but man has been made in the image and likeness of
his Creator; his spirit is eternal, he is surrounded by God’s
will as with a garment; but, by God’s gift, he has a sphere in
which his own will-power may be exerted.
Desmond G. Fitzgerald.
6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton.
SUPERSTITIONS OP THE KOORDS.
Sir,—Perhaps the following extract from Major Millingen’s
'Wild Life among the Koords will interest your readers.
“ Superstition has a far stronger hold on the ignorant minds
of the Koords than religion. They believe in the Firs (Holy
Protectors), in whose power and intercession they trust.
Their fear of the Idjins is childish and ludicrous. The Idjins
and the Periis are the malicious and the benign spirits whose
action over mankind is, according to the Koran, all-powerful.
To these supernatural agents the Sheyts must be added.
Under this denomination the Mussulmans comprise all the
martyrs of Islam, those that have fallen in the defence of the
faith of Mohammed. The tomb's of the Sheyts are considered
holy, and the miracles performed by them, as well as their
apparitions before the living, are believed to be phenomena
of common occurrence. In the belief of the Koords these
troops of wandering spirits form a kind of fluctuating popu¬
lation, as nomadic in their tastes as the living inhabitants of
the country. Their mission seems to be to wander about the
valleys and the mountains, either coaxing or bullying poor
mortals The superstition of the Koords is not limited to
their belief in the existence of spirits In every tribe
there are lots of Khodjas and Shekhs of both sexes, who are
considered first-rate mediums, endowed with great spiritual
and magnetic powers.” Rosalie Wilson.
New Wandsworth, S.W., Oct. 6th, 1873.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
So many private letters are sent us by entire strangers that we are
not able to reply promptly to them by post, and can only answer
them in this portion of the journal.
The signature “ S. L. Oussons,” at the end of a letter in our last,
should have heen “K. Cussons.”
Miss Hay has sent us a letter complaining that the Medium having
introduced matter affecting the private character of Mrs. Wood-
hull, apart from her theories, has refused to give a fair hearing
to the other side of the question. We have no desire to open the
question for discussion in these pages, so do not print Miss Hay’s
letter, but make her grievance known.
The Dalston Association.—The Council of the Dalston
Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism, recently, in the
absence of its secretary, Mr. T. Blyton, passed a resolution
awarding him a small regular salary, the hard work he had
done for some years towards establishing the Association on a
substantial basis being proverbial. When Mr. Blyton was
informed of the circumstance, he respectfully declined to
accept any salary, on the ground that it would be better for
the Association that it should grow in dimensions and strength
for some time longer, before incurring any expenditure not
absolutely necessary.
The late Mr. Edmiston.—Mr. Edmiston, of Becken¬
ham, Kent, a conscientious supporter of the Spiritual move¬
ment, passed to the higher world on the fourth of this month.
He had been seized with paralysis three weeks previously, and
died quite suddenly, of heart disease apparently. On the day
he passed away, at Fountain House, Cromer, Norfolk, the
doctor left him in a quiet state, with a good pulse.- About ten
minutes afterwards, the nurse noticed a change, and sent after
the doctor. Just as he entered the room, Mr. Edmiston
breathed his last. Throughout his illness he suffered little.
Very recently we had to record the passing away of the kindly
Mrs. Edmiston. The separation of both parents from a large
family of sons and daughters, leaves the survivors to that
alleviation of sorrow which Spiritualism alone can give.
Trade Interests!—Up to the present time there has
been but one bookselling agency in London for the exclusive
dissemination of works and periodicals on Spiritualism, and
the proprietor has been liberally supported by public subscrip¬
tions to carry on the good work. But he happens to be the
proprietor of two of the periodicals, and not of the other three.
Consequently, during the past three years complaints have
frequently reached us of the obstructions placed by the pro¬
prietor of our solitary agency, in the way of the circulation of
periodicals in which he has a lesser trade interest. To men¬
tion only facts coming under our own observation:—After
complaints about his irregular, uncertain, and insufficient
supply of this journal to a large town in the Midland Counties
had been attended to, the secretary to the Liverpool Psycho¬
logical Society, Mr. Chapman, some months ago, tried to get
copies in the weekly parcels of the agency. He ordered a few
dozen, to begin with; but, after waiting a fortnight, received
neither papers nor reply. He tried again, and received some
many days after date. After several ineffectual attempts, he
found it necessary to get them to Liverpool, as at present, by
special separate parcels. Most of the orders from the pro¬
vinces sent to the agency for the Spiritual News were regularly
quashed; and Mr.Wallace, the medium, of Islip-street, Kentish-
town, was forbidden to sell it at the doors of meetings under
the control of the trade agency. It was thought better to
submit to the loss than to exhibit signs of dissension in the
Spiritual movement by calling public attention to the cir¬
cumstances ; therefore silence was kept, and has been kept
for some years, about a matter which would be insignificant were
it not that there is but one general establishment for Spiritual
literature in London, and in that one the restrictions are put
on in an indirect way. In like manner, at all the bookstalls
set up at public meetings by the trade agency, there has been
for some years past a quashing of those journals in which the
owner of the agency had not a special trade interest, as all
the Spiritualists in London see constantly, though all along
he has asked for and obtained subscriptions, on the ground
that he was serving the public interests. Some time since
we considered the question of opening a publishing busi¬
ness in connection with the Spiritualist, to counteract
the restrictions placed on the sale of Spiritual litera¬
ture ; the step would have been commercially beneficial,
a good central place of business and many assistants being
already on the spot, so that no new expenses, but all clear
profit, would have resulted. This was not done, because it
would probably have shut up the other agency, and stopped
the usefulness of an energetic worker, who, despite his sub¬
serviency to trade interests, has done a preponderance of good
work in the cause. But now, as a matter of self-defence, with
this journal about to come out weekly, it is necessary to
remove long-standing impediments to the circulation of one
branch of Spiritual literature. At present there is no inten¬
tion of beginning a new publishing business, since there is no
desire to cross a path another worker has marked out for him¬
self ; but if within a few months the trade interest restrictions
which now exist are not removed, nobody will have just cause
for complaint if another publishing business in connection
with Spiritualism should appear in London.
Oct. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
367
ANNIVERSARY SOIREE AND CONVERSAZIONE.
IT has been decided to hold an ANNIVERSARY SOIREE,
commemorative of the mediumship of Mr. J. J. MORSE, the well-
known trance and inspirational medium. The soiree will take place at the
CAVENDISH ROOMS, Mortimer-street, W. on the evening of WEDNES¬
DAY, Oct. 29,1878. Many objects of interest—such as spi.it paintings,
pictures, drawings, writings, &c., will be on view. The loan for the occasion
of such objects is respectfully solicited. Refreshments will be served from
6 80 to 7 80 p.m. The proceedings then taking the form of a Conversazione.
The Royal Osborne Hand-Bell Ringers will be in attendance, and will per¬
form selections on the exquisitely-toned bells. Tickets now on sale: can be
procured of the Secretaries of the local spiritual societies, at the office of
the Medium, of Mr. J. J. Morse, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.,
and also of Mrs. Maltby, 8, Hanover-place, Regent’s-park, W,, to whom all
communications are to be addressed.
g} The above soiree is intended to be a benefit to Mr. Morse in a pecuniary
point of view. The price of the tickets are, for soiree and re freshments
2s. 6d.; for soiree only, Is. 6d.
SPIRITUALISM.
SPECIAL FUND
For establishing and conducting a regular series of
POPULAR SUNDAY SERVICES,
And opening a Spiritual Institution for the Midland Counties.
The minimum sum required for establishment and general expenses for the
first year is
TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY POUNDS.
The following donations have been secured, each donor guaranteeing to
pay the promised amount as follows:—One fourth on 1st October, 1873 (or
as soon after as demanded), and one eighth, monthly, until the whole
amount is paid.
*** Donations may be paid in, at once, at the option oj the donor.
Donations Promised.
Miss Williams, £3; Mr. Franklin, £2 ; Mr. Hill, £2 ; Mr. Richardson, £2:
Mr. Sunderland, £1; Mr. Barratt, £1; Mr. E. Valter, £1; Mr. Wilford, £1;
Mr. Norris, £1; Mr. Groom, £1; Mr. W. Jones, £1; Mrs Giffard, £1; Mr.
Morris, £2; Mr. Collier, £2; Mr. Taylor, £1; Mr. H. W. Jones, £1; Mr.
Judd, £1; Mr. Huskisson. £1; Mr. Chirm, £1; Mr. Hawkes, £1; Mr.
Watson, £1; Mr. Timbs, 10s.; Mr. Perks, 10s.
Further Donations are earnestly solicited.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, j Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
Y
FRY
into
soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
England the subject attracted attention in Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Association.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
into closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 41d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value Tor sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.   
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CL AIR VO Y ANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 10 "to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, 85, Islington, Liverpool
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS IflTO
SPIRITUALISM, (Established 1870.)
President,—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Council.
Mr. George Blyton, . I Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, J Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. E. J. Wilson.
Secretary & Treasurer.—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes'are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly,'on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi-
nary seance held on the first Thursday eveningln each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special stances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on iho first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
"NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
' “The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily A Ibion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit¬
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.”—Spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, ‘W.O., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, "Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
SIBYL, Sfteress, Clairvoyante, and Test Medium, 53,
Great Coram-street, Russell-square, W.C. Hours—12 till 6. Terms
—5s. each person.
DR. HUGH MoLEOD acts in conjunction with SIBYL for the Treat¬
ment and Cure of Disease, at the above address. Terms, for consultation, 5s.
Visits, to any part of London, 10s.
SIBYL.—Owing to the press of work she has to go through, Sibyl pro¬
poses to have two special days nf rest in each month; and, therefore,
friends will please notice that she will receive no visitors on Vno first and
last Thursdays of the month.
63, Great Coram-street, Russell-square, Oct. 10,1873.
A FRENCH GENTLEMAN, LL.D., Professor of the
French Language, is open to Engagements, and would be glad to
read and translate with his Pupils the French works on Spiritualism by the
late Allan Kardec. Apply by letter, LL.D., Scadding’s Library, Belgrave-
road, S.W.
A DOMESTICATED LADY seeks an ENGAGEMENT
as HOUSEKEEPER in a quiet family, where one servant is kept,
The lady is a Spiritualist, holding no sectarian views, and, with the privi¬
leges of a cheerful home, no salary will be required.—A. B. Reynolds’s
Library, 67, Loughborough- road, Brixton.
WANTED.—A SHORTHAND CLERK or REPORTER
who has a portion of his time at liberty. A resident in the neigh¬
bourhood of Brixton preferred. Apply in own handwriting, and giving re¬
ferences. A. B., Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 11, Aye Maria-lane, E,C.
T'H E | SMRITTTALI^T,
368’
Qct^ 15^|873.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUAHISH DESERVES.* |]
INYESTIGATIOH.
SPiRiTU'ALiSM,deserves investigation because ■within the last twenty years
it has founa'jts‘way*ihto all thef?ci^ili|ed,St>uhtries on the globe ’; it'Ms also
a literature .ofUhoMands of volume^an^i(not a few periodicals.
The'^Ijondom’Dw.lSgtical ^Sociefy^i^dam-street, Adelphi," under the pre-
sidencygff Sir John^Lubbock, BOTty'M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate; spiritual prfeiffiig^ena. Tbe* Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as fbilpws:—
“ H.'G; Atkih^Brf, ^sq[:, F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
UM-nsGrE.; H. B. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Eev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
.Hillier, Esq. ;JHrs”. .’J; G’. Hillier"; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.E^C.S.; Joseph Madrica^Ebq:; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert .Quelch; Esq'."'C:E.’; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
!Ph.D.; William.VolcKrqan, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans',Esq.
“Professor Huxley and. Mr. George Henry Lowes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne 'declined to sit, j
and the following names were subsequently,'added to the Committee:— p '
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; '<EdwSi,d'VW7'GOx, .Esq.,^Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D/JehcMnfEsq.t'Barrister-at-law; J.H.'Levy,
Esq.; W. H. SwepstOn, Esq., Solicitor;’'Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”,
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report,. whjph,i>with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs.-Longmans. ' Among other things this Committee reported:—
“1. That sduhds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles , of •'furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the. touch—
occur, without beihg produced by muscular action1 or’mecMnical con-;
. trlvance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance, of any kind, or adequate’exertion of muscular force by those
present,'and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by-persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications. '
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the, employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable^ integrity, with,no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception,'and everything'sto lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’ ■',»■ ■ ; r-o,’,. ij
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
British national insurance corporvShion,
' £miTED. ’
, Capital—OljEE.; MILLION STERLING.
ffead Offices-BHOWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
' ...EIRE. f •/;
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may, be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at'equitable rates '
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief .Offices for'Guarantee.' 'T"’ ”
20, KING WILLIAM4 STREET,'LONDON,-E.C.
*** Applications invited frpm Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing td'act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
RUSSELL, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, &c.,
• 238, STAFFORD-STBEET, WALSALL. The Spiritualist ,&n6i
other Spiritual Publications kept on sale. Bookbinding in all its branches
at London Prices. Machine Ruling with accuracy and. despatch. Sta¬
tionery-Superfine Note, 6d. per quarter ream; ditto Envelopes, IJd. per
packet, 4s. 6d. per 1,000. Albums, scraps, ladies’ satchels, &c., in great
variety. Printing.-—W. R. Mying entered into partnership with Mr.
Cooper in the printing department, is prepared to execute orders at a few
hours’ notice. Taste and Style guaranteed. Fifty Visiting cards( without
expense of plate) 2s.; per post 2s. 2d. Country Orders promptly attended to.
TO OWNERS OE HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD,:HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
RESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with nojt Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained ion. the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more pers.ons (possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be fouhdin'nearly every ..household. g
1. Let the room be of a comfortable .temperature, but cool rather than,
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there-
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,'about the same'
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with- all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacn other or not is.usuallyof .no importance. Any table will do, I
just large enough to cdnveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does.no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it’sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place, some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions tMt may be obtained. .
4. People who do not like each other shepld. not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why A Belief or unbelief
has no influence’on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well,to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be,.'of t a frivolous
nature.’ A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of ithe circle gives
the higher spirits-more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to’get near.
6. The first symptom of the, invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands’. »The first manifestations will probably
. be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak,"and talk to, the table as to an;
. intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say,‘“If* I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I corae
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? V • Should three,signals;
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent i
system of commimication is established.
8. Afterwards the question-should be put, “Are we sitting,in,the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably “sonde members of'the
circle will then be told to change seats with each' other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is’the* medium ? ” -When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have -all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The’.best manifestations are' obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together, by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; b he manifestations are bom off the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting' of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT- MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
• LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion^ may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.O.
LUNACY -HAW REFORM.’
LL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea-of Insanity, or of MALTREATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are' earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS>LOUISA LOWE, ;
97, BURT GIN ROAD, BRIXTON.
The following Extract from tfye “Act to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :— ,
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justi.ces,rof[ twqpr more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for Such time as
may be specified in the assent, njiy person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such’assent, a'Patieht in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed- house, or under care as d Single Patient."—25
&‘26tVict.,_ch. iii., sec. 18. : * ,
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the ^EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers "of The Spiritualist.
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS.iHOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in'the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
