A RECORD OF THE PROQ^EpjS OF THE jSCIEJMCE AND ETHICS OF SPI^ITUAJ-I^M,
[REGISTEEED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 58.—(Vox,, m.—No. 19.) LONDON: AUGUST 15, 1873.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
(JTotmntg.
The National Association of Spiritualists ... .i. ... ...   290
National (Conference of Spiritualists in Liverpool—Mr. Everitt’s Presi¬
dential Address; National Organisation of Spiritualists; Mr. Har¬
rison's Address on National Organisation; General Discussion on
National Organisation; Local Organnation and the Psycnological
Society of Edinburgh; Spiritualism and the Bible; Spiritualism
in accordance with Natural Law; The Use of Physical Manifesta¬
tions; West of England Divines at a Midnight Seance; Aerial
Flight of a Bristol Minister ;  ... ...<" ... ...! ...' 290
Remarkable Spiritual Manifestations—The Reading of Books by
Spirits ; Dr. Dee’s Spirit "... ...  .'. ... ... ... ... ... 297
Hymns of Modern Man     ... 299
Dr. Hitchman on Spiritualism     300
Lecture at the Cavendish Rooms   ...   300
Correspondence:—Dr. Dee’s Crystals; Sapia Padalino; Food; The
Special Number of “ The Spiritualist ”; The Seance at Dalston;
Spiritualism in Germany; Lunacy Law Reform Association ... SOI
The Special Number of “ The Spiritualist”  ... ~.  303
Answers to Correspondents   303
PARAGBAPHS      ... 301—303
The Best Book for Enquirers.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modern spirit phenomQna, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and commonfense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion  London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co, ^ 
non Keady t0 be ADVANCED by the TEM-
PERANCE PERMANENT LAND AND BUILDING
SOCIETY on Freehold and Leasehold Property, for any period of years
not exceeding fifteen, the Mortgage being redeemable by equal Monthly
Instalments. Interest (in addition to a small premium) 5 per cent, on the
balance each year.
Apply to HENRY J. PHILLIPS, Secretary.
Offices: 4, Ludgate Hill, London, E.C.
Note,—More than One Million and a Half Pounds Sterling have been
advam-ed upon House Propertv alone.
A EE LE FOR LONDON SHRITUALISIS
WILL be held on WEDNESDAY, the 20th AUGUST,
1873, at the People’s Gardens, Old Oak Common, Willesden.
Grounds open at Ten o’clock. »
There are beautiful Flower Beds with Seats in the Garden. The Grounds
being situated on an eminence present a grand View of the_ surrounding
country. All the usual sports, Croquet, Bowls, Cricket, and Archery,
Swings for Children, Gymnasium and Velocipede Machines, also a Race¬
course for those who admire running.
The Band will commence playing at Two o’Clock, when all will have the
opportunity of dancing on the largest platform in the world. The Royal
Osborne Hand-bell Ringers will perform several tunes during the day.
Mr. George Sexton, M.A., M.D., &c., will lecture in the evening, and
prove Spiritualism to be true in direct opposition to the Conjurors; he will
have his elaborate Cabinet, Stocks, and Magic Box, a la Maskelyne and
Cook; also go through the tricks of Dr. Lynn, and expose them, and con¬
clude with Herr Dobler.
At the conclusion a Bonfire is to be made, and when at its height the
conflagration will be almost immediately extinguished by a new combina¬
tion of gases and water; the process being the fruits of a communication
from the Spirit World. Added to this, a Good Tea, with Fruit. Admission
to the whole, Is. 9d.; children, Is. Tickets obtained after Monday, the
18th, 2s.
Tickets to be obtained of the following Members:—Mr. Weeks,24, Lower
Stamford Street, Blackfriars; Mr. Pearce, Percy Cottage, Wood Green;
Mr. T.Blyton, 74, Navarino Road, Dalston; Mr. Cogman, 15, St. Peter's
Road, Mile End; Mr. Webster, Ball’s Pond Association; Mr. Farmer, 47,
Chari wood Street, Belgrave Road; Mr. Harper, 5, South Place, Finsbury;
Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson Grove; Mr. Bums, 15, Southampton Row; Mr.
Elliot, at the People’s Gardens; and of tylr. White, 4, Gray street, Man-
chester Square.   O. White Honorary Secretary.
East London spiritual meetings.—lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at *
Seven o’clock. Admission Free, Supported by voluntary contributions.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. L The MECHANISM of MAN.
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
6. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mysteiy.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS (OF THE ^PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and not
unsteady band.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury.
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
W e think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book, is tightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks,
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation oi £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasurer.
290
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 15, 1873.
CHIHOE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
UOBRBSPONDBNOB.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per-
„sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im-
• portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C. All
■ orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. "W. Alkn, at the same'address; and all communications
* for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. "W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
■ Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist" in
tt London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
■ E. C., should- always he informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN' FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco —Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
. Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
-Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is ohe shilling.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Last week, as will be seen by the report of the
proceedings of the Conference at Liverpool, published
in this number of the Spiritualist, a National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists was formed. The representatives
of all the chief Spiritual societies in the kingdom were
present at the Conference, and Spiritualists from all
parts of the country had been invited by letter, by
circular, and by advertising, to attend, the result being
that a truly representative body assembled at Liverpool.
The representatives of all the societies, and all the
persons who spoke on the subject, were unanimously in
favour of national organisation, and the first Council
thereof was appointed, consisting of some of the lead¬
ing Spiritualists in London, Liverpool, and most of the
chief cities and towns in the United Kingdom.
The first meeting of such of the members of the
Council as were present in Liverpool, was held there
directly after the proceedings of the Conference closed,
and a resolution was passed inviting a considerable
further number of energetic London Spiritualists to
take part in the work. It was also arranged that Mr.
Everitt should call together the said ladies and gentle¬
men at a preliminary meeting to be held in London,
not later than the 1st of October next. Beyond this,
the chief work done at the first Council meeting at
Liverpool was the settling of all the local business
connected with the Liverpool Conference, thus leaving
a clear field before those who will take part in the
work in London. A suggestion made at the Confer¬
ence by the deputation from the Dalston Association
was adopted, a resolution being passed unanimously
that no person commercially interested in Spiritualism
should be eligible to take office on the Council. The
work of drawing up the rules and framing the consti¬
tution of the new Association will have to be done in
London.
The good results of the work done in Liverpool need
no comment. The strength and the influence which
national union will give to Spiritualism can hardly be
appreciated, perhaps, at the present moment. All ear¬
nest workers in the cause of Spiritualism will welcome
the new Association with joy, knowing themselves to
be secure of the countenance of the Spiritualists of the
United Kingdom, so far as their work is for the good
of Spiritualism. Next winter, probably,-our lecturers
will be fully and usefully engaged, and our Conferences
in London raised again to the level of four or five years
ago, when the voices of our chief workers were heard
upon our platforms, and the public meetings connected
with the movement had the power of commanding the
respect of educated listeners who chanced to attend.
The good old times are returning once more, and will be
right heartily welcomed by all experienced Spiritualists.
In future the interests of Spiritualism will be watched
over by an independent body, elected by the national
voice. The circumstance of the Association having
been called into existence by unanimous national de¬
mand will strengthen the hands of the Council, which
will work with all the more efficiency in consequence of
being supported by such a strong force of public
opinion.
NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS IN
LIVERPOOL.
FIRST SITTING OF THE CONFERENCE.
A National Conference, the proceedings of which
extended over three days, was held last week in Liverpool,
under the presidency of Mr. T. Everitt, of London. The first
meeting began at ten o’clock on Tuesday morning, August
5 th, and the visitors present fairly represented the Spiritualists
of the United Kingdom, for among those in attendance
were : — Dr. G. 13. Clark, President of the Psychological
Society of Edinburgh; Mr. J. Bowman, of the Glasgow
Psychological Society ; Mr. H. Pitman, Manchester ; Mr. E.
Dennis, Carlisle; W. Burns, Carlisle; Mr. J. J. Morse,
London; Mr. J. Banforth, Keighley; Mr. R. Nelson, Glasgow ;
Mrs. Butterfield, Darlington ; Mr. J. Weightmaa, Preston ;
Mr. John Craig, Glasgow; Mr. E. Taylor, Keighley; Dr.
Hale, Rochdale ; Mr. J. Chapman ; Mr. D. B. Ramsay ; Mr.
W. Meredith ; Mr. R. Chatham; Mr. G. Wharnby; Mr. J.
Davidson ; Miss C. Shepherd ; Mr. E. J. Bowen ; Mrs. J.
Dimsdale ; Mrs. E. Olshen Mr. J. Lament; Mr. J. Shepherd ;
Mr. A. Lament; Mrs. E. J. Bowen ; Mr. H. Morris; Mr. W.
Richardson ; Mr. A. Higginson ; Mr. George Shaw ; Mr. J.
Dimsdale; Mr. J. Deem; Mr. M. A. Richardsdn ; Mr. P.
Dutton; Mr. W. Davies; Mr. P. Lawson; Mr. H. Jones;
Mr. E. Knox ; Mr. W. Brown ; Mrs. Groves ; Mr. W. Leman;
Mr. H. J. Charlton; Mrs. Charlton; Mr. A. Fegan-Egerton;
Mr. P. Proctor; Mr. P. Davies; Mrs. Shaw; Mr. W. H.
Harrison, and others. Some visitors did not arrive till the
second day of the Conference, and among these were Mr. R.
Fitton, secretary to the Manchester Society of Spiritualists;
Dr. George Sexton ; the Rev. W. F. Monck, of Bristol; Mr.
J. Burns, deputation from the Marylebone and St. John’s
Associations ; and the Rev. F. R. Young, of Swindon.
Mr. John Chapman, secretary to the Liverpool Psycho¬
logical Society, read the minutes of the Psychological Society
convening the Conference.
Mr. D. Richmond proposed that the resolutions of the
Psychological Society, also the programme of the Conference
which it had drawn up should be adopted.
Dr. G. B. Clark seconded the motion, which was then
passed unanimously.
Mr. David B. Ramsay, secretary to the Conference, read
many letters from Spiritualists expressing sympathy with the
Aug. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUAErST.
291
objects of the Conference, and regret at the inability of the
writers to attend. Among the writers were Mr. Thomas Hull,
West Hartlepool; Mr. John Stenson, Batley ; Mr. T. Blink-
horn, Walsall; Mr. E. Foster, Preston ; Mr. Charles Wads¬
worth, secretary to the Spiritual Evidence Society, London ;
Mr. N. Kilburn, jun., Bishop Auckland; Mrs. M. E. Tebb,
London ; Mr. I). Fitzgerald, Brixton ; Mr. Brown, secretary
to the Glasgow Association Of Spiritualists (expressing hopes
that the scattered ranks of the cause would soon be united by
Organisation); Mr. Charles Williams, mesmerist, London;
Mr. George Tommy, Bristol; Mr. W. H. Stripe, Southsea,
Hants; Mr. T. Dowsins, Framlingham, Suffolk; Dr. Dobson,
Barrow, Cumberland; Mr. G. R. Hinde, Darlington; and
Mr. Thomas Housman, Stoke-on-Trent.
The President u,dded that a great number of other letters
to the same effect had been received; he held up a great
bundle of them in his hand, and said that he wouldnot trouble
the Conference by having them read.
MR. eyeritt’s presidential address.
The President then delivered the following opening
address:—
My Dear Friends,—It is with feelings of very great
pleasure that I rise to say a few words at this the sixth
National Conference of British Spiritualists, upon that subject
which is so dear to the heart of every one who has arrived at
a conviction of the untold benefits to be derived from a know¬
ledge of man’s immortality.
We meet here as brethren upon one common platform,
holding one common belief, a belief that rests upon the
solid ground of a personal experience, and a personal know¬
ledge, so that we can say, with that bold and fearless pioneer
of the Christian era, “ I know in whom I have believed.’’
Paul derived his knowledge from the evidences of his senses;
he had heard and seen his Master after His ignominious
death, and this fired his zeal and gave him undaunted
courage to go to untutored nations, to preach Jesus and the
resurrection. We know from the same sources of evidence as
the Apostle had, that man continues to exist after he has put
off his outer garment, the mortal body, and that what we call
death is only the completion of the first little round in life—
the first short flight. Man’s separation from his material
body does not touch his life any more than the change of his
clothes. Marvel not at this, my inexperienced Christian
friends, if there are any here, for were not Moses and Elias
seen, heard, and recognised upon the Mount of Transfigura¬
tion 1 And did not John see in his Apocalyptic vision a vast
multitude from every nation, kindred, and tongue? If Moses
and Elias lived after the death of the body, and retained
their individuality, and identity, so unquestionably did that
vast multitude which John saw, and so doubtless shall we.
This life is only the seed time, not the harvest; here we
have budding hopes, lofty aspirations, and a consciousness
of desires which no earthly good can satisfy; but these are
the swelling germs of faculties which are to blossom and bear
immortal fruit through the endless ages of eternity. Here
we are clothed in the swaddling clothes of our spiritual
infancy, but when the silver cord is loosed and the golden
bowl broken, we shall awake, as from a dream, in a perfect
human form, with all our memory and consciousness of indi¬
vidual being, to enter upon a glorious career, in which hope is
changed into fruition, and aspiration into attainment. Death,
then, is the grand step in life, the great unfoldment of our
being ; it solves all its enigmas, it is the fulfilment of aspira,-
tions of which this life is but the prophecy ; and to the wise
and pure in heart it opens the shining portals of an endless
happy day. Spiritualism puts uS right upon the doctrines of
man’s resurrection, immortality, and future state ; it has
settled these disputed questions now and for ever. It is the
dawning of that time of which poets have sung, and which
wise and good men of all nations have expected. Prophets in
their prophetic visions saw that the time would come,
‘‘ When the spirit of the Lord would be poured out upon all
flesh, and your sons and your daughters would prophecy, your
young men see visions, and your old men dream, dreams.”
These and many other biblical prophecies are now being
fulfilled in our midst. When we obtain the right media, and
a better knowledge of the conditions necessary for their
development, we shall receive manifestations and communica¬
tions far, far beyond our present experience and our most
sanguine expectations.
As order is heaven’s first law, our stances must be conducted
in an orderly manner; there must be no jar, no discord, no
suspicion, or jealousy; no unbelief or doubt; no selfish or
evil desires; for into these states the angels cannot enter.
They—the angels—are continually pressing upon Our atten¬
tion the indispensable necessity of giving them the proper
conditions for ultimating into this world the evidences of their
continued existence. They tell us to lead innately pure and
simple lives, that they may walk and talk with us, as was
the practice in ancient times ; we should then be as familiar
(and more so than they of old were) with ministering spirits,
whom we shall know as well as our own intimate friends.
Heaven is as near now to heavenly persons, as it was in the
patriarchal days, and as near to such as the soul is to the
body. Heaven is not a question of distance of place, but of
condition of state. If we wish then to have intercourse with
the inhabitants of heaven, we must cultivate those qualities
which characterise their harmonious, pure, and holy lives.
Our circles must be composed of homogeneous souls of both
sexes, and there must be a harmonious activity of all the
spiritual faculties, every thought and affection must not only
be in perfect accord with every other thought and affection
in the same mind, but in all minds; we must not only be
earnest in prayer, but joyous in praise, and if possible breath¬
ing simultaneously; for into such states of joy, peace, and
harmony, the angels can flow, and give us such unmistakable
evidence of their nearness and presence, of their substan¬
tiality and individuality as will confirm the ancient records'
that they did eat with Abraham, wrestle with Jacob, and
converse with the prophets; •
I know from long experience the great difficulty there is,
in getting together a few congenial persons who have sufficient
faith and patience to persevere to obtain such grand results.
Our perseverance has not been unrewarded, I hold in my hand
one of many papers written directly by spirits. This is one
given to us quite lately. It contains a Latin quotation from
Cicero. The translation is by Mr. Keningale Cook :—
“ I know not how there inheres in minds a certain presenti¬
ment, as it were, of ages to come, and that it both chiefly
springs and most easily appears in the largest natures and
most lofty minds.
“ One of the best springs of generous and worthy ac¬
tions is the having generous and worthy thoughts of your¬
selves. Whoever has a mean opinion of the dignity of his
nature, will act in no higher a rank than he has allotted him¬
self in his own estimation. If he considers his being as cir¬
cumscribed by the uncertain term of a few years, his designs
will be contracted into the same narrow span he imagines is
to bound his existence. How can he exalt his thoughts to
anything great and noble, who only believes, that after a
short term on the earth sphere, he is to sink into oblivion, and
to lose his consciousness for ever ? For this reason so useful
and elevated a contemplation as that of the soul’s immortality
cannot be resumed too often. There is not a more improving
exercise to the human mind than to be frequently reviving its
own great privileges and endowments, nor a more effectual
means to awaken an ambition, raised above low objects and
little pursuits, than to value yourselves as heirs of eternity. It
is a very great satisfaction to consider, the best and wisest of
mankind in all nations and ages, asserting, as with one voice,
this their birth-right, and to find it ratified by an express
revelation. At the same time, if you turn your thoughts
inward upon yourselves, you meet with a kind of secret sense,
concurring with the proofs of your own immortality. You
have therefore a good presumptive argument, from the in¬
creasing appetite the mind has to knowledge, and to the
extending its own faculties, which cannot be accomplished
(as the more restrained perfection of lower creatures may)
in the limits of a short life; Another conjecture may be
raised from your appetite to duration itself, and from a'
reflection of your progress through the several stages
of it; you complain of the shortness of life, and yet are per¬
petually hurrying over the parts to arrive at certain little
settlements, or imaginary points of rest, which are dispersed
up and down in it. What happens when you arrive at these
imaginary points of rest? Do you stop your motion, and sit
down satisfied in the settlement gained, or are you not
removing the boundary, and marking out new points of rest,
to which you press forward with the like eagerness, and which
cease to be such as fast as you attain them ? Like the tra¬
veller who should fancy that the top of the next hill must end
his journey, because it terminates his prospect, but he no
sooner arrives at it, than he sees new ground and other hills
beyond it, and continues to travel on as before. Therefore, it
may be observed, that as fast as the time wears away, the
appetite for something future remains; and since the Divine
Being has implanted no wandering passion, no desire which
4»
292 THE SPIEITUALIST. Auer. 15, 1873.
has not its object, futurity must be the proper object of the
passion so constantly exercised about it, and that this rest¬
lessness, this grasping at somewhat still to come, is the
spiritual influx, which the mind of man has of its own
immortality.”
This message, through Mrs. Everitt’s mediumship, contains
556 words, written in five seconds. We will now proceed with
the business of the meeting. (Applause.)
Mr. John Lamont moved a vote of thanks to Mr. Everitt
for his address, which was seconded by Mr. Chatham, and
passed unanimously.
NATIONAL OBGANISATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The President announced that the subject of National Or¬
ganisation was the first one to be considered.
Mr. John Chapman said that organisation was necessary for
the welfare and future progress of Spiritualism. According
to Moses, chaos first reigned in the universe, but order and
harmony came out of it, and order was necessary for great
achievements in connection with Spiritualism as well as in
connection with anything else. We should bind ourselves
together to give a wider spread to Spiritualism and its philo¬
sophy, but not to make them into a creed or formula. The
time had come when our forces should be joined to form a
tower of strength to ward off the attacks of enemies, for the
Church bad denounced Spiritualism, the world had scouted it,
and a great part of the scientific world had treated it as an
imposture and a sham ; we ought, therefore, to organise for
self-protection. There were clauses in old Acts of Parliament
which might be used to persecute Spiritualists, especially one
passed in the days of James I., inflicting pains and penalties
upon people who had to do with any wicked spirit. (Laughter.)
Nobody would like to see our mediums dragged for persecu¬
tion’s sake before a court of law with nobody to defend them,
and nothing could protect them so well as a strong organisa¬
tion. (Hear, hear.) As Spiritualism stood at present, it had
been compared to a shapeless mass, floating about without aim
or purpose. (Applause.)
mr. Harrison’s address on national organisation.
The President called upon the representative of the Dalston
Association to address the meeting.
Mr. W. H. Harrison then delivered the following address
on behalf of the Dalston Association of Enquirers into
Spiritualism:—
Mr. President, Ladies, and Gentlemen,—
When the Liverpool Psychological Society recently desired
to invite London Spiritualists to take part in the proceedings
of the present Conference, your secretary found it necessary
to put himself in communication with several societies in
London, and to write to a large number of private individuals,
because there is no general organisation of Spiritualists in
the Metropolis, as there is in Liverpool. In London, Spiritua¬
lists are unfortunately broken up into sections. There are
two or three local organisations, and the chief of these is the
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism.
The letter from your secretary to that association was con-
sideied at the sixth half-yearly general meeting of its members,
held on the 14th July last, and the meeting honoured me by
passing a resolution, asking me to act as the representative
of the Dalston Society at your Conference.
When informed of this circumstance by Mr. T. Blyton, the
secretary to the Dalston Association, I informed him that as
I did not know the views of the association about national
organisation, and about the other subjects to be discussed at
the Conference, it might be as well for the Dalston Society
to call a meeting to consider the various subjects, and to draw
up a document embodying the views of the association, which
written statement I could present at your Conference, and
verbally explain the points in detail, if necessary. He re¬
plied that there were objections to the course of calling more
special meetings, and that although at your Conference I
should be giving my personal opinions, the Dalston Associa¬
tion had confidence in those opinions, as proved by the reso¬
lution it had passed. Moreover, my views on the subject of
organisation have frequently been published.
Then came another difficulty; I had also to be in atten¬
dance at your Conference as the representative of The
Spiritualist newspaper, and in this latter capacity desired to
be present merely as an impartial observer of the proceedings,
taking part in no debate or division, and proposing no reso¬
lutions. Consequently it seemed advisable to put what I had
to say on behalf of the Dalston Association in the form of
a single address, so that it might not be necessary afterwards
to take part in any discussion, beyond perhaps uttering a few
explanatory sentences.
That national, or metropolitan organisation, on good prin¬
ciples would be of great advantage to Spiritualism there can
be no question ; all movements are benefitted by union and
organisation, and a national organisation always does far
more good for the cause it represents than a local one. There
are several practical examples of this in the scientific world.
A national organisation would naturally select London as its
headquarters, and as a large proportion of its members would
probably be residents in London, the two questions of metro¬
politan and national organisation are very closely allied. For
the sake of convenience, in not undertaking too much at once,
London Spiritualists might preferably be recomtnended by the
Conference to organise just as has been done in Liverpool,
and a little later there should be the formation of a national
organisation, in which metropolitan and provincial societies
might be fairly represented, just as the British Association re¬
presents scientific societies.
I think that an organisation should be formed for purely
business purposes, just as in Liverpool, and should not deal
with theological questions calculated to provoke discord;
and, as the principles of association adopted in Liverpool have
been beneficial to Spiritualism, of course they would work
equally beneficially in London. No person having directly or
indirectly any commercial connection with Spiritualism,
should be eligible to take office on the Council, to vote, or to
have anything to do with the formation of the association,
which regulation would exclude myself. I think that the
proposed association should be managed by a properly elected
council of leading Spiritualists, and there are many in our
ranks eminent in literature, in science, and in art, and who—
above all—are staunch supporters of our noble cause.
The advantage of such an organisation would be felt at
once. For instance, if your secretary wished to communicate
with a representative body of London Spiritualists, he could
then do it by writing one note, instead of the dozen or two he
sent a few weeks ago. The funds at the disposal of the
Central Association would be large, since there are many
persons who desire to aid Spiritualism financially, but who do
not do so now, because there is no general organisation in
London to receive subscriptions, or to control expenditure.
What the first work of an organisation would be, it is impos¬
sible to say, and would be disrespectful, perhaps, to suggest,
but very probably it would begin by keeping our best lec¬
turers constantly engaged in their public work, and in seeing
that they were fairly remunerated for the same. At present
our lecturers are more engaged, and better remunerated, in
the provinces than in London. An organisation might protect
individuals from persecution, for very hard cases of persecu¬
tion for bearing witness to the truth of Spiritualism occasion¬
ally occur. An organisation might help workers in the
movement, who like Mr. Cogman at the East-end of London,
have been giving their lives to the cause for years, with
scarcely a shadow of substantial recognition by fellow
Spiritualists. It might encourage young associations, like
the one at Pimlico, which some of “ the powers that be ”
have already attempted quietly to check. But there is now no
organisation to strengthen new local movements, either with
its influence or financial support, even when these movements
are begun by energetic, clear-headed men, who manage their
work in a business-like way, and really deserve support. If
an organisation in London had merely £100 a-year to expend,
instead of the large sums it would really possess, it could do
an immense amount of good now left undone, and its moral
support would be of incalculable benefit.
I would, therefore, respectfully suggest that the Conference
might, perhaps, do well to pass resolutions somewhat to the
following effect :—
Is That it would be greatly for the benefit of Spiritualism if London
Spiritualists would organise, and afterwards confer with provincial socie¬
ties ou the question of national organisation.
2. That no person commercially interested in Spiritualism should be
eligible to vote or to accept a seat .on the Council of the proposed Asso¬
ciation.
3. That the president of the Liverpool Conference, Mr. Everitt, be re¬
quested to bring these two resolutions under the notice of some of the
leading Metropolitan Spiritualists, and to invite them to co-operate with
him in taking the necessary steps to establish an organisation in London as
soon as it can conveniently be done.
You may ask what kind of men might be considered as most
suitable for a metropolitan or a national association ? I should
say the best men connected with our movement, such, for in¬
stance, as Mr. Alfred Bussell Wallace, the great naturalist and
traveller, who with a high scientific reputation to lose, has
never hesitated, when need be, to publicly advocate the cause
Aug. 15, 1873.
THE SPIKITTJALIST.
293
of Spiritualism. There is also Mr. Cromwell Varley, the At¬
lantic Telegraph electrician, a Fellow of the Eoyal Society,
noted for his ability as a philosopher and as an inventor; it
was he who did not fear, nearly ten years ago, when prejudice
was terribly strong, to enter a court of justice and make oath
as to the truth of Spiritualism and its phenomena. There is
Dr. Gully, who through telling the truth about Spiritualism
lost most of a practice at Cheltenham worth thousands of
pounds. There is Mr. Luxmoore, who for fifteen or twenty
years fought the battle of mesmerism, and who afterwards for
many years braved public opinion by presiding oyer spiritual
meetings in London, and who has helped the cause in many
other ways. There is Mr. Benjamin Coleman, who has fought
many a hard battle for Spiritualism against Sir David Brew¬
ster and others ; he went to America to observe the pheno¬
mena, he has inaugurated many a good series of public
meetings, and he once entered a police-court and by technical
objections rescued Mrs. Marshall, the medium, from the
clutches of law, and from people who were persecuting her
because of their ignorance of Spiritualism. They supposed she
did the manifestations by the aid of a trained monkey con¬
cealed under her dre-s. Then there is that faithful worker,
Mr. Enmore Jones, also Sir Charles Isham, and Mr. Black¬
burn, Mr. Wason, Mr. Andrew Leighton, Dr. Speer, Mr.
William White, Mr. William Tebb, Mr. Dawe, Mr. Morell
Theobald, Mr. S. C. Hall, Mr. J. T. Taylor ; in short, a host of
educated and intelligent gentlemen, whose voices were fre¬
quently heard upon our public platforms three or four years
ago. Ladies also should have a voice in the management, and
possibly ^Mrs. Macdougall Gregory, Mrs. Tebb, and the
Countess of Caithness might volunteer their assistance.
'J here is much union and friendly feeling among London
Spiritualists, as in Liverpool, and the local societies in London,
work on friendly terms with each other; all that is wanted is
the fusion of all these elements into a metropolitan or national
organisation, managed by our best men, and then powerful
and efficient work will be done for the good of Spiritualism.
The loss of funds in consequence of the absence of metropoli¬
tan organisation is enormous, and the advantages of organisa¬
tion are so self-evident, that there is probably no division of
opinion on the subject anywhere, the only objections I have
ever heard coming from less than half-a-dozen people who
have trade interests in Spiritualism. The feeling in favour
of organisation evidently prevads in Liverpool, since probably
no Liverpool Spiritualist thinks it wise to advocate the dis¬
banding of the Pyschological Socierty, and to substitute the
seeds of dissension and disunion.
There is no necessity for me to take up your time by dealing
with the minor subjects stated in your programme, and I will
briefly notice two of them only. One is, the advantages of
special buildings for spiritual meetings. Spiritualism has not
only its religious, but its scientific aspect; the two aspects
should be inseparable, and. as I once heard Sir John Lubbock
tell a Liverpool auditory—‘ science ” means merely “ exact
knowledge,” and any religious system which fears exact
knowledge stands self-condemned. “ Unscientific Spiritualism”
means, therefore, ‘‘ ignorant Spiritualism.” Spiritualism in its
lower phases is connected with, physical science, hence I think
we ought to have special buildings with theatres suitable for
experimental lectures,_and furnished with scientific appliances,
the lecture theatre of the Royal Institution, with its physical
laboratory forming a very good model. Science has brought
some of the invisible imponderable forces within the range of
experimental control, and it is to our advantage to familiarise
the public, by practical demonstration, with the marvellous
physical powers of things both imponderable and invisible.
Nay, more, in time patient research is sure to discover some
connecting links between ordinary physical phenomena and
those physical phenomena of Spiritualism which to the unedu¬
cated are miraculous, but which are in reality governed
by law.
The other subject I wish to notice before closing is the
project of annual national conferences. Until the great body
of London Spiritualists joins in the work, annual conferences
can scarcely be said to stand upon a national basis. Perhaps
it would be a good plan, therefore, to arrange to hold the next
conference in London, but later in the year, under popular
management, such, perhaps, as your President could suggest.
The demonstration of the utility of annual conferences will,
above all things, tend to insure their permanence, so that
much may depend upon the practical results of the present
conference in Liverpool. Questions of vital importance have
to be considered, so exceptional care should be taken that all
the resolutions passed in connection therewith shall be such
as are in complete harmony with the national and public
interests of Spiritualism.
In conclusion, I respectfully invite your earnest attention
to the various arguments I have put forward on behalf of the
public organisation which I have the honour to represent on
the present occasion, and I trust that the result of your
deliberations will be a series of resolutions tending to promote
the imperial interests of a noble movement. (Applause).
•Mr. John Lament said that the propositions brought forward
were so important, that the address just delivered should not
be allowed to pass without a full discussion of its contents.
(Hear, hear.) He, therefore, proposed that the suggestions
contained therein should be considered at the adjourned
sitting at two o’clock.
This was agreed to unanimously, and the sitting came to a
close.
SECOND SITTING OE THE CONEEEENCE.
Mr. W. H. Harrison said :—To save the time of the Con¬
ference I wish to explain that in proposing that metropolitan
organisation should precede national organisation, I did so in
the anticipation that there might be opposition to national
union, and no argument could be brought against organisation
in London, which did not equally apply to Liverpool. I
think that to save time and work, a national organisation
should be formed at once, and if such is the opinion of the
present meeting, as it appears to be, very possibly a resolution
to the following effect would tend as much as any to produce
practical results:—
That this Conference is of opinion that national organisation would de¬
cidedly promote the interests of Spiritualism, and invites the President of
the Conference. Mr. Everitt, also Dr. Gully, Mr. Luxmoore, and Mr. Lovell,
of London, Mr. Andrew Leighton, of Liverpool, Mr. C. Blackburn, of Man¬
chester, Dr. G. B. Clark, of Edinburgh, and Mr. James Bowman, Glasgow
to form themselves into a Committee, with power to add to their number, to
carry out the above object.
If all the gentlemen named say “ Aye ” to this proposition
it is certain that a very strong and popular organisation will
be formed. The gentlemein named can, if they wish, give
time to the arranging of many preliminary details, and after¬
wards invite leading Spiritualists, including those I have
previously mentioned, to co-operate with them. A strong
expression of public opinion from you would fortify them in
taking action in this matter. I do not desire personally to
bring forward any motion.
GENERAL DISCUSSION ON NATIONAL ORGANISATION.
Dr. G. B. Clark, President of the Psychological Society of
Edinburgh, said that before proposing any resolution, it might
be well to have a little talk over the matter, to learn what the
general opinions of those present were. He thought they
were all agreed as to the desirability of national organisation,
and it might not be amiss to review what had been done in
the past, in the endeavour to achieve the same result. The
first attempt of the kind was made at Darlington in 1865, and
Mr. John Hodge signed the paper convening the first meet¬
ing; a meeting was held in Newcastle, and two in London.
At the last one a committee was appointed to call another
Conference, but it was not done. The last Association failed
because it was not generally supported, and ran into debt over
the printing of a large number of reports. The great diffi¬
culty in the way of organisation was the theological difficulty.
The word “ Spiritualism ” had a very different meaning to
Mr. Everitt, Mr. Enmore Jones, and others, to the meaning
which it had in the minds of Spiritualists educated in other
grooves of thought. By “ Spiritualism ” he meant not his
own peculiar views, but that men have the power of com¬
municating with the spirit world. (Hear, hear.) He had
read in the Spiritualist that a gentleman had protested at a
meeting at the Cavendish Rooms against statements that all
Spiritualists were more or less Unitarians, and the difficulty
was to unite these two elements in an association which
would probably employ Mr. Morse, Mr. Gerald Massey, Dr.
Sexton, and other speakers. Of course no attempt must be
made to fetter the freedom of utterance of lecturers (Hear,
hear), but lecturers of all shades of opinion should be im¬
partially engaged, and nobody be held responsible for their
utterances but themselves. (Hear, hear.) Lecturers can do
much. He remembered how, when he belonged to the
Glasgow Society of Spiritualists, some of the members
started meetings and delivered lectures at Greenock, Paisley,
and other places, some practical good being generally the
result, and much interest raised. He was no great admirer
294
THE SPIKITUALIST
Aug. 15, 1873.
of the Secularists, but believed that if their programme were
to be followed by a national association of Spiritualists, it
would be as good as any. They send lecturers into small
towns and villages, among people who pay implicit obedience
to the ipse dixit of the parson, and thus kick up a general
row. (Laughter and applause.) He believed that a process
of education was going on among Spiritualists, which was
gradually softening down differences of opinion, and that the
strongest differences were among people who came into the
movement full of their early prejudices. To return to the
main subject, how could the scheme of national organisation
be practically carried out ? He thought that Mr. Harrison’s
plan was the best that they could adopt. He believed that a
great deal of money would be given by Spiritualists to a
national organisation. He thought that the difficult question,
“ How shall we organise ? ” should not be dealt with by the
' Conference, but by a Committee appointed or invited by the
Conference. He did not know of any better scheme than that
which Mr. Harrison had propounded. (Applause.) He would
abolish the word “ Progressive ” from the title of the new
Association.
The President said that they were much indebted to Dr.
Clark for his suggestions ; he liked people who held different
opinions to meet in a friendly way upon the same platform,
and the united object of Spiritualists was to convince men of
the reality of immortality. He should like to hear further
opinions from those present.
Mr. D. Richmond, of Darlington, moved a resolution, which
nobody seconded, and which fell to the ground without any
discussion.
Mr. W. Meredith said that he and Mr. Chapman represented
the Liverpool Psychological Society at the last annual Con¬
ference at Darlington, and had there expressed a wish that a
national association should be formed, to act independently
of any local society. He agreed with what Dr. Clark had just
said, except in one particular, and that was the abolition of the
word “progressive” in connection with the proposed association;
otherwise he agreed with Dr. Clark- and Mr. Harrison that
there should be a central society to do work and to receive
funds. His friend, Mr. Leighton, was the right man to be on
the Conference, so far as Liverpool was concerned.
Mr. J. J. Morse said all were agreed that national organi¬
sation was desirable, but the question was, “ How can we get
it?” The existing societies might be consulted, and each
appoint one member of the national association, or a body
from which a working council could be elected. He would sug¬
gest that the names of Mr. T. Blyton, Mr. A. C. Swinton, and
Mr. C. W. Pearce should be added to those mentioned by Mr.
Harrison. The work they had to do was to show people that
the facts of Spiritualism were true, and upon that platform all
could agree. (Hear, hear.) Was it best to propose all the Council
of the new association, or to leave the members of the Council
to elect themselves ? Should the Conference give advice as
to the work to be done, or leave it to the Council ? At all
events the Council ought to stick to business, and hot to
preaching or teaching, otherwise harmony was impossible.
(Hear, hear.) If it kept only to business, there would be
little or no discord. (Hear, hear.) An organisation should
not be sectarian in any way. Although he (Mr. Morse) was
sectarian enough to be a “ progressive ’’ Spiritualist, he wished
the word “ progressive ” to be omitted from the title of the
organisation, because the adjective “progressive” im¬
plied that some Spiritualists were not progressive;
then the public would want to know who the unpro¬
progressive Spiritualists were, so the title would give i
evidence at once that there was a split in the ranks. (Ap¬
plause.) He should like the executive of the new Association
to have offices in London. Certainly London was the com¬
mercial and intellectual centre of this country, consequently
it was an advantage to the whole community of Spiritualists
to have the headquarters of the National Association in
London. This central body could hold its annual meetings in
the provinces (Applause), or anywhere. (Applause.)
Mr. Bennett, of Carlisle, said that fie was an old Spiritualist,
who had attended the second meeting of the old association
al; Newcastle. He then proceeded to discourse on Spiritualism
generally.
Mr. J. Lamont asked him to speak to the subject of orga¬
nisation, as time was short.
Mr. Bennett apologised for having strayed from the subject'.
Other speakers had digressed, and that had encouraged him to
do so, especially as he had to return that evening, so would
not have another opportunity of speaking,
Mr. J. J. Morse moved:—
That this Conference, being a representative one, do constitute itself into
a National Association, and elect from its own body, and from the repre¬
sentatives of other societies not present, an Executive OounciL to administer
the plans decided upon by the National Association for the coming year.
Dr. G-. B. Clark seconded the motion, saying that it meant
that the Conference constituted itself a national society, and
would proceed to elect a Council to carry out its object.
Mr. D. Richmond said that as a society was in existence, it
was impolitic and unnecessary to sanction such a motion.
Dr. Clark said that if it could be shown that there was a
properly constituted Association in existence, he would with¬
draw his seconding of the motion.
Mr. J. J. Morse said that if Mr. Richmond were right, he
would withdraw the motion itself.
Mr. Richmond said that there had been an organisation for
some time, and it held a meeting last year at Darlington.
Mr. Morse replied that, according to the official report, it
had to be organised at Darlington after the members as¬
sembled, so it could not have met as an organised body.
Dr. G. B. Clark said that he did not attend the Conference
officially as president of the Pyschological Society of Edin¬
burgh, because when his society and the Glasgow Psychologi¬
cal Society received an invitation to send a deputation to the
“ National Conference of Spiritualists ” at Liverpool, the
question was at once raised—“ What right have they in
Liverpool to call it a National Conference ? ” The Edinburgh
Society therefore came to the conclusion that it would not
officially take part in the Conference, but that if anything
good were suggested, then it would give its assistance. There
was no national organisation of Spiritualists at the present
time, and as he thought there ought to be one, he would
second Mr. Morse’s motion. The present was the first oppor¬
tunity of forming one on a national basis, for England, Ire¬
land, Scotland, and Wales were represented, and nobody
could complain that they had not had an invitation to take
part in the present meeting. Therefore, the Conference was
not going too far in constituting itself into a national society.
(Applause.)
Mr. J. Lamont said that the desire was to widen the opera¬
tions of the National Association of Spiritualists formed years
ago, but which had neither chairman, secretary, nor officers, so
that it was necessary to appoint such.
Here the debate with Mr. Richmond, of Darlington, grew
very warm, as to whether an alleged old Association was in
existence or not.
Mr. J. Chapman thought the motion a very good one, and
that a better could not be passed.
Mrs. Butterfield (who rose amid loud applause) said that
she represented the Darlington Association of Spiritualists.
Mr. Hinde and others had desired her to say that there was no
“ National Association of Progressive Spiritualists ” (Ap¬
plause), but that they wished one to be formed. It was the
wish of the Darlington Society that a National Association
should be formed, and they had asked her to come to Liverpool
to say so (Applause) ;—they were willing to help it on. The
Conference at Darlington quite fell through last year.
Mr. J. J. Morse said that the Conference last year dealt
chiefly with the business of Mr. Burns, but he believed that
Mr. Burns did not assert his to be a National Institution ; if
it were a national one, it must be a representative one, and
could not be managed by one individual.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd, of Liverpool, said that the objections
made seemed to arise out of previous failures. The representa¬
tive of the Darlington Association of Spiritualists differed
from Mr. Richmond, who also came from Darlington. They
in Liverpool had no wish to take the credit of forming a
National Association. They were much indebted to Mr.
Harrison for suggesting national organisation; there was no
difference of opinion about that. Unless an organisation were
really national, it could not be very beneficial, and working
from small localities, it would not have any influence in
society. He would encourage all outside organisation so long
as it contributed to the national organisation, which would
have the whole country to work upon, and would possess a
mighty power, even if each member contributed only a penny
per quarter towards the national part of the management. He
thought it would be well to keep to the question, “ Shall we
have a national organisation ? ” for it was quite clear there
was none at present.
. The Chairman then put Mr. Morse’s motion to the meeting,
and it was carried unanimously.
The Chairman said he hoped the gentleman drawing up the
next resolution would be very careful as to whose names he
put in it. The meeting could not appoint gentlemen to act on
the Council of the new Association ; it could only invite them
Aug. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
295
to act. He would suggest that Mr. Blyton be invited to take
the office of secretary. (Applause.)
Mr. J. J. Morse said that he would move the following
resolution, which Dr. Clark and himself had drawn up:— .
That this Conference invite its President, Mr. T. Everitt, also Messrs. J.
C. Luxmoore, A. E. Lovell, T. Blyton-, A. C. Swinton, D. H. Wilson, B.
Cogman, of London; also Dr. J. M. Gully, of Malvern; Messrs. Andrew
Leighton, J. Chapman, J. Shepherd, J. Lamont, and T. Dimsdale. of Liver¬
pool ; Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester; Dr. G. B. Clark, Edinburgh;
and Mr. J. Brown, of Glasgow, to form themselves into an executive head
with power to add to theirnumber; to carry out the objects of the National
Association.
Dr. Clark seconded the motion. He said that the result
of passing it would be that the Council of the Association
could do some work at once in Liverpool, and clear off the
expenses of the Conference, leaving the London members of
the Council free to go to work with clean hands.
The resolution was then carried unanimously.
LOCAL OBQANISATION AND THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY
OE EDINBTJEGH.
Dr. Clark moved a resolution to the effect that the National
Association recommends Spiritualists in all towns throughout
the United Kingdom to organise, and to hold Sunday meet¬
ings. Great progress had been ma,de in Edinburgh in conse¬
quence of organisation. In November last he was acquainted
with only one Spiritualist in that city ; there were a few others
who were investigating the matter, but who were not thorough
Spiritualists. Four or five of them talked over the subject
of forming a society, and thought that they ought to set the
ball rolling. About this time, Mr. Walla6e, the medihm,
visited Edinburgh, and they had three or four seances with
him. They next advertised, inviting people interested in the
investigation of Spiritualism to come to a meeting at an hotel
to consider the desirability of forming a society, and, to their
astonishment, twenty persons attended. The society was formed,
and began its work with a membership of twenty; fortnightly
meetings wera held, and investigating sub-committees ap¬
pointed. At the present time the Edinburgh Psychological
Society had fifty members, and plenty of mediums were
developing. Unfortunately most of the members had plenty
of money, and were away yachting or travelling during this
part of the year, but between January and June the societj'
had done really good work in Edinburgh, and had placed
Spiritualism there in a position it would never lose, for most
of the members of the society were hard-headed men. They
had to fight against all kinds of Opposition, Edinburgh being
a most conservative town, full of lawyers, doctors, and clergy¬
men. The only commerce of Edinburgh is in beer and books.
There had been much harmony in the working of the society,
the theological element having never been introduced in a
manner calculated to hurt the feelings of anybody. An
advertisement in a local paper was a good way of ascertain¬
ing how many Spiritualists there were in any locality, and he
advised residents in towns where no Spiritual society was
established to try it. He thought that Spiritualists were very
apt to give too little attention to the practical part of the
subject; everybody, he thought, ought to be a member of, at
least, one experimental circle; if there were more experi¬
mentalising than at present, the results would be valuable.
(Applause.)
Mr. W. Meredith said that having travelled much in diffe¬
rent parts of the kingdom, he was quite certain that Spiritual¬
ism was most flourishing in those towns where Sunday services
had been established. He mentioned Keighley and other
places as examples.
Mr. J. Chapman said that he thought that a great deal of
local organisation was going on, because so- many people wrote
to him for copies of the rules of the Liverpool Pyschological
Society, as models.*
Mr. J. Lamont said that as they were unanimously of
opinion that efforts should be made to promote local organi¬
sation and Sunday meetings, he would second the motion.
The resolution was passed unanimously.
The subject in the programme of public buildings in con¬
nection with Spiritualism, was passed Over for want of time.
Mr. Morse then read a paper entitled, “ Sunday Services,
their Advisability and Practicability.” He said that Sunday
services were advisable, firstly, as affording individuals an
opportunity of meeting together for mutual encouragement,
for discussing the facts and philosophy of Spiritualism, and
enjoying a rational form of spiritual worship. Secondly, the
consolidation of local forces, and bringing Spiritualism promi-
* The Dalston Association has a set of well-considered rules which work
excellently.—En.
nently before the population of any given district, thereby
widening the sphere of its influence. Thirdly, they were
advisable because of the national influence that would result
from the union of the local efforts under a definite plan of
concerted action, thereby breasting public opinion at all
points, and proving Spiritualism to be an acknowledged facti
In reference to the practicability of these meetings the
following suggestions were urged :—That funds be raised by
private subscription and profits of the existing meetings, the
said fymds to be deposited in a local land and building society;
the said funds, when sufficient, to be applied to the purchase
of a plot of ground upon which a building society would erect
suitable premises for a Spiritualist’s hall, in consideration oji
it being mortgaged to the society. It was further suggested
that the committees of the various Sunday services should
correspond with one another, and endeavour to bring into
effect some plan similar to the circuit of the Wesleyans, so
that the speakers available could be uniformly distributed,
thus ensuring a continuous supply to all the societies. The
paper closed with a few practical and pertinent suggestions
as to the payment of medium speakers, the writer strongly
advocating the payment of all speakers as a simple matter of
justice. l
A warm vote of thanks to the Chairman closed the proceed*
ings of the first day.
THIBD SITTING. 1
The Conference met again on Wednesday morning.
Mr. T. Everitt, president, said that he hoped that all the
proceedings would be characterised by the same good feeling
as exhibited on the previous day.
Mr. D. B. Ramsay, secretary, read several letters from
persons unable to attend. -•
SPIBITHALISM AND THE BIBLE.
Mr. J. Chapman, secretary, read an abstract of a paper by
Mr. Spencer, of Leyburn, setting forth the identity of the
psychological phenomena recorded in the Bible, and those of
modern Spiritualism.
Mr. J. Thornton Hoskins said that in the case of the cure
of the woman who had an issue of blood, Christ remarked
that “power” or “energy” had gone out of Him ; but this
same word which had in this case been properly translated as
“ virtue ’’ or “ power,” had in other cases in the Bible been
wrongly translated as “ miracle.” Every modern medium
knew what it was for “ power ” to go from him, so he hoped
those engaged in the responsible work of revising the New
Testament would give their attention to the proper translation
of the word. Christ said in effect, “ The same works that ye
see me do, shall be done hereafter, and even greater works than
these,” which was positive historical evidence that spiritual
manifestations were to be transmitted through the centuries,
from age to age through all time, and that was sufficient
Scriptural warrant for psychological investigation. It might
be asked, “ Why did not these events take place in the Middle
Ages, to the same extent which they do now?” But after the
departure of Jesus it was evident that other movements had
to take place, which perhaps gave rise to His remark, “ Ye
cannot bear them now.” The emancipation of the human
mind from priestcraft had to take place,also the emancipation
of slaves, and more freedom for women ; good spirit circles
could not be held without the presence of women. An ancient
scholasticism was embodied in the dogma of “infallibility’’
either of Pope or Bible ; when the minds of men are divested
of this scholasticism, for which there is no warrant, the value
of Spiritualism would be apparent, for without doubt Spiritual¬
ism was destined to be the creed of the future. He main¬
tained that Spiritualism was an essential part of the Christian
system.
Mr. J. Chapman said that once he considered the spiritual
manifestations in the Bible to be ignorantly devised fables,
but Spiritualism had since made him accept them as truth,
and caused him to swallow not only Jonah, but the whale
as well (Laughter).
The Rev. F. R. Young, of Swindon, said that he was sure
that there was a connection between the teachings of thb
Bible and the teachings of Spiritualism. Both told of extra,-
ordinary phenomena which could be traced to supernatural
sources, and were due to the action of spirits, but beyond that
a debatable laud was reached, and the Bible did not endorse
what was said through many media.
Mr. J. J. Morse said that the subject was “ The Harmony
between the Teachings of the Bible and those Of modern
296
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 15, 1873.
Spiritualism.” He thought this would have drawn attention
to such matters as the origin of the world, the age of the
world, the rotation of the earth, and similar matters. If the
teachings of Spiritualism were in harmony with those in the
Bible, well and good; if not, let them try to harmonise
what teachings in the Bible were useful and just, and put
aside the rest.
Mr. George Sexton, M.D., remarked that the teachings of
spirits were just as bonflicting as the teachings of persons in
the flesh, but he proclaimed that the true teachings of
Spiritualism and those of the Bible were the same.
Mr. Meredith, said that if all the Spiritualism were to be
taken out of the Bible, nothing would be left but the cover.
Dr. G. B. Clark said that the facts were the same in both
instances nobody could dispute, but the question whether the
teachings of the Bible and those of Spiritualism were the
same, well deserved the consideration of the Conference;
probably everybody present attached different meanings to
the words “ Bible ” and “ Spiritualism,” thereby causing con¬
fusion. Beyond the main fact that men live again in another
stage of existence, he thought that the teachings of the Bible
and those through modern media did not agree, but that the
latter teachings were more in accordance with the truths of
science. He thought that as a system of ethics the teachings
of Christ were about as high and as pure as the human mind
could conceive, and that nothing superior had been given
through modern mediums. On the subjects of the origin and
the destiny of man, the teachings of modern spirits were far
more reasonable than the teachings of those who communi¬
cated in ancient times; they were more in accordance with
modern science and with purity of thought.
The secretary then read part of a paper received from a
contributor in Newcastle. It contained rough intemperate
expressions, and on the motion of Dr. Sexton, it was unani¬
mously agreed that the rest of it should be read that day six
months. The secretary said he did not know its contents
beforehand, or he would not have brought it under the notice
of the meeting, which was then adjourned.
FOUETH SITTING.
The Conference met again on Wednesday afternoon.
Mr. T. Everitt, president, said that in the previous discussions
the speakers had omitted to state that both Spiritualism and
the Bible teach that the better the lives men lead on earth,
the happier will they be hereafter. (Applause.) He hoped
they would at once proceed to discuss the next subject, which
was—
SPIRITUALISM IN ACCORDANCE WITH NATURAL LAW.
Mr. D. Richmond expressed the opinion that spiritual phe¬
nomena were not in accordance with natural law.
Mr. J. Thornton Hoskins said that it would be well not to
dispute about terms. He thought that the phenomenal facts
of Spiritualism were the result of the higher laws of nature.
He should define a law as a series of effects traceable to one
or a plurality of causes, effects chained to other effects by
links of causation. Spiritual phenomena were in strict ac¬
cordance with the higher laws of nature. God’s messages to
man are given, not by any special revelation, but through the
agency of fallible human beings, for the Great Mind of the
universe always acts through human instrumentality. All
knowledge points in one direction, and in one direction only,
namely, that spiritual beings communicate under natural law.
The results of these laws need not manifest themselves to the
same extent in every period of history, and they were cer¬
tainly stronger in the first century than they are now, although
the laws must have continued ever since, since eternal laws
must be continuous. He was rather a conservative Spiritualist,
and believed to some extent in the exceptional divinity of
Christ, still, he thought that Spiritualists should offer the
most implacable opposition to Papal or Biblical infallibility.
In the days of old a body of fallible men selected those books
which were to be infallible ; their decision was confirmed by
Pope Innocent I., and since then Protestants have adopted
the horrible doctrine of the infallibility of the selected books.
Spiritualists had many points in common with broad church¬
men, for all the latter are opposed to the doctrine of the in¬
fallibility of the Bible, although they pay great respect to the
Bible itself; he wished the Bible to be placed upon a sound,
rational, scientific basis. He believed that rationalism would
present few attractions to the masses of the people, conse¬
quently that the latter would go back to Catholicism, unless
rescued therefrom by the facts of Spiritualism. God’s govern¬
ment of the world was progressive, religion was a progressive
science, and that Spiritualism was destined to be the creed of
the future, the natural outgrowth of Protestantism, was as
clear as anything could be. (Applause.)
The Rev. F. R. Young said that the logical necessity of an
infallible book was an infallible church.
Dr. G. B. Clark said that the phenomena of Spiritualism
were certainly in accordance with natural law. It was merely
an assumption that the laws of nature were unchangeable ;
“law” meant “order of sequence,” and it was quite certain
that the same conditions did not prevail now upon the earth,
as in early geological periods.
Dr. Sexton said that the speeches were putting him in a
thick fog. He thought some confusion was caused by the
substitution of the words “ natural law ” for “ material law.”
Intelligence'was the highest force in nature, for it governed
all other forces, but was not itself governed by material law.
If the laws of nature were a part of nature, they must be
eternal; if they were made by God, they must be as unchange¬
able as God Himself. Dr. Clark’s geological illustration was
an infelicitous one; he had simply shown that the condi¬
tions had changed, but the law was there still, and would act
the same if the same conditions were to be presented again.
Dr. Clark said that Dr. Sexton had confounded law and
force through speaking from a metaphysical standpoint. In
science “ law ” meant “ mode of operation of a force under
certain conditions,” and if the conditions varied, the mode
of manifestation must vary also.
THE USE OP PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS,
The Rev. Francis W. Monck, of Bristol, said that physical
mediumship was both a blessing and a curse; some of the
manifestations did good, others were foolish and purposeless.
He was a physical medium, and at first had very foolish mani¬
festations, and they had a demoralising tendency, for ke
found it utterly impossible to kneel down to pray as usual,
after the silly things had been taking place. They simply
proved to him that some power existed outside himself, which
could do most erratic things. They caused him much trouble,
andatlasthewroteto Mr. F.R. Young, askinghowhe was to free
himself from these snares of the devil (Laughter) ? Sometimes
the spirits entranced him, and made him preach in his own.
pulpit sermons in favour of Spiritualism ; he could hear what
his mouth was saying, and believed it to be rank blasphemy
(Laughter). Mr. Young replied that he was only passing
through the initial experiences—the spirits were getting in
the thin end of the wedge. This reply did not console him,
he thought rather that the spirits were getting in the thin
end of the knife, and that he was the oyster. Mr. Young
came to Bristol to see him, and slept in another bed in his bed¬
room. Mr. Young’s bed was very much rolled about during the
night. Mr. Young told him that “ he was called to do a great
work,” but he could not see that it was a great work
to make bedsteads move about. Physical manifestations
were good because they converted people who could not be
convinced by the higher phenomena, such as trance, and he
felt thankful even for the puerile manifestations he had at
first, as they were such good evidence of some power outside
himself. He believed Spiritualism to be of God, and in
making that statement publicly he knew that it meant that
every church and chapel door would thenceforth be closed
against him (Applause); that his voice would be as dis¬
agreeable to the worshippers as the screech of the midnight
owl, or the hiss of the cobra; yet with gratitude to God, and
to Mr. Young, and to Dr. Sexton, he believed that Spiritualism
was an angel fair and bright, radiant with the glory of heaven.
A few nights previously, in Mr. Young’s church at Swindon,
he had made his first confession of faith in Spiritualism pub¬
licly, and had spoken against the horrible doctrine of eternal
punishment. (Applause.)
WEST OP ENGLAND DIVINES AT A MIDNIGHT SEANCE.
The Rev. F. R. Young, of Swindon, said that Mr. Monck
must suffer for the step he had taken, and he trusted that in
the evil day he would stand ; he had, at the dictates of his
own conscience, placed his future in the hands of God, and he
trusted that He who fed the ravens, would feed him. He
thought him to be the most wonderful medium in this
country—Mr. Home, whom he knew, not excepted. The first
phenomena occurring through Mr. Monck’s mediumship were
trivial and irritating, and he used to write him doleful letters
about them, each letter about the size of a number of All the
Year Round. The contents of the letters read like fairy tales,
and it was evident either that the writer was a most remark¬
able medium, or that he was stark, staring mad. He there¬
fore went to Bristol to see him, and that night slept in one
THE SPIRITUALIST.
297
Aug. 15, 1873.
bed with Mr. Rowlands, while Mr. Monck slept in another
bed in the same room. Two gaslights were burning in the
room at full height, and were not put out till bright daylight.
They had no sooner got to bed, than the clothes on Mr.
Monck’s bed rose, and whirled above him, then were thrown to
the other side of the room. Mr. Monck jumped out after
them, arranged them once more, when his bolster was pulled
out from under his pillow, and thrown to the other side of the
room (Laughter). He ran after it, and carried it back in
triumph, while Mr. Rowlands and himself sat bolt upright in*
bed watching the proceedings. He (Mr. Young) said “ Sam ”
—Sam was the name given by the controlling spirit—“ Sam,
will you move this bedstead from the wall ? ’’ At once their
bedstead ran two or three feet away from the wall, while they
were sitting on it. He then said, “ Thank you, put it square.”
It was then moved till the back was exactly parallel to the
wall.. Next Mr. Monck's trousers went up in the air, legs
uppermost (Laughter), and the money came tumbling out of
the pockets and rolling about the floor. He stood there, on
his honour, to declare that this actually took place ; he was
either telling the truth, or mad, or drunk, or an impostor—
which they pleased (Laughter). The bed was put back again,
and similar things went on through the night till morning
dawned, and then for a little time they had sleep. On another
occasion 
Mr. Monck.—I object to your telling that.
Mr. George Sexton, M.D., said that he had heard both the
narratives and believed they were both true, and he hoped
Mr. Young would tell the other, without regarding the pro¬
tests of Mr. Monck, who was afraid that the outside world
would say he was mad. If it did, Mr. Monck would not be the
first great man who had been charged with the same complaint.
(Laughter.) He had been told so himself every day, and
rather liked it, so he hoped Mr. Young would go on with his
tale. (Applause.)
AERIAL FLIGHT OF A BRISTOL MINISTER.
The Rev. F. R. Young said that in course of the midsummer
two years ago, he had to open a Forester’s Court at a place
some miles from Swindon, and walked all the way home in
company with a brother forester, because the man who ought
to have driven them home, had had too much to drink. As
they neared Rose Cottage, Swindon, morning dawned ; he
pulled out his watch and remarked that it was nearly two
o’clock, and that his wife would not like having had to sit up
so long. After supper he went upstairs and had a short chat
with Mrs. Young, who was doing her back hair by a look¬
ing-glass, while the window was open. Next morning his
friend, Monck, found himself at Swindon ; he told him that
he had found himself in front of his (Mr. Young’s) house, at
early morning, and heard fragments of a conversation between
Mr. Young and his wife, which fragments he accurately re¬
peated. He then wandered about in a half awake state, and
found himself at an hotel in Swindon ; he had no hat and no
waistcoat on. He said that the night before he had gone to
bed in Bristol at half-past one, when he became unconscious,
and on awaking found himself in front of Mr. Young’s house
at Swindon. The house was a mile and a-half from the
station; there was a train from Bristol due at two
o’clock ; if Mr. Monck had arrived by it, and run every
step of the way, he could not have reached the house
till about twenty or twenty-five minutes past two. If
Mr. Monck went to bed in Bristol, as he said, at half-past
one, he must have travelled thence to Swindon in half-an-
hour, the distance between the two places being forty-two
miles. Although he did not doubt Mr. Monck’s statement, he
could not accept it; he took the trouble to inquire, and found
that no ticket from Bristol to Swindon had been issued by the
mail train, or the next one. Mr. Rowlands said that on the
night in question he went to bed with Mr. Monck in Bristol
considerably after midnight, and suddenly missed him from
the room. Of course it was conceivable that the Messrs. Row¬
lands and Monck were practising deception; if so, it would be
contrary to what he knew generally about the veracity of Mr.
Monck, and he thought it not at all likely that two men would
invent such a story, for no conceivable reason.
The Rev. F. W. Monck said that the train left Bristol at
twelve o’clock, and he and his friend went to bed in the
same room long after that. Lights, several feet in diameter,
were seen in the room, and the knocks were so loud that Mr.
Rowlands struck a light; it was then half-past one by his
watch; From that time he (Mr. Monck) became insensible,
and shortly afterwards Mr. Rowlands found that he was not in
the room; he had gone with some of his clothes. The doors
and windows were locked.
A long discussion followed, in the course of which much
was said about the persecution Mr. Monck would be subjected
to among his former brethren for telling the truth about
Spiritualism.
[The remainder of the proceedings of the Conference will he published in
our next.]
REMARKABLE SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
In the retirement of private life, a vast number of
seances are held, at which very interesting manifesta¬
tions and revelations are frequently made, which never
come under the notice of the public. A large number
of Spiritualists and mediums see no reason why they
should incur obloquy and abuse by telling Spiritual
truths to unwilling listeners, especially as it is more
the business of those listeners to learn where they are
going to after “ death” than it is the business of any¬
body else to force them to accept such useful know¬
ledge.
Recently we have been present ..at some seances at
the residence of Dr. Stanhope T. Speer, Douglas House,
Alexandra-road, St. John’s Wood, at which some most
interesting manifestations took place, through the
mediumship of a gentleman who does not wish his
name to be published. He obtains both physical and
mental manifestations of a high order. Raps, tiltings
of the table, the carriage of small solid objects from one
room or house to another, are common phenomena in
connection with his mediumship. He says that when
the spirits bring any small object into the room, he
.usually first knows of its presence by its touching him
at the back of his head; it then swiftly glides over the
top of his head, and is deposited on the table before
him. Large spirit lights are seen through his medium-
ship, and the direct spirit voice is in the incipient
stages of development. He also obtains direct spirit
music—that is to say, one of the spirits usually plays,
in the air, upon what sounds like a stringed musical
instrument, when there is no musical instrument of
mortal make in the room. Statements are occasionally
made in books about sweet musical sounds having some¬
times been heard over the beds of the dying, and pos¬
sibly the two manifestations are governed by certain
principles common to both. Like most other mediums,
this- gentleman finds that uncongenial company reduces
the manifestations to a minimum ; they are moderately
strong in ordinary circles, and of great power when
none but intimate friends and no new influences are
present, the Spiritual harmony reacting in the usual
manner upon the manifestations. So strongly is this
fact recognised that he has been advised by the com¬
municating intelligences to refrain from all attempts
to elicit phenomena, except in the circle with which
he habitually sits. The wisdom of this advice is shown
by the fact, repeatedly made clear, that any attempt to
introduce new elements is attended by failure of the
phenomena, as well as by the most serious physical
consequences to himself. An unsuccessful seance will
leave its mark upon him for some days. It is to be
greatly regretted that under these conditions it is im¬
possible that the results of his mediumship should be
experimentally known to a great number who earnestly
desire to witness them.
But the most valuable features of his mediumship
are not seen in the physical manifestations, but in the
higher developments of trance-speaking and automatic
writing. Whenever he has been entranced in our pre¬
sence, the whole room has been in a state of incessant
yibration, which could not only he felt, but heard; the
298
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 15, 1873.
vibrations go on steadily during the whole of the
entrancement. Raving never seen this phenomenon in
connection with the trances of other mediums, 'we
asked the spirits the reason of it. They replied that
there was much surplus power during his entrancement,
and their method of expending the surplus caused the
physical vibrations.
The communications obtained through his writing
mediumship are of the greatest value. His hand¬
writing changes with every different spirit who con¬
trols him, and these spirits, who are chiefly literary
and theological men of past ages, give their names, the
particulars of their earth life, extracts from their
writings, and on inquiry and search at the British
Museum Library and elsewhere, their statements are
found to be true. The medium criticises and questions
all the results of his own mediumship as closely as any
scientific man would do. He says that he is assured
that the messages come from individuals outside him¬
self, the facts, arguments, and lines of thought being
foreign to his own, and often strongly and seriously at
variance with his own opinions, especially on theolo¬
gical matters. The true particulars the spirits have
given about their earth-lives would make a small bio¬
graphical dictionary, and although the facts stated he
felt sure to be quite new to him, yet, he argued, “ how
can I be 'perfectly certain that they were not once in
my mind, and afterwards forgotten ? ” On the 22nd
May, 1873, the medium held the following conversation
with the spirits, he writing the questions, and the
answers coming afterwards by what Dr. Carpenter
would call ; unconscious cerebration governing the
motions of the hand : ”—
THE REAEIXG OE BOOKS BY SPIRITS.
Can you read ?
No, friend, I cannot, but Zacbary Gray can, and E .
I am not able to materialise myself, or to command the
elements.
Are either of those spirits here ?
I will bring one by-and-by. I will send .... E  is
here.
I am told you can read. Is that so? Can yon read a
booh ?
[Spirit handwriting changed.] Yes, friend, with difficulty.
Will you write for me the last line of the first book of the
JEneid ?
Wait. li Omnibus errantem terris et fluctibus cetas”
[This was right.]
Quite so. Biit I might have known it. Can you go to the
book-case, take the last book but one on the second shelf and
read me the last paragraph of the ninety-fourth page? 1 have
not seen it, and do not even know its name.
“ I will curtly prove by a short historical narrative, that
popery is a novelty, and has gradually arisen or grown up
since the primitive and pure time of Christianity, not only
since the apostolic age, but even since the lamentable union
of kirk and the state by Constantine.’’
[The book on examination then proved to be a queer -one
called li Roger's Antipopopriestian, an attempt to liberate
and purify Christianity from Popery, Politikirkality, and
Priestrule.” The extract given above was accurate, but the
word “narrative” was substituted for'“ account.’’]
Row came I to pitch upon so appropriate a sentence ?
I know not, my friend. It was by coincidence. The word
was changed by error. I knew it when it was done, but would
not change.
Row do you read ? You wrote more slowly, and by fits and
starts.
I wrote what I remembered, and then I went for more. It
is a special effort to read, and useful only as a test. Your
friend was right last night, we can read, but only when condi¬
tions are very good. We will read once again, and write, and
then impress you of the book :—“ Pope is the last great writer
of that school of poetry, the poetry of the intellect, or rather
of the intellect mingled with the fancy.” That is truly
written. Go and take the eleventh book on the same shelf.
[I took a book called Poetry, Romance, and Rhetoric.'] It will
open at the page for you. Take it and read, and recognise
our power, and the permission which the great and good God
gives us, to show you of our power over matter. To Him be
glory. Amen.
[The book opened at page 145, and there was the quotation
perfectly true. I had not seen the book before; certainly
had no idea of its contents.]
Here then are very strong proofs of spirit identity,
and of spirit messages very free from bias due to the
thoughts of the medium. As some spirits can read
hooks when conditions are favourable, the fact brings
their personal identity again into question, for may not
a deceiving spirit extract personal particulars from a
book, and give them as appertaining to himself ?
Seeing then certain spirits are on the whole giving
very fair proofs of their identity and truthfulness
through this medium, the following communication
about Dr. Dee is of considerable interest, especially
as we gave a brief review of the life of Dr. Dee in a
recent number of the Spiritualist:—
DR. DEE’S SPIRIT.
April 19th, 1873.
Can you tell me about the spirit who came last evening ?
He was the same spirit who has visited you before, and has
made the loud and sharp knock. He said of himself truly that
his name was John Dee. He was a man of vast research and
great refinement, versed in the mysteries of ancient magic and
astrology, and all the occult sciences. He was also skilled in
the exact sciences, being once lecturer on Euclid in the
University of Paris. He was in earth-life a progressive
spirit, and versed in the subject of intercourse between us and
your world.
He lived in Queen Elizabeth's days, he says.
Yes. He was consulted as to the voice of the spirits on the
occasion of the Coronation, and fixed the day at the instiga¬
tion of his spirit guides. I do not know the year of his birth
or death, but he was a friend both of your King Edward VI.
and of Elizabeth. She took great interest in his marvellous
collection of works on occult science, and visited him fre¬
quently at Mortlake, where he lived and died.
But he was abroad, you said.
Oh, yes, much. He studied at Louvain and at Cambridge.
He had great power of application, being able to study
eighteen hours a day.
April 20th, 1873.
You were telling me about John Dee.
He is here. He will give you particulars through me. He
was born in London in 1527. He went at fifteen to St. John’s
College, Cambridge. There he studied eighteen hours a day,
devoting four only to sleep. You inquire about his foreign
travel. He went to the Netherlands after taking his degree,
and before leaving Trinity. He studied at Louvain, and
lectured at Paris. Edward VI. gave him Upton-on-Severn.
He lived and died at Mortlake, with a magnificent library of
books on both the exact and occult sciences. He was born in
 , he cannot remember now. In 1551 he associated with
himself Edward Kelly in the pursuit of astrology, magic, and
what you call Spiritualism. The Palatine of Siradia, who was
in England on a visit, patronised him and took him back to
Poland. Growing tired in time, he gave them over, and they
were patronised by the Emperor Eodolph. Banished thence
by the Pope’s decree, he was hidden by the Count Bosenberg
in his castle, where they carried on their occult arts, as they
were called.
What do you mean by "gave him TJpton-on-Severn ? ”
Appointed him priest of that place : though in fact it was
not for aught but the gain that the appointment brought.
Was he then in orders ?
No, friend, never.
What do you mean by his “ lecturing on Euclid ? ”
He gave mathematical lectures, especially on Euclid’s view
of geometry, of which he somewhat disapproved.
Who was the Palatine of Siradia ?
Albert Laski was his name, Count his title.
How has he come to me ?
In earth life he was an earnest and advanced communer
with the spheres, and ever since it has been his special mis¬
sion to aid those who are willing to seek into the mysteries of
Am 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
299
the spirit land. He was a great medium, and was aided by
spirits greatly. Now he repays his debt. You will hear more
of him. Now he bids you farewell.
One of the most conclusive instances of an intelli¬
gence existing outside of the medium was furnished by
a spirit who gave the name of Zachary Gray, who
stated himself to have been in earth life a cleric who
was much concerned in religious disputation between
the Church and the Puritans. He lived at Cambridge
in 1725, and was vicar of St. Peter’s and St. Giles’
there, and also of Houghton Conquest. He was best
known in the literary world for his edition of “ Y® im¬
mortal Hudibras,” as he himself said. This spirit
wrote in a most peculiar handwriting, and in the old
English spelling, the extracts which are appended.
After much trouble they have been verified, with the
exception of the last, no trace of which has yet been
found. They come from a rare work of John Lydgate’s
called “ The Lyfe of our Ladye,” a copy of which- may
be seen, under carefully prescribed restrictions, in an
inner room at the British Museum. Copies of this
work are extremely scarce—we know of no other—and
none, we are thoroughly assured, had ever come under
the notice of the medium through whom the extracts
were written.
On the 24th April, 1873, Zachary Gray wrote as
follows :—
Black was his wede, and his habyte also,
His heed unkempt, his lockis hoare and gray,
His loke downe caste in token of sorrowe and wo :
On his chekes the salte teares lay,
Which bare records of his deadly affray.
His robe stayned was with Romayne bloode :
His sworde aye redy whet to do vengeaunce,
Lyke a tyraunt most furyouse and wode
In slaughter and murdre set at his pleausaunce.
On the 20th July, 1873, he wrote:—
Friend, we continue ye excerpe from “ Ye Lyfe of our Ladye.’1
And dryeth up ye bytter terys wete
Of Aurora, after ye morowe graye,
That she in wepynge doth on flowres flete,
In lusty Aprill, and in freshe Maye :
And. .. .
(a long pause.)
Friend, we can no more.—Zach: Gray.
On the l$th June, 1873, he wrote :—
Friend, I once wrote for you an excerpt from the works of
John Lydgate. I have been waiting an opportunity to give
you another. Here is a curious and picturesque description of
Fortune in her perpetual changefulness :—
“ Her habyte was of many folde colours,
Watchet blewe of fayned stedfastnesse,
Her gold allayed like sun in watry showres,
Meyxt with grene for change and doublenesse.”
On the 20th July, 1873, the following was written,
but its origin has not yet been ascertained :—
“ In the countrey of Canterbury most plenty of fish is:
And most chase of wilde beastes about Salisbury tries :
At London ships most; and wine at Winchester:
At Hartford shepe and oxe: and fruit at Worcester:
Soape about Coventry : and yron at Gloucester :
Metall, lead, and tynne in ye countrey of Exeter:
Evordwicke of fairest woode: Lincolne of fairest men :
Cambridge and Huntingdon most plenty of deepe venne :
Elie of fairest place: of fairest sight Rochester.”
Friend, I have remembered it right well.
Farewell.—Zach. Gray.
In one of the above extracts two stanzas have been
incorporated into one, and the intermediate portion of
tbe original left out, which could scarcely have been
the case had the medium ever seen the lines anywhere,
so that they might be supposed to have come out after¬
wards unconsciously from his brain.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN.
Some spirited poems entitled Hymns of Modern Man,
written by Mr. T. Herbert Noyes, jun., B.A., of Christ’s
Church, Oxford, have recently been published by
Messrs. Longmans. The book is a small one, but
it makes up in quality what it wants in quan¬
tity. The author has an intense dislike to incom¬
prehensible creeds of all kinds, and wars against them
with implacable hostility. Considerable literary ability
is displayed in the little work, which is of all the more
interest in consequence of the author having had his
attention drawn to Spiritualism since his book was
published, so that he now occasionally uses his pen in
aid of our cause. This is his prelude to the poems :—
Hear, 0 ye Christians of every Creed,
Who claim to belong to the Church indeed!
Ye Faithful, who hold to your holy Faith,
And follow the footsteps of Truth’s weird Wraith l
Ye Orthodox all, who all error reject,
Ye Heterodox, of whatever sect,
Who preach and profess the Gospel of Peace,
And pray the fond prayer that all jars may cease,
That the Sons of One Father-in-Heaven above,
Fast bound by the bonds of one brotherly love,
May meet in the holy Temple of Truth
For a worship as pure as the Lilies of youth;
Come, listen, we pray, to our Rhymes that plead
For the ruined cause of that righteous Creed;
If Piety lend us a patient ear
She shall not repent she was pleased to hear.
The following is an extract from a poem on The
Philosopher's Stone;—
Would to God that some new Epicurus
Had dawned on the days of our youth,
And proclaimed, in our ears, to allure us,
The war-cry of Reason and Truth;
All the sermons which shirk it are shoddy,
Their shafts all shoot wide of the goal,
For we hold that what’s right for the Body
Can never be wrong for the Soul.
We maintain that the laws of Creation,
Which govern this marvellous Sphere,
If they were but the laws of the Nation
Are simple, sufficient, and clear;
We proclaim the Religion of Reason,
Which brooks neither rancour nor strife,
In its love for sound logic, nor treason
To all the pure instincts of Life.
We proclaim war against Superstition,
No quarter to Fiction we grant,
Though it feign to be Faith or Tradition,
We vote it a pestilent plant;
We would own Truth alone as dictator,
Its grain we would winnow and sift
In the sieve which the gracious Creator
Has gauged and bestowed as his gift.
True Religion is quite independent
Of Ecclesiastics and Creeds;
All its claim to maintain the ascendant
Should rest not on words but on deeds;
It was never its mission to blight us
Or blast us with faggot and flame ;
The Religion that fails to unite us
Has lost its best right to its name!
True Religion is not speculation
On mysteries hidden from view,
It consists in no fond affirmation
Of doctrine and dogma as true.
It consists in the practice and science
Of duty to God and to man:
If Mankind be the Deity’s clients,
We serve Him in serving His clan.
300
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 15, 1873.
Of the Spirit-world none but impostors
Have fathomed the legends and laws;
It is pride and presumption which fosters
Their ignorance, fain of applause,
Who pretend to an initiation
In mysteries never revealed,
Which the sovereign Lord of Creation
Has visibly veiled and concealed.
It were folly to trust Revelation
Which flinched from the touch-stone of Truth;
We would feel not the least hesitation
In drawing Imposture’s last tooth:
We would tear off the veil from her features,
And peel off the paint from her face;
Though she seemed the most gracious of creatures,
We would not be fooled by her grace.
What of knowledge we have in possession,
What knowledge we yet may possess,
We would fain make the humble confession,
Is God’s gift if more than a guess ;
For we doubt not the true inspiration
Of intellect born on His earth;
We would scoff at no new Revelation
That proved its legitimate birth:
But, and pending the proof, we’re contented
To glean in Truth’s glimmer our wheat,
Without peopling the pit-falls invented
To bag the baa-lambs when they bleat;
If, as students, we strive for the knowledge
Of all God has willed to be known,
We shall gain the first prize in His College,
And hear no rebuke from His throne!
DR. HITCHMAN ON SPIRITUALISM.
Db. Sexton delivered a lecture in Hope Hall, Liverpool, last
Wednesday week, in connection with the Spiritual Conference;
it was the same lecture that he gave at the Crystal Palace,
and it made a very good impression upon the large number of
listeners present. Mr. William Hitchman, M.D., LL.D., pre¬
sided, and for the first time in Liverpool announced from a
public platform his belief in Spiritualism.
Dr. Hitcbman said that they were there to listen to a dis¬
course on Spiritualism by a lecturer who was a poet, a phy¬
sician, a philosopher, a classical scholar, and a Christian gen¬
tleman. Spiritualism was one of the leading topics of the
day, not only in Great Britain, but on the Continent, and in
America; it was a subject of debate in the leading academies
of France, Italy, Spain. Germany, and Holland, and some of
the greatest minds in Europe were at that moment Christian
Spiritualists, in consequence of having investigated the psychic
phenomena. In the Academy of Sciences at Paris, also those
of Vienna, St. Peter burgh, Munich, and Rome, they had inves¬
tigated Spiritualism as they would any other branch of science;
the members had tested the subject in their own homes, and
concluded that nothing but the spiritual theory would explain
the facts. Not only in historic ages, but in prehistoric times,
spiritual communion had been practised. In India, two
thousand years before the Christian era, and in succeeding
ages from generation to generation, it had been proved that as
the tree falls so does it lie, and that man passes into eternity
with all his friendships, enmities, vices, and virtues, implanted
in his nature; he goes there clothed with his own heaven, or
his own hell. He would ask their attention that evening to a
gentleman who would meet the difficulties put forward by
men of science who had not investigated, and would prove
that Spiritualism was one of the greatest truths which God
had given to mankind to remove the veil of materialism which
now covers the beautiful face of Britannia—a truth which
would aid to raise up a moral, intelligent people, advancing
step by step like the stars of the firmament, a happy people,
inheritors of the kingdom of heaven. (Loud applause.)
Dr. Sexton then proceeded with his lecture, at the close of
which
Dr. Hitchman, in reply to a vote of thanks to the chairman,
said that his presence there that night was due to the pheno¬
mena he had seen during the last twenty years. He was the
oldest Spiritualist in England, had never been to a public
seance, or to a seance with any paid medium, in his life, but
had done much in spreading a knowledge of Spiritualism on
the Continent. No other explanation of the phenomena could
be given than the one which Dr. Sexton had given that even¬
ing. He believed that Spiritualism would promote the eternal
and temporal, happiness of humanity; he had given such
evidence on the subject to the Academies of Sciences at Rome
and Naples, as to satisfy them, and his papers were preserved
in their archives, which was some evidence that there was
truth in Spiritualism. If any man would carefully investigate
he would come to the same conclusion.
The meeting then broke up.
LECTURE AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS.
Last Sunday week, at the Cavendish Rooms, Mr. James
Burns presided.
Miss Hay, who had just returned from America, delivered
an address, in the course of which she told how she had
attended the wonderful seances for spirit forms, obtained
through the mediumship of Mrs. Andrews Moravia, N.Y.
Miss Hay said that she went to Moravia for the first time on her
way back from the Falls of Niagara to Boston ; she remained
at Moravia for six days. After several failures her mother
succeeded in materialising herself so as to be beautifully seen,
but her (Miss Hay’s) spirit guide, the late Frederick Robert¬
son of Brighton, failed in his attempts to show himself; she
wondered at this, since her mother had only recently entered
spirit life, whereas Frederick Robertson had passed from earth
in 1853, so might be supposed to have had much more experi¬
ence. However, she did not understand the science of the
matter. Strangers in the room noticed the resemblance of
her mother to herself, and her mother said to her, “ Mary,
will you forgive and forget ? ”—a question the meaning of
which she well understood. She wished every living soul to
understand that the first thing spirits think about on entering
the next life is how to repair wrongs done on earth; they
have to come back here to make a starting point, from
which to rise to higher and brighter spheres. Before
the first letters reached her (Miss Hay) in America, an¬
nouncing her mother’s death, her mother told her of
the circumstance through a medium, and asked her
forgiveness. Next a hand came out of Mrs. Andrews’s
cabinet, waving a white handkerchief yrith blood-stains
on it; then a female face appeared, holding the hand¬
kerchief to her nose; it was her aunt, but she did not
see her features very clearly. Next came her departed cou¬
sin Janet; there was no mistaking her; there she stood
in her beautiful ringlets. Recently she had obtained a
photographic likeness of the same spirit at Mr. Hudson’s.
These three spirit relatives were all Mrs. Hays. The mani¬
festations take place in a rough pleasant farmhouse. Keeler,
the farmer, is a blunt honest man. Altogether it is a pecul iar
affair, and great numbers of people go there, the excitement
about the appearance of the spirits is so intense. Even at
that time the power of Mrs. Andrews as a medium was on the
wane, and it has been waning ever since. She (Miss Hay)
knew why. She had said to Mrs. Andrews, “ I wish you to be
a good woman as well as a good medium.” Mrs. Andrews had
got into the way of thinking of nothing but the amount of
money she could make by her mediumship; she makes no
secret of this, but tells both the mortals and the spirits that
she would sit for neither of them were it not for the money.
On her second visit to Moravia, Mrs. Andrews let two of her
rooms to her, a thing she had never done before to anybody,
and told her she might stop for ten years if she liked. She
remained there for four or five months, so saw much of Mrs.
Andrews and her mediumship. Mrs. Andrews was very pecu¬
liar and difficult to manage, so that very often people did not
know how to get on with her; still, she had her good points,
and could do generous things. She (Miss Hay) would not
object to go to Mrs. Andrews’s house again, although they
parted under somewhat unhappy circumstances. During her
visit to the United States she (Miss Hay) had met Mrs. Wood-
hull. It might pain those listening to her to hear it, but she
must mention it—they little understood Mrs. Woodhull, who
was indeed a noble, pure woman, although it was not
thought so generally. She had been and would be useful
to the world, and she had been persecuted beyond any¬
thing that anybody could imagine. The first copy of her
paper, Woodhull and Claflin's Weekly, was presented to
her (Miss Hay) by Frederick Robertson, through a medium.
There was an article in it about the land-grabbing system, and
about other kinds of injustice, such as are going on all the
world over. She did not agree with all that Mrs. Woodhull
published in her papers, still they contained a great deal of
very beautiful matter. The first time that Victoria Woodhull
Aug. 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
301
spoke in Boston, she^Miss Hay) was controlled by a spirit to
take her a very beautiful rose, which Mrs. Woodhull has pre¬
served to this day as a memento of the meeting. On the third
of June last, she spent half-an-hour with Mrs. Woodhull,
which was nearly the whole extent of her personal knowledge
of her. Colonel Blood was thei’e, and she thought it a very
great privilege to be present with them. She thought, as had
been said, that Victoria Woodhull was the most important
woman on the globe at the present moment, apd that in years
to come the fact would be acknowledged. She had copied the
following remarks about Mrs. Woodhull out of a newspaper:—
“ Perhaps no other woman in the world was ever so thoroughly
and persistently misunderstood and misrepresented upon any
question as she has been, and still is, upon this one of social
freedom, anl certainly no other woman was ever so bitterly
abused and denounced so wholly without reason. The most
beautiful points of her theories are barbed by her enemies by
dipping them in the slime of their own imaginings, and then
thrust into her as her own, making her soul shrink from the
vile contact; and yet the cry is raised: ‘ It is hers; let her
bear the sting.’ The divinist flights of Spirituality, emanating
from her heart, purified from dross and corruption by years of
fiery trials are hurled into the lowest depths of sensualism,
and then dragged forth to be labelled ‘ Woodhull.’ She is
generally supposed to be bold, self-reliant, even brazen; while
her whole nature is delicate, shrinking, and sensitive in the
extreme. That which gives her the strength to stand before
the world, daring its severest frowns and most biting criti¬
cism, is pure moral courage and devotion to truth. And the
fact that this is her source of inspiration, makes the effect
of the frowns and calumny upon her ten thousand times more
terrible than if she were physically hardened against them.
The world may never learn and appreciate this fact in Vic¬
toria ; but if it ever does, it will know her proportionately as
it has dishonoured her, and will make haste to repay the sor¬
rows it has caused her by permitting her to render it the
services in which she would find delight.”
Mr. Burns said that he had not inquired into the last subject
introduced by Miss Hay, so could express no opinion about it;
but the whole secret of the first appearance on a public plat¬
form of Miss Hay that night was that she loved truth purely
and heartily, and those who loved what they believed to be
truth ought to be allowed to express their opinions openly,
whether those opinions were popular or not. He then pro¬
ceeded to speak on other matters, after which the proceedings
closed.
Me. Peebles Anathematizeth.—The Banner of Light,
of July 26th last, contains a long letter from Mr. Peebles’,
dated “ South Pacific Ocean, 6° 23' S. Lat., 170° 41' E. Long.,”
in fact it was written on board a sailing vessel after he and
Dr. Dunn had left Australia and New Zealand, and were on
their way to China. At that safe distance from land, Mr.
Peebles gave the following right hearty opinion of some of
the people he had left:—“ It might not be fruitless for Dar¬
winians to search in Melbourne and Dunedin for those ‘ miss¬
ing links,’ said to connect the anthropoid apes with English
and American gentlemen.” He also remarks:—“ Long shall I
remember the personal kindnesses of Messrs. Beverly, Logan,
Bedmayne, Carrie, Allan and others. Upon our departure the
friends presented us with beautifully illuminated scrolls. For
these testimonials (precisely alike, the doctor informs me) the
Dunedin Spiritualists have our heartfelt thf-nks.” Then, in
the strain of Mr. Micawber, Mr. Peebles exclaims:—“Peace,
peace, be unto you and yours, oh, New Zealand, Britain of
the Southern Pacific.” What does he mean by “ precisely
alike?” Did the New Zealand Spiritualists economically
purchase some printed testimonials, with blanks to be filled
in with names ? Mr. Peebles further says :—“ Most of the
aristocratic ladies in Australia and New Zealand have more
of the grossness of Reuben’s beauties than the delicacy and
refinement of those noble women mentioned by the Roman
Senator. Neither paint nor powder can make up for coarse¬
ness of outline. Dr. Dunn insists that he has * not seen a
truly good-looking lady since leaving America.’ Beauty is a
word of indefinite meaning. It cannot be expected that
‘ Bush-women,’ traversing the gum-fields of Kangaroo-land, or
the fern-gullies of Moa-land, can equal in refinement women
frequenting the drawing-rooms of more cultivated countries.”
It is clear that Mr. Peebles’ does not contemplate returning to
the Antipodes, or he would not thus have laid the foundation
for a particularly warm reception. The men might be paci¬
fied, but who can modify the erratic actions of irritated
women ?
(Emespontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
BE. BEE’S CBYSTALS.
Sie,—Wandering about in the Dublin Exhibition, I came
upon the original speculum used by Kelley, Dr. Dee’s
medium, as well as the crystal similarly used. They are in
the Londesborough collection of armour and curiosities, and
are accompanied by an interesting description. The speculum
seems to have been long in the possession of the Mordaunts,
Earls of Peterborough, in whose catalogue it was described as
“the black stone into which Dr. Dee used to call his spirits.”
It passed from that coliectiou to Lady Elizabeth Germaine,
from whom it went to John Campbell, Duke of Argyle, whose
son, Lord Frederick Campbell, presented it to Horace Walpole.
It was purchased at the Strawberry-hill sale for Mr. Smytbe
Pigott, and at the sale of Mr. Pigott’s library in 1823. was
bought for Lord Londesborough.
In appearance the stone resembles black marble, is flat, and
has a highly-polished surface. It is about half an inch in
thickness, and seven and a quarter inches in diameter. It is
perfectly circular, except at the top, where a sort of loop is
formed in which is a hole for the purpose of suspension. This
is the stone alluded to in Hadibras, Part II., Canto iii., verse
631 :—
“ Kelly did all his feats upon
The Devil’s looking-glass, a stone."
And that stone, it would appear, he used to carry about with
him, exactly as some mediums now are told to carry about
their persons the books or papers on which writing is to be
obtained. Obseevee.
Dublin, August 1st, 1873.
SABI A PABALINO.
Sis,—In compliance with the request in your periodical of
1st. instant, to give my opinion whether the description of
Sapia Padalino and her surroundings, as given by a medium
in London, is correct, I have to state that that description is
most accurate and graphic, especially with regard to the
narrow, dirty streets, the heavy houses, and the beautiful
blue sky, peeping from above. Also of the famous prome¬
nade around the bay, and the latter all surrounded by land,
looking more like a lake than the sea. The person of Sapia
Padalino is also most accurately described, except that I am
not aware she has dismissed the use of shoes, the which, for
aught I know, may be the case since I last saw her two or
three weeks ago. Even the statement of a man* following her
may be true, for the poor girl has often been seen in company
with individuals of a low standard. I am, in consequence,
inclined to believe that the London clairvoyante did actually
see a man follow the poor Sapia, whom, alas 1 with their best
intentions, the Spiritualists of Naples find themselves unable
to help.
' With respect to the house with marble-floors, and the birds
covered over in the corner of a room, this has reference to my
own habitation, and to my birds, which, until the other day,
were unwittingly covered over with a cloth during the night,
thus proving the good seeing powers of your medium, who, if
young, may develops into a first-rate clairvoyante.
Naples, 7th August, 1873. G. Damiani.
[The medium was Miss Florence Cook. The clairvoyant description
which she gave, and we published, was written out by Mr. G. R. Tapp, of
18, Queen Margaret’s Grove, ’London, N. Can Signor Damiani send us a
brief accounr. of the position of Spiritualism in Italy, with particulars about
the psychological societies in Rome Florence. Naples, and elsewhere in the
South of Europe ? It would be a narrative of public interest.—Ed.]
FOOD.
Sib,—The letter of your correspondent, in your issue of the
1st inst., upon “ Food,” opens out a most important phase of
Spiritualism, and gives one answer of the many which could
be given to the question often put—namely, “ Of what good
is Spiritualism ?” Like your correspondent, I can bear testi¬
mony to its value as a means of educating those who are
willing to become recipients of its truths, such as showing the
importance of “ a sound mind in a sound body.’’
It has been my good fortune to listen to many a valuable
discourse through different media on the great importance
of a vegetarian diet for imparting health to the body and
vigour to the mind. That animal food does impart strength
* Ha was described as a bad spirit.—Ed.
302
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Am 15, 1873.
is admitted, but it is of a much grosser nature, tending to
animalize the eater by pandering to the desires of the back
brain, feeding the passions, to the detriment of his higher
nature, the intellectual and spiritual. I may also state that
other evils have frequently been noticed by our spirit guides,
such as the use of intoxicating drinks and tobacco. If all
lovers of humanity would study the science of Spiritualism,
they would find it of immense value to them, by opening out
the region of causes for all the incongruities of human
nature.
As a result of the above teaching I have during the past
two years alpiost totally abstained from animal food, and
am glad to bear my testimony to the value of that course of
diet. I have had very much better health, am more able to
withstand fatigue both physical and mental. The psycho¬
logical benefit derivable from the above course of diet can only
be appreciated in its fullest extent by the intelligent Spiri¬
tualist, for the reasons above stated.
I can inform your correspondent that there is a vegetarian
society already established, with the rules of which he may
become acquainted by'writing to Mr. J. Burns, 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, London, or to Mr. B. Bealey Walker, Prestwich,
Manchester, who will be glad to give him further information
upon this subject.
I cannot endorse the views of your correspondent with
regard to the eating of much pastry; the more simple the food
the better; good, wholesome, brown bread, vegetables, and
fruits, which God has abundantly provided for our sus¬
tenance. These, with pure water, are all that we require
for the use of the body in all seasons and climates.
This being a subject well worthy the attention of all, I shall
be glad to see it ventilated in your valuable paper by some one
more able than myself to do it the justice it so well deserves.
It does seem to me a pity for men to advocate a truth, and
yet be afraid of attaching their names to their communica¬
tions, like your correspondent “ X.”
Bichabd Fitton,
Secretary to the Manchester Society of Spiritualists.
34, Walnut-street, Cheetham-hill, Manchester.
August 2nd, 1873.
THE SPECIAL NUMBER OE “ THE SPIRITUALIST.”
Sir,—Will any of your subscribers be good enough to supply
me with a quantityof the forthcoming special number of the
Spiritualist ? I am not, in a pecuniary point of view, in a
position to be able to purchase a quantity, but I can help in
the way of distribution. I will undertake to see that every
medical man and clergyman in Kilburn has one posted to him,
and I am connected with a Good Templar’s lodge, also a
cooperative society. I have just posted a quantity of Mediums
all round, in the same manner, with “ leaflets ” enclosed; but
I cannot afford to do all I wish. If any subscriber is willing
to supply me with a quantity, of course I will send for them,
or pay the carriage. Spiritualism is making progress in this
locality. James Thomas Erodes.
'50, Canterbury-road, Kilburn, London.
THE SEANCE AT DALSTON.
Sir,—In your issue of this day’s date you state, in error,
that the seance with Mr. A. Fegan-Egerton was held on
“ Saturday ; ” instead of which, it was held on “ Thursday ”
evening, the 24th ultimo. With this slight exception your
notice agrees with our usual record of this seance, which was
a very satisfactory one. Thomas Button, Secretary.
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.,
1st August, 1873.
SPIRITUALISM IN GERMANY.
Sir,—With some hesitation, I venture a few remarks under
this heading, considering my very narrow experiences during
the short space of time having been on my tour. In fact,
I should be glad to correct errors, and to receive more
evidence from different quarters, but for the present, having
been furnished with opinions from distant parts, I may be
justified in placing them before your readers.
Writing to a near relative of mine, in a small but well-
known university town, about my.remarkable experiences in a
private circle, I got the following reply:—“Your letter
interested me intensely, but, touching upon the subject with
many of the learned professors here, they positively asserted it
would never gain ground in Germany, as it was treated with
utter contempt by all who claimed a position of mark in th
scientific world. Such nonsense could only creep up in the
land of mist and fog! ” Well, I think that these gentlemen
forget that the never-fading glorious sun—Shakespeare-
pierced through these clouds, with a host of other brilliant
minds, whilst the teachings of John Stuart Mill have contri¬
buted a nice share to sharpen the weapons of scepticism in
modern philosophy.
The men of science here speak in similar terms, and it
seems that the immense progress of physical science of late has
produced a perceptible overgrowth of self-assertion. Facts,
which are not classified at once among known laws, are kicked
off as not existing, so I find in my country the old song over
again.
Enough has been written about the opposition between
science and experience, but a few anecdotes, highly character¬
istic in marking the ridiculously severe distinction between
the two, may here be noted. A military doctor, leaving his
post for a time, pointed out to his assistant, filling his place,
one patient as past recovery. “ He will be dead by the time
of my return.” He returned, and his assistant registered that
man among the living. “ What is that ? ” “ This man is still
alive, and fast recovering,” was the reply. “ Well, sir, then
you have treated him totally wrong! ” was the verdict of the
indignant doctor.
In another case, a patient having been given up by his
doctor—a celebrated professor—resolved upon calling in other
medical aid, and entirely recovered. After some time he met
his first doctor ; the savant staggered in surprise, and asked,
“ Are you the twin brother of ? ” “ No, sir, it is myself
this time, living once more ; Doctor W. cured me.” “ Pah,”
the professor replied, throwing himself up in all his dignity,
“ You may enjoy yourself, but, scientifically, you are a dead
man ! ” C. Beimers.
Hamburg, August 9th, 1873.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Sir,—Will you allow me to state in your columns that the
paragraph which appeared under the above heading in the
Medium and Daybreak of August 1st, was unauthorised by
me, and that all connection between the Lunacy Law Beform
Association and Mr. Burns’s, Spiritual Institution is at an
end. The object of the association is to arouse public
attention to the dangers of our lunacy system, and it will
do so, in the first instance, by lending funds for prose¬
cution in a few recent cases of illegal detention of non¬
capitalists, where a favourable verdict is certain. For this
about £150 are required. Any one desirous of supporting
Lunacy Law Beform may obtain information from me, to
whom also subscriptions should be sent direct. P. 0. Orders
to be made payable at Brixton-road Post-office.
Louisa Lowe, Hon. Secretary.
97, Burton-road, Brixton.
The Psychological Society of Edinburgh.—Accord¬
ing to a prospectus just issued, the following are the officers
of this society President: Mr. G. B. Clark, Besident Surgeon,
Boyal Maternity Hospital. Vice-Presidents: Mr. Alex. Keith,
B. S.A., 12, Brighton-crescent, Portobello; Mr. B. A. Steven¬
son, B.A., 1, Victoria-terrace, Portobello. Treasurer: Mr. Wil¬
liam M'Craw, 31, Princes-street. Librarian: Mr. E. M. Noble,
C. A., 28, Frederick-street. Secretary: Mr. W. J. Fraser, West
Mayfield. Corresponding Secretary: Mr. J. M. Morrison, M.A.,
27, Grange-road. Committee: Mr. D. A. Cormack, 16, Mary-
field ; Mr. H. A. Fullarton, Woodville, Portobello ; Mr. James
Jardine, 19, Queen-street; Mr. W. Crombie, 10, Gladstone-
place; Mr. B. M'Kendrick, 31, Princes-street; Mr. M. Black,
133, Leith-walk; and Mr. James Beid, 8, Gladstone-place.
The Dalston Association.—This association is so well
managed that any chance error in its government should be
speedily rectified, and the recent reduction of the payment for
life-membership is clearly a mistake, the sum being too low
to be an adequate return for the privileges gained. If every
fellow of the society became a life-member, and the expenses
increase in future in the same ratio they have hitherto done,
it is simply a matter of mathematical calculation that the
association would die a very few years hence for want of funds.
It may be replied that all the fellows will not become life-
members. Precisely sb, but the richer members will, because
they can afford to pay a larger sum at once, and thus the very
persons who ought to contribute most to the funds of the
society, will evade some of their responsibilities and pay least.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
303
Aug. 15, 1873.
THE SPECIAL HUMBER OF THE “ SPIRITUALIST.”
The next number of The Spiritualist will be a special one,
as stated in our advertising columns, and will be full of evi¬
dence that Spiritualism is true; in fact, it will be a number
of special value for presentation to persons unacquainted with
the subject.
By sending orders to our publisher, Mr. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-
lane, London, to reach him not later than ten days from this
time, copies of the special number may be had at ten shillings
per hundred, or six shillings for fifty, on the understanding
that they are purchased at this reduced rate for distribution,
and not for sale. Many orders have already been received.
Will our readers take care that the newspapers in all parts
of the country receive a copy each ?
Me. Enmoee Jones is fast recovering strength.
The expenses incidental to the holding of the recent
Conference of Spiritualists in Liverpool amounted to £30.
The weekly publication of the Spiritualiat will probably
begin in October or November next, and most of the chief
workers in the cause of Spiritualism have written to us, at
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., expressing their pleasure thereat,
guaranteeing, moreover, both subscriptions and general sup¬
port. In November we shall open another subscription list
for a brief period, and many supporters have already entered
their names; some, moreover, have made remittances to the
editor in advance, though November would be time enough.
The Christian Spiritualist recently fell foul of Mr. Burns
for not forsaking Mr. Herne. Whatever the faults of Mr.
Herne may be, he has had to suffer the penalty of public ex¬
posure, and we have no sympathy with the “ eternal damna¬
tion ” theory so acceptable to theologians', whether it be
attempted to be carried out in this world or the next. Mr.
Herne’s mediumship has. made a vast number of converts to
Spiritualism, and Mr. Burns should be commended for his
efforts at reclamation. Powerful physical mediums are sur¬
rounded by greater moral dangers than other people, and the
best methods of protecting them are not yet understood.
Enteetainments at Willesden.—Next Wednesday a
lively series of entertainments, got up under the auspices of
the Marylebone Association of Spiritualists, will be given at
the People’s Gardens, Old Oak Common, Willesden, which
place may be readily reached by the North London and some
other railways. There will be a variety of amusements during
the afternoon, as stated in the advertisement on another page,
and in the evening Dr. Sexton will expose the conjuring tricks
of Maskelyne and Cook, Dr. Lynn, and Herr Dobler. The
power of water highly charged with carbonic acid, to extin¬
guish large fires, will also be proved by experiments with a new
fire engine. It is to be hoped the weather will be fine, for
such manifold attractions will then draw a large number of
spectators together.
ANSWEES TO COEEESPONDENTS.
Many letters are kept over, more especially those which are too
long, and would occupy three or four times the average amount
of space.
Inquirer.—Good workers will be of more value on the Council of
'the Association than persons with great names, though the latter
have an influence over the public; both these influences should
be brought to bear.
W. A.—As an instance of how persons are misled by the state¬
ments, the editor of Aurora, Florence, has recently published a
pamphlet in which he incidentally asserts that the Spiritual
movement in England all rests on the shoulders of one indi-
. yidual, who is' insufficiently supported by his brother Spiritual¬
ists, the innocent writer being unaware that the worker in
question, and the great majority of London Spiritualists, are so
at variance, that everywhere complaints are heard about the
assertions he publishes. If persons now living are thus misled,
what would be the case in years to come, if we had not under¬
taken the, unpleasant duty of putting the truth on record! in
justice to misrepresented Spiritualists?
RUSSELL, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, &c.,
® _ 238, STAFFOED-S'I EEET, WALSALL. The. Spiritualist and
other Spiritual Publications kept on sale. Bookbinding in all its branches
at London Prices. Machine Euling with accuracy and despatch. Sta¬
tionery—Superfine Note, 6d. per quarter ream; ditto Envelopes, l£d. per
packet, 4s 6d. per 1,000. Albums, scraps, ladies’ satchels, &c., in great
variety. _ Printing.-—W. E. having entered into partnership with Mr.
Cooper in the printing department, is prepared to execute orders at a few
hours’ notice. Taste and Style guaranteed. Fifty Visiting cards (without I
expense of plate) 2s.; per post 2s, 2d; Country Orders promptly attended to. I
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
EUBBEE. Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Q-uinea. Mesmerising or Eubbing, One Guinea per week, and travelling
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N.W.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings,
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
R. J. J. MORSE, TRANCE-MEDIUM, IS OPEN TO
receive engagements in London or the provinces, to attend Seances,
or address public meetings. Mr. Morse holds a Seance every Friday even¬
ing at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southampton-row, W.O.. when he is in London,
where letters. &c., may be addressed, or to his private residence, Warwick
Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, is at Home daily (Sundays exceed) between Twelve
and Six o’clock, to hold Private Seances. Terms—Five Shillings each
visitor. 46, Great Eussell-street, Bloomsbury (directly opposite the British
Museum).
MESMEEISM AND CLAIEVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
Now Eeady, Price Sixpence.
/"N OD AND IMMORTALITY, viewed in relation to
vJT Modern Spiritualism. A discourse delivered in the City Hall Saloon,
Glasgow, on Sunday evening, February 23rd, 1873, by George Sexton, M A.,
M D., LL.D., D.Sc., Honorary Member of L’Accademia Dei Quiriti, atEome,
&c., &c., &c.
London: J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.O.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400,- price 2s 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
TO SPIEITUALISTS, BOOKSELLEES, AND NEWSAGENTS.
T C. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
SJ • SELLEE. STATIONEE, AND PUBLISHES, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with_the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOE OF NATUEE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. AARON Franklin, 100, Suffolk v
street, Birmingham.
DR. HUGH McLEOD (duly qualified in Medicine and
Surgery), HEALS BY SPIEIT POWEE, and with very great suc¬
cess. He visits patients in London or suburbs, and at his temporary re
sidence,
4, ALMA COTTAGES, CHESNUT EOAD, TOTTENHAM, N.
Fees: London or Suburbs, 21s.; Tottenham, 10s. 6d. The poor, who
can come to the latter place, free. Cases which present extraordinary fea¬
tures submitted to a thoroughly trained clairvoyants, and without additional
charge.
Dr. McLeod is prepared to make arrangements for the delivery of ad¬
dresses on the Logicand Science of Spiritualism. His lectures are original,
and delivered extempore. Terms (easy) on application.
SPECIAL NUMBER OF THE SPIRITUALIST.
ON THE FIRST OF SEPTEMBER next a handsomely
printed number of The Spiritualist will be issued, suitable for pre¬
sentation to enquirers, full of evidence from beginning'to end, that,
Spiritualism is true.
Subscribers who desire to disseminate copies of this special number, will
be supplied with them at ten shillings per hundred, or six shillings for fifty,
on the understanding that the number is supplied at this rate for distribu¬
tion and not for sale, and that the orders for copies shall reach Mr. Allen
our publisher, at least a week before the paper is printed. Smaller quanti¬
ties than fifty cannot be supplied at the reduced rate. Many orders have
already been received.
Thus a mass of evidence in favour of Spiritualism may be obtained, well
printed on good paper, at a little over a penny per copy. Great care will be
taken in the selection of the contents of the number, to interest the outside
public in the subject, without raising prejudices. Friends would oblige by
sending in their orders without delay to Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-
lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard. London, E.C.
WANTED.—The First Number of the First Yolume of
the Spiritual Magazine, to complete six volumes for binding.
Address—Secretary of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiri¬
tualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
304
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Am 15, 1873,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spibitualism deserves investigatton because within the last twenty years
It has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globeit has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
‘‘H. GK Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D. ; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. O. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq , M.D.: Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Eobert Hannah, Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq ; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale : nd Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con-
rivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported: —
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.'’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into, Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near:
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, andfromthis time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “ Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be- told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and fery sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
B
RITISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Sharks of £1 Each.
Head Offices: BBOWN STBEET AND MABSDEN STBEET, MANCHESTEB
Chief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STBEET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Batford, LL.D., Senior Begistrar, Court of Probate,
Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man
Chester.
William Gimber Goodliffe, Accountant General, India Office, Westminste
London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, 57£, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.B.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “British Imperial”
(originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.B.S., &c., &c., of Somerset House, and
adopted with some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and. Convenience.
In Security, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon English Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium 1 being shown by the
National English Life Table, compiled by the Begistrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-qmrters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIBE AND GUAEANTEE) INSUEANCE COE-
POBATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.C., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STEBLING.
Head 0jffc<*.-BEOWN STEEET and MABSDEN STBEET, MANCHESTEB
FIBE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Beturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Eenewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUAEANTEE.
Policies are issued By this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STBEET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVEE PLACE, PABK BOAD, BEGENT’S PABK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
liberal discount for cash.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBBABY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
BEYERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-EENTS, HOLBOBN, W.C.,
Bespectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
