AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[EEGISTEEED FOB TBANSMISSION ABKOAD.]
No. 138.—(Vol. VI.—No. 16.) LONDON: APRIL 16, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontents.
Spirit Teachings. No. XXXI  ... ' * 181
A Budget of Ancient Dreams. By St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon).. 183
The National Association Soiree       185
British National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the Council—
Correspondence—Translation of Works on Spiritualism into
Oriental Languages—New Members—Finance Committee’s Report
—Proceedingsat Council Meetings—Literary and Scientific Degrees
—Furnishing the New OfiSces—Terms of Admission to the New
Reading-Room—Rooms for Seances—Periodicals and Books—The
Enrolment of the Association—Prize Essays—The Next .Soiree—
Votes of Thanks          186
A Test Materialisation Seance :—A Materialised Spirit Walking About
with her Medium—Weighing a Materialised Spirit  188
The Bazaar of the National Association of Spiritualists 189
Mr. Morse in America:—Busy Habits in New York—Visit to Mr. Foster,
the Test Medium—Interview with Mrs. Woodhull—Visit to Boston
and Mr. Luther Colby—Severe Weather—Railway Travelling in
America—Visit to Bangor, State of Maine—Prolongation of Mr.
Morse’s Stay in America—Freedom of Thought in the United
States—Spiritualism and Theological Dogmas  189
Prizes for Essays on Spiritualism:—^Conditions of Competition  190
Correspondence:—Faith, and its Foundations—Spiritualism and
Theology—Psychopathy—The National Association Bazaar—The
Ring Test—A Nut to Crack in Germany—Miss Lottie Fowler’s
Mediumship   ... ...      191
Answers to Correspondents ...       192
Paragraphs:—Mr. Joy’s Visit to America, 185; The Influence of the
Stage, 189; The Allan Kardec Anniversary, 192 ; Dalston Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, 192; Opening of the Reading-room of the
National Association        i. 192
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(Established 1870.)
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD A
SERIES OF CONVERSAZIONES.
On the first Wednesday of each month, until further notice.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest i* re¬
quested for exhibition.
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets. Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 6d. Sub¬
scribers of one guinea, twenty tickets, each available for any one of the
first six meetings. To be obtained of the resident secretary, Miss Kislingo
bury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.; and at the doors of the
Hall on the evening.
. President.
Henry D. Jencken, Esq,, M.R.I., F.R.G.S. (Barrister-at-Law).
Council
Mr. A. Ferguson Black.
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton.
Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Mrs. Amelia Comer.
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mr. R Pomeroy Tredwen.
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mrs. M. Theresa Wood.
Hon. Sec. and Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
The purposes of the Association are:—
(1) . The collection of well-authenticated facts affecting Spiritualism,
through its own circle, or circles, and other available sources, so as to form
a basis for sound judgment.
(2) . By various means to offer facilities to investigators, and to induce
others to give the matter careful inquiry, with a view to a better understand¬
ing of the phenomena and teachings of Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar As¬
sociations {vidf Rule IX.). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary
seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
'papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; <to which strangers
are admitted, under the same regulations as are inforced on the first Thurs¬
day evening in each month.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, members of the Associa¬
tion have the privilege of utilising the well-stocked Library, comprising
numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred subjects. All the
English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are regularly supplied to
the Rooms for the perusal of Members.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of
the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A. stamped addressed en¬
velope should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies. Copies of the
Prospectus, Rules, Circle Regulations, and directions “ how to form Spirit
“Circles,” with any further information, to be obtained on application to
the Secretary at his private residence, 12, St. Phillip’s-road, Dalston, E.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
THE object of the Committee and of the Members gene¬
rally is, to spread abroad a knowledge of the great and presious
truths of Spiritualism. We unite and labour for this purpose, and ear¬
nestly hope for the co-operation of all who are solicitous that their fellow-
men should become acquainted with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-com¬
munion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and ©n Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
LE MESSAG-ER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Gath (: dr ale, Lifcge
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
T3 EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyehologiques,
JLV fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. ■ Pric.e,
PERSONS in Oxford interested in Spiritualism are
invited to call upon Mr. Stock, 14, Queen-street, with a view to the
formation of a society for the investigation of phenomena and the discus¬
sion of theories in connection with Spiritualism and cognate subjects.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham, Price—Large size. 3s.; small size, Is.
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS AND NEWSAGENTS.
T C. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
Pj 0 SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
London. Agencies accepted for any Publication.
Established 1842.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
ii
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Oitice-Beakebs eoe 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Eussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. 'William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest’
B. Oasson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G-
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Ohapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
• in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1876.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
TUBES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Booms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, • REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, ana
umbrellas.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Jot (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
XTIAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
J- and PROGBESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. GitLLY, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Spiritualism and reform. “ TheBanner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass. U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Tear, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Turee Months, 75 cents.
O. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERR'S, 96, RhSsell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Published on the first of each month, Price Sixpence,
The spiritual magazine, edited by george
SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest
A new series of the Magazine commenced in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-row, E.O.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Numberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
THE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all.
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 2^d. Published cn
the 1st of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Reigate,' and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine
street, London.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
April 16, 1875.
T
HE FIRE RE - INSURANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED. /
CAPITAL £200,000 (FIRST ISSUE, £100,000), ’
Divided into 20,000 shares of £10 each, half of which will be payable as
follows, viz.:—£1 deposit on application, £2 on allotment, and £2 in four
months after allotment. It is not expected that any further calls will
at any time be made* and in no event can they be made in larger sums
than £1 per share, or at intervals of less than three months.
The Directors invite subscriptions for 2,250 shares (£22,500) in the Capital '
Stock of the Company, the same being a portion of that part of the first
issue which yet remains for allotment.
The Directors of the Fire Re-Insuranee Corporation, Limited, in inviting
Subscriptions for the Shares mentioned above, deem it desirable to state
that:—
Each one of them, before joining the Board of the Corporation, made
bona fide application for Five Hundred Pounds’ worth of Shares, paying for
the same in the manner required in the Prospectus.
Since becoming Directors of the Corporation they have each (by subscrib¬
ing the sum of One Thousand Pounds to the Corporation’s Guarantee Fund)
increased their financial interest in the Corporation tq the sum of One Thou¬
sand Five Hundred Pounds.
Eyery Share issued by the Corporation has been allotted upon 6ona fide
applications only. Not one Share has been given away.
DIRECTORS.
WyndhamH. N. Hoste, Esq., 7, New-square, Lincoln’s Inn.
Frederick Perigal, Esq. (late Admiralty), Chalcots, Belsize Park, N.W.
John Tapson, Esq., Brighton.
William Power Trench. .Esq., Ealing, W.
W. L. Williams, Esq. (W. Williams and Son, Bread street, E.C.)
Bankers—London and County Bank (and Branches), Lombard-street,
London, E.C.
Solicitors—Learoyd and Learoyd, Albion Chambers, Moorgate-street,
London, E.C., and Huddersfield, Yorkshire
Auditot'—W. G. Goodlifie, Esq. (late Accountant-General, India Office),
*149, Palmerston-buildings, Old Broad-street, E.C.
General Managers—C. W. Pearce, F.S.S., and Joseph Freeman.
Head Offices—9, Queen’s-buildings, Mansion House, London, E.C.
Agencies—Manchester, Glasgow, Amsterdam, and Vienna.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
This Corporation has been formed for the purpose of transacting the
business of “ Re-Insurance” with Fire Insurance Companies.
Re-Insurance is a guarantee given by one Fire Insurance Company to
another to pay to it, in consideration of receiving a proportionate amount
of the premium, a portion of any loss it may incur under such of its policies
as are covered by the guarantee.
The remunerative nature of the business of carefully managed Fire
Insurance Companies is well-known to their Shareholders.
The returns made by order of Parliament, and other official documents,
show that their aggregate annual premium-income always exceeds by a
large amount the sums paid for claims.
The following summary, compiled from the published returns in 1873, of
72 companies, strikingly exhibits this profitable working :—
No.
Companies.
Income for
one year.
Claims
Paid.
Excess of
Income
over
Claims.
British 
United States.
Continental .
£
5,404,825
5,337,811
5,170,768
■ £
2,938,141
2,681,029
2.327,048
£
2,466,684
2,656,782
2,843,720
Balance available for dividend and expenses, £7,967,189.
The business of the Corporation being to re-insure a portion of the surplus
business of such companies, and receiving from them a premium income
exactly proportionate to the amount of business re-insured, it will share
proportionately in their profitable working.
The Corporation is already transacting a satisfactory and steadily increas¬
ing business; its premium income for the year 1875-6 being expected to
exceed £20,000.
The rate of profit that may be fairly anticipated is shown in the following
Table of the business position of the undermentioned Re-Insurance Com¬
panies. The Dividends paid by these for the last two years average 17£
and 22 per cent, respectively.
Name.
Premium
Income.
Excess of
Premium
Income
Over
Claims
Paid.
Dividends
Paid Last
2 Years of
Return.
Alliance of Vienna.,
Security  
Swiss * 
Vienna  
Magdeburg  
Pannoma  
Frankfurter 
Aachen     
Cologne ^ 
£
86,636
247,272
37,022
97,253
114,504
115,808
25,054
31,244
82,572
£
61,404
142 632
14,667
66,609
41,287
63,597
11,498
12,827
37,585
26§
16|
17
7f
20
9
3Sf
6
17*
33*
20
20
14
26*
13
41*
12
The Formation Expenses of the Corporation were unusually small, and
no Promotion Money has been paid.
Applications for Shares will be received at the London and County Bank,
Lombard Street, London, E.O., or at any of its branches ; or at the Offices
f the Corporation.
eJta
eJA»
VOJLUJVIE ^IX. jHUJVIBER SIXTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 16th, 1876.
Spntualisf H^tas^apr.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS:—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Eeduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, hut preserved for binding.
Oobrespondhnoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department. should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the'supply o/ 11 The Spiritualist','> in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be orderred of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Eochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Eichard Eoberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTEALIA. -
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. E. 0. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &o., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Gastlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Eiley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
Cl E M A L E MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
.all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Ofl ces—1, Fitzroy-square, W.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XXXI.
Some reiterated objections of mine, which have been
stated before, were finally answered thus. [Aug. 31,
1873:—]
We propose to speak to you on a subject of which
we have before treated, but not at large. You have
alleged, and it has frequently been said that the creed
we profess and the system of religion which we teach
are vague, shadowy, and impalpable. It has been said
that the effect of our teaching is to unsettle men’s
minds as to the old faith, without providing a new and
rational form of belief. Many of these objections we
have dealt with separately, but we have not yet at¬
tempted to set before you an exhaustive outline of the
religion which we desire to see rooted among men.
This we propose to do now, so far as it is possible.
We commence with God, the Supreme, All-Wise
Ruler of the universe, who is enthroned over all in
eternal calm, the Director and Judge of the totality of
creation. Before His Majesty we bow in solemn ado¬
ration. We have not seen Him, nor do we hope yet to
approach His presence. Millions of ages, as you count
time, must run their course, and be succeeded by yet
again myriads upon myriads ere the perfected spirit-—
perfected through suffering and experience—can enter
into the inner sanctuary to dwell in the presence of
the All-pure, All-holy, All-perfect God.
But though we have not seen Him, we know yet
more and more of the fathomless perfection of His
nature, through a more intimate acquaintance with-His
works. We know, as you cannot, the power and
wisdom, the tenderness and love of the Supreme. We
trace it in a thousand ways which you cannot see. We
feel it in a thousand forms which never reach your
lower earth. And while you, poor mortals, dogmatise
as to His essential attributes, and ignorantly frame for
yourselves a being like unto yourselves, we are content
to feel and to know His power as the operation of a
Wise and Loving and All-pervading Intelligence. His
government of the universe reveals Him to us as potent,
wise, and good. His dealings with ourselves we know
to be tender and loving.
The past has been fruitful of mercy and loving-kind-
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
182
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 16, 1875.
ness ; the present has been instinct with love and tender
■ considerations; into the future we do not pry. We are
content to trust it in the hands of One whose power
and love we have experienced. And we do not, as
curious mortals please themselves with imagining,
picture a future which has its origin in our own intel¬
ligence, and is disproved by each advancement in know¬
ledge. We trust Him too really to care to speculate.
We live for Him and to Him. We strive to learn and
do His will, sure that in so doing we shall benefit our¬
selves and all created beings whom we tend ; the while
we pay to Him the honour which is His due, and the
only homage which His Majesty can accept. We love
Him; we worship Him; we adore Him ; we obey
Him : but we do not question His plans, or pry into
His mysteries.
Of man we know more than we are permitted to
tell, as yet. We are not charged to gratify curiosity,
nor to open out to you views and speculations which
would but bewilder your mind. Of the origin of man
you may be content to know that the day will come
when we shall be able to tell you more certainly of the
spiritual nature, its origin and destiny; whence it came
and whither it is going. For the present you may
know that the theological story of a fall from a state of
purity to a state of sin, as usually detailed and accepted,
is misleading. Few, perhaps, even of those among you
who have pondered on the subject, have not given up
all attempts to reconcile with reason so distorted a
legend. You may better direct your attention for the
present to man’s condition as an incarnated spirit, and
seek to learn how progressive development, in obedience
to the laws which govern him, leads to happiness in the
present and advancement in the immediate future.
The far off spheres, into which only the refined and
purified can enter, you may leave in their seclusion. It
is not for mortal eye to gaze into their secrets. Suffi¬
cient that you know that they unfold their portals only
to the blessed ones, and that you and all may be
ranked within them after due preparation and de¬
velopment.
It is more important that we speak of man’s duty
and work in the earth-life. Man, as you know, is a
spirit temporarily enshrined in a body of flesh; a spirit
with a spiritual {body which is to survive its severance
from the earth-body, as one of your teachers has in¬
culcated rightly, though he erred in minor particulars.
This spiritual body it is the object of your training in
this sphere of probation to develop and fit for its life in
the sphere of spirit. That life, so far as it concerns
you to know, is endless. Ye cannot grasp what
eternity means. Sufficient now that we demonstrate
to you enduring existence,, and intelligence existing
after the death of the physical body.
This Being, temporarily enshrined in the body of
earth, we regard as a conscious, responsible intelligence,
with duties to perform, with responsibilities, with
capacities, with accountability, and with power of pro¬
gress or retrogression. The incarnated spirit has its
conscience, rude frequently and undeveloped, of in¬
herent right and wrong. It has its opportunities of
development, its degrees of probation, its phases of
training, and its helps in progression if it will use
them. Of these we have spoken before, and shall say
more hereafter. For the present we tell you of man’s
duty in the sphere of probation.
Man, as a responsible spiritual being, has duties
which concern himself, his fellow-man, and his God.
Your teachers have sufficiently outlined the moral
code which affects man’s spirit, so far as their know¬
ledge has extended, and has been communicable to you.
But beside and beyond what they have taught you lies
a wide domain. The influence of spirit upon spirit is
only now beginning to be recognised among men ; yet
therein lie some of the mightiest helps and bars to
human progress. Of this, too, you will learn more
hereafter ; but for the present we may sum up man’s
highest duty as a spiritual entity in the word Progress
—in knowledge of himself, and of all that makes for
spiritual development. The duty of man considered as
an intellectual being, possessed of mind and intelli¬
gence, is summed up in the word Culture in all its
infinite ramifications; not in one direction only, but in
all; not for earthly aims alone, but for the grand pur¬
pose of developing the faculties which are to be per¬
petuated in endless development. Man’s duty to him¬
self as a spirit incarnated in a body of flesh is Puritt
in thought, word, and act. In these three words. Pro¬
gress, Culture, Purity, we roughly sum up man’s duty
to himself as a spiritual, an intellectual, and a corporeal
being.
Bespecting the duty which man owes to the race of
which he is a unit, to the community of which he is a
member, we strive again to crystallize into one word
the central idea which should animate him. That
word is Charity. Tolerance for divergence of opinion ;
charitable construction of doubtful words and deeds;
kindliness in intercourse; readiness to help, without
desire for recompense; courtesy and gentleness of de¬
meanour ; patience under misrepresentation; honesty
and integrity of purpose, tempered by loving-kindness
and forbearance; sympathy with sorrow, mercy, pity,
and tenderness of heart; respect for authority in its
sphere, and respect 'for the rights of the weak and
frail: these and kindred qualities, which are the very
essence of the Christ-like character, we sum up in the
one word Charity, or Active Love.
As to the relation between man and his God, it
should be that which befits the approach of a being in
one of the lowest stages of existence to the Fountain of
Uncreated Light, to the great Author and Father of
all. The befitting attitude of spirit before God is typi¬
fied for you in the language of your sacred records when
it is said that the exalted ones veil their faces with
their wings as they bow before His throne. This in a
figure symbolizes the Reverence and Adoration which
best become the spirit of man. Reverence and awe,
not slavish fear. Adoring worship, not cowering, pros¬
trate dread. Mindful of the vast distance that must
separate God from man, and of the intermediary agen¬
cies which minister between the Most High and His
children, man should not seek to intrude himself into
the presence of the Supreme, least of all should he
obtrude his curiosity, and seek to pry into mysteries
which are too deep for angel-minds to grasp. Reve¬
rence, Adoration, Love ; these are the qualities that
adorn a spirit in its relation to its God.
Such, in vaguest outline, are ths duties which man
owes to himself, to his fellow, and to his God. They
may be filled in by future knowledge; but you will find
that they include within them those qualities which fit
a man for progress in knowledge, and render him a
good citizen and a model for imitation in all the walks
of life. If there be nothing said of that external and
formal duty which is made so much of by the Pharisaic
mind, both now and heretofore, it is not that we do not
April 16, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
183
recognise the importance of external acts. So long as
man is a physical being physical acts will be of import¬
ance. It is because we have no fear that sufficient
importance will not be attached to them that we have
not dwelt on this side of the question. We are con¬
cerned rather with spirit, and with the hidden spring,
which if it be working aright the external acts will be
duly done. We carry throughout the principle on
which we have always dealt with you, of referring you
hack to that which is your true self, and of urging you
to consider all you do as the outcome and external
manifestation of an internal spirit, which, when you
leave this sphere, will determine your future condition
of existence. This is the true wisdom; and in so far
as you recognise the spirit that animates everything,
that is the soul of all, the life and reality which under¬
lies Nature and Humanity, in all their several mani¬
festations, are you actuated by true wisdom.
We have more to say. For the present, farewell.
+ Ihpeeaiob.
A BUDGET OP ANCIENT DREAMS.
BT ST. GEORGE W. STOCK, B.A. (OXOX).
A chatty old anecdote-monger, named Valerius
Maximus, who lived in the reign of the Roman Em¬
peror Tiberius, has devoted a chapter of his work to
a collection of some curious cases of prevision in dreams,
both among his own fellow-countrymen and foreigners.
The Greeks and Romans were by no means so sceptical
with regard to the prophetic value of dreams as modern
enlightenment has rendered ourselves, and nearly all
the cases in question have found a place in the pages of
some of the gravest writers of antiquity. The Emperor
Augustus used to pay great attention both to his own
dreams and to those of others concerning himself. In
the spring he was in the habit of dreaming a great deal,
the images presented to his mind being then generally
of an alarming nature, but wholly illusory. During
the rest of the year his dreams were less frequent, and
at the same time more reliable. Augustus, unlike his
grand-uncle, Julius Caesar, was of a decidedly super¬
stitious turn of mind, and the man who wielded the
destiny of the world was immensely put out if he hap¬
pened to fit the left shoe on the right foot in the morn¬
ing. Still, the credijt he attached to dreams was justified
by experience; for, on the night before the battle of
Philippi, as the armies of the Republicans and Caesar¬
eans lay encamped in the plains, the image of Minerva
appeared in a dream to his physician Artorius, and bade
him warn Augustus not to let the illness under which
he was suffering prevent him from being present at the
action on the following day. Augustus complied with
the admonition, and had himself carried into the field
in a litter. The event proved the wisdom of this con¬
duct, for his camp was taken in a furious charge by
Brutus, and the bed which he had lately occupied was
riddled through by the weapons of the enemy, while
the sick general effected his escape to the wing com¬
manded by Antony.
Very different was the conduct and fate of his pre¬
decessor, Julius Caesar. On the night before the Ides
of March, against which he had been warned by the
augur Sparuina, his wife Calpurnia dreamt that her
husband lay stabbed in her arms, and so strong was the
impression upon her that she begged him not to attend
the Senate the next day. Caesar had the excuse of
illness for staying away, and might have complied
with his wife’s request if it had not been for the
contrary solicitations of Decimus Brutus, one of the
conspirators. Accordingly he acted on his avowed
principle that it was “better to die than be afraid.”
The story is well known to every reader of Shak-
speare.
The earlier annals of Rome afford a celebrated
instance of the part played by dreams in history. The
Latins, discontented with the autocracy of Rome, had
proposed that one of the two consuls and half the senate
should be chosen from among themselves—a scheme
preposterous to Roman ears. The result was a declar¬
ation of war upon the presumptuous allies. The Latins
were quite prepared for this method of arbitration, and
the two armies met near Capua. There both Roman
consuls had the same dream on the same night; a
figure of more than mortal height and majesty pre¬
senting itself to each of them, declaring that the
general of one side and the forces of the other were due
to the shades of the dead and mother Earth, and that
the victory would lie with the army whose general
would devote himself on its behalf. It was in vain
that the consuls, after comparing their experiences,
endeavoured to avert by sacrifices the visions of the
night. The answers of the augurs only tended to con¬
firm the portent given to themselves. So they made
an agreement that whichever of the two found his men
giving way in the battle should devote himself on
behalf of the Roman people, and made public proclama¬
tion of the whole circumstances of the case, that the
soldiers might not be dismayed at the fall of their
leader. The consuls were T^ Manlius Torquatus and
P. Decius Mus. When the day of action arrived the
auspices taken by Manlius were found favourable, as
were likewise those of Decius, except that the head of
the liver on the side denoting the Romans was cut off.
The will of the higher powers was thus clearly appa¬
rent, and in the engagement which followed, the left
wing, commanded by Decius, was unable to stand the
pressure of its opponents. Accordingly, Decius sum¬
moned the priest who attended the troops, and had
himself consecrated in due form as a victim to the gods.
The moment the ceremony was over, he flew like a
thunderbolt into the thickest of the enemy, carrying
destruction wherever he came, till he fell under a
shower of weapons. The fortune of the fight was
turned, and victory crowned the Roman arms.
Further back still in the chronicles of the Eternal
City we find another dream recorded, which, from the
public nature of the events connected with it, must
have exercised a powerful influence upon devout minds
at Rome. In passing, it may be remarked, that so
long as certain definite religious ideas command belief,
the supernatural invariably shapes itself in accordance
with them, thus intensifying the belief, without adding
anything to the grounds of it. This fact will have to
be recognised by the historian of religion who desires
to give a satisfactory account of the hold maintained
by obviously false religious notions upon the human
mind. In France, at the present time, the conservative
reaction, extending in the direction of religion as well
as of politics, has rendered possible many supernatural
attestations of Catholic doctrine. But we must return
to our old-world dreamers.
It was the morning of the day on which the games
were to be celebrated in the Roman Circus in the 444th
year, according to Macrobias, since the founding of the
city. All should have been peace and quiet at such a
184
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apkil 16, 1875.
season, for the games were in honour of the gods. But
the stillness of the morning was broken hy a Boman
householder named Aubronius Maximus, cruelly driving
a slave through the Circus, with a forked-shaped in¬
strument over his shoulders, under which it was
customary for offenders to he scourged to death. No
notice was taken of the transaction, and the games
were proceeded with as usual. Not long after, how¬
ever, Jupiter presented himself in a dream to a certain
plebeian, Tiberius Abinius, bidding him intimate to the
consuls the god’s disapproval of the unauthorised pre¬
lude to the Circensian Games, which were to be cele¬
brated over again, else grave danger would befall the
city. The man’s own obscure condition made him
shrink from obeying the command, unwisely, as it
proved; for his son died a few days after, and he was
himself seized with a severe illness. Then the god
appeared to him again, and asked the victim whether
he had been sufficiently punished for his hesitation.
Hereupon Abinius, by the advice of his friends, had
himself carried in a litter to the consuls, by whom he
was introduced to the Senate. To this body he laid
bare the whole facts of the case, and the astonishment
of his hearers was brought to a climax, when, at the
end of his recital, his health was suddenly restored to
him, and he returned home on foot.
After this excursion into the early years of Borne, it
is well to come back to more historical characters.
Cicero has set on record a prevision of his own in sleep,
which happened to him soon after his banishment from
the city. He had put up at a country-house near
Abinum, and, falling into a deep slumber, dreamt that
he was wandering through pathless and desert places.
Here he was met by his fellow-townsman, Marius, who
was arrayed as consul, and attended by a train of
lictors. Marius asked him why he looked so sad, and
wandered with such uncertain footsteps ; and on hear¬
ing the cause expressed great concern; but presently
grasped his hand, and directed one of the lictors to
lead Cicero to a temple he had himself built in his life¬
time, informing the banished man that there was hope
of better days in store for him there. It was in this
temple that the decree of the Senate was passed for the
recall of Cicero.
Not so happy was the glimpse into futurity accorded
to C. Gracchus. He had not yet entered upon the
tribuneship in which, following in the steps of his elder
brother Tiberius, he undertook the championship of the
people against the aristocracy, when the image of
Tiberius appeared to him in a dream, telling him that
he would certainly meet with a bloody end like his own,
and be thrown headlong from the Capitol. This dream
was heard by many persons at Borne before C. Gracchus
met with his destined end, and has been vouched for by
the cotemporary historian Coelius, a very careful
writer.
The next dream with which I purpose to present the
reader has less authority to recommend it, owing to a
discrepancy between the account given by Yalerius
Maximus, who ascribes it to Cassius of Parma, and
that of other writers, as Plutarch and Floras, who sub¬
stitute the name of Brutus. I follow the authority of
Yalerius Maximus, both because he lived much nearer
the time of the alleged occurrence, and because, Bratus
being the more celebrated person, the dream is more
likely to have got attached wrongly to his name. Of
Cassius of Parma little is known to us, except what we
gather from Horace, namely, that some poetical works
of his were held in high esteem. In the battle of
Actium he fought on the side of Mark Antony, and
after the rout of his party fled for refuge to Athens.
Scarcely had toil and anxiety given place to slumber
when he was terrified by the appearance by his bedside
of a huge dark man, with shaggy beard and wild hair ;
and on asking the stranger who he was, he received the
answer, “ Thine evil genius.” Starting from sleep in
terror, he called his slaves, and asked if they had seen
any one enter or leave the chamber. They replied that
no one had come near the place: so he retired to rest
again, but was disturbed by the same apparition. This
second visitation was too much for his nerves, and he
passed the rest of the night with the lamp lit and his
slaves in the room. Yery soon afterwards he was put
to death by the order of Augustus.
The last case which Yalerius has to record among
his own countrymen presents an instance of more
definite prevision. A show of gladiators was being
exhibited at Syracuse, and a Boman knight, named
Aterius Bufus, dreamt that he was stabbed to death by
a “ retiarius.” On the next day he related his dream
to those who sat near him at the spectacle. Presently
two gladiators were introduced into the arena quite
close to the place he occupied. One of them was of the
kind called “ mirmillo, the other a “ retiaruis,” so
named because it was part of his mode of fighting to
entangle his adversary in a net. On catching sight of
the face of the latter the dreamer wished to retire
immediately, declaring that he was the very man at
whose hands he had seen himself butchered. His
friends laughed the matter off, and the man, to his cost,
was induced to stay, for the retiarius drove his ad¬
versary close to the spot where the knight was sitting,
and in the heat of the combat missed his blow at the
mirmillo, but transfixed Aterius, who died immediately.
So much for dream-prophecy among the Bomans. It
now remains to bring forward a few instances of the
same thing among other ancient nations. Hannibal’s
dream foreshadowing the devastation of Italy has been
related at length by more than one writer. But we
cannot account it a clear case of prevision. For what
subject would be more likely to be uppermost in his
mind ?
Whether the dream of Alexander the Great is to be
regarded as more satisfactory depends on our accepting
or rejecting the prevalent report that he was poisoned
by Cassander, the son of his general Antipater. At all
events he dreamt that such was his end. But when,
shortly afterwards, Cassander was introduced to him,
and he heard that he was the son of Antipater, he
merely quoted a Greek verse in disparagement of
dreams, the generosity of his nature not allowing him
to suspect the son of a faithful servant on such airy
grounds.
The poet Simonides had more fortunate experience
of dreams. Once on a voyage he thrust in his ship to
shore, and finding a corpse lying on the sand, piously
gave it burial. That night its late inmate appeared to
him in a dream, and recommended him not to put out
to sea next day. Simonides trusted the dream in pre¬
ference to his ship; and all who did set sail were over¬
taken by a storm and drowned in his sight. Simonides
in gratitude gave his preserver a more enduring monu¬
ment in verse than the one he had erected to him on
the desert shore.
When Dionysius, the famous despot of Syracuse, was
still in a private station, a noble lady of Himera,
April 16, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
185
another Sicilian city, had one night a remarkable
dream, which she related to many persons the next
day. She imagined herself to be conducted by a guide
through heaven ; and under the feet of Zeus, as he sat
on his throne, she was shown a strong man with
swarthy, freckled visage, lying bound with chains of
iron, as the thunderbolts are pictured to be. Asking
her guide who the youth was, she was told he was the
evil destiny of Italy and Sicily, and when released
from his chains would be the ruin of many cities.
Afterwards, when Dionysius was entering Himera,
among the crowd that poured out to meet him was this
lady, who, the moment she caught sight of his face,
declared he was the very man she had seen in her
dream. The story reached the tyrant’s ears, and the
dreamer was brought to an untimely end. The mother
of the same Dionysius, shortly before his birth, dreamt
that she was delivered of a small satyr; and the dream-
interpreters pronounced this to mean that her son
would be the most illustrious and the most powerful
of the Greek race. This case, it will be seen, is not
strictly one of prevision; the prevision, if there was
any, was put into it by the interpreters.
The history of Syracuse is connected with another
semi-prophetic dream. When the Carthaginian general
Hamilcar was blockading it, he was cheered by a vision
which assured him he would dine in the city the next
day. He did, it was true; but it was as a captive, not
as a conqueror.
Alcibiades dreamt that he saw himself wrapped in
his mistress’s cloak; and before long he was lying dead,
with no other covering on his corpse.
Such instances as this and the foregoing might, not
without reason, be ascribed to a fanciful credulity. But
the following dream, if true, places beyond a doubt
the power of the human spirit in sleep to transcend its
ordinary faculties of perception. “ Yes, if true,” the
sceptic will scornfully exclaim; and we are bound to
confess that we have it only as one among many anec¬
dotes recorded by our author, Valerius Maximus, and by
Cicero, in his Treatise on Divination. But at the
present day many instances, no less distinct and re¬
markable, of apprehension of distant and anticipation of
future events by means of dreaming, are recorded on
evidence which it is impossible to dispute. The proba¬
bility, therefore, lies in favour of the truth of a story
which is paralleled by undoubted facts, even if the
evidence on which it rests is not such as to satisfy a
critical investigator. But let us get to our dream, with
which I shall conclude this paper.
Two bosom friends, Arcadians, who were travelling
together, came to Megara, where one put up for the
night at the house of an acquaintance, while the other
betook himself to an inn. While the former lay asleep,
his comrade appeared to him, begging his assistance
against the designs of the landlord, and saying that, by
coming quickly, he might save him from imminent peril.
The dreamer started from his sleep, and, with the in¬
stinct of friendship, got on the way to the inn, when
the absurdity of the situation proved too much for him,
and he went back to bed. Scarcely, however, had
sleep regained its hold upon him before his comrade
reappeared, covered with wounds, and besought him,
as he had neglected to save his life, at least not to
refuse to avenge his death; he had been murdered by
the landlord, and his corpse was at that moment being
carried out to the city gate under a cart-load of dung.
Thinking that this second vision must be something
more than imagination, the Arcadian ran to the gate,
found the cart he had seen in his dream, and succeeded
in bringing the villanous innkeeper to condign punish¬
ment.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION SOIREE.
On Wednesday, last week, the usual monthly soiree of the
British National Association of Spiritualists was held in the
small hall, St. George’s Hall, Regent-street, London. An influ¬
ential body of friends attended, including Mr. and Mrs. Martin
R. Smith, Mr. A. Joy, Mrs. George Neville and the lady who
passed through the remarkable spiritual experiences described
in Mr. Dunphy’s article in this journal entitled “ The
Mysterious Man,” Mrs. Wiseman, Mrs. Frederica Showers,
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze, Mr. N. F. I)awe, Mrs. W. Tebb, Mrs.
Elgie Corner (Florence Cook), Major S. R. I. Owen, F.L.S.,
Mr. A. Leighton of Liverpool, Captain J. James of Tottenham,
Mr. Keningale Cook, B.A., Mrs. Keningale Cook, Mr. and Mrs.
E. D. Rogers, Miss M. Rogers and Mr. Rogers, junr., Mrs.
William Crookes, Mrs. Humphries, Mr. Henry Crookes, Mrs.
Woodforde, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. and Miss Shorter, Mr.
Clifford Smith, Mr. Glendining of Glasgow, Mr. and Mrs. F.
M. Parkes, Miss Malvina Claxton, Miss Clarke, Miss Ellen
Williamson, Miss Amelia Williamson, Mr. and Miss Withall;
Mr. E. P. Ashton, Mrs. Earl Bird, Miss Houghton, Mrs. and
Miss Sexton, and many others.
Nearly the whole of the evening was spent in friendly con¬
versation, with occasional music and singing. The animated
countenances of those present showed that the plan of reducing
speech-making to a minimum was a wise one to adopt at these
meetings, which are intended to be of a social character, and
to give friends opportunities of becoming acquainted with each
other.
In the course of the evening Mr. Martin Smith announced
that the National Association of Spiritualists had succeeded
in furnishing its new reading and seance rooms, at 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London. Although the
reading-room was furnished, he was sorry to say that it re¬
quired a supply of books, so that at first the stock would be
small, and there would be little to read but newspapers.
Books were sadly wanted, so those friends who had books in
duplicate on the subject of Spiritualism would do well to
supplement the resources of the Association by liberally con¬
tributing such works, which would be thankfully received.
The room would be opened in a week or a fortnight; he could
not tell the terms because they had not yet been fixed by the
Council, but as the expenses had been considerable sub¬
scriptions would be required, and the amounts would be
announced in The Spiritualist newspaper, in the report of the
next meeting of the Council of the Association. He had
little else to say. There were rooms on the premises which
would be valuable for the most useful purpose of holding
seances, and the terms on which they would be let would also
be published next week.
The musical programme was well sustained by Miss Malvina
Claxton and Miss Clarke, who favoured the company with
two duets ; by Miss Sexton and Mrs. E. Corner, whose sing¬
ing was received with much applause; and by Miss Kate
Cook, who performed a solo on the pianoforte. Some curious
and interesting spirit-drawings were exhibited, given through
the mediumship of a distinguished member of the Asso¬
ciation. They are now on view at the new rooms, 88, Great
Russell-street. A frame of M. Buguet’s spirit-photographs
was also exhibited.
Me. Jot’s "Visit to America.—Mr. Algernon Joy,
honorary secretary to the British National Association of
Spiritualists, left Liverpool on private business last Saturday,
en route for the United States. Mr. Joy is an engineer, a
gentleman of culture and high education, who has done much
important public work in connection with Spiritualism in this
country, and is thoroughly trusted by English Spiritualists;
he is the most influential English Spiritualist who has left these
shores for America for many years, and his record of what he
may observe in connection with Spiritualism in the United
States, will be read with interest on this side of the Atlantic,
and regarded both as reliable and of historical value. He will
first go straight through to California, and afterwards spend
four months in different parts of the United States before re¬
turning. Miss Kislingbury announced at the Council meeting
of the British National Association of Spiritualists last Mon¬
day night, that she had received a letter from bum announcing
his arrival at Queenstown.
186
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 16, 1875.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Monday night a Council meeting of the British National
Association of Spiritualists was held at its offices, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, opposite the western wing of the
British Museum. Mr. Alexander Calder occupied the chair.
Present:—Mr. Edmund D. Rogers, Mrs. Thomas Everitt, Mr.
George King, Mr. Keningale Cook, Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr.
Regan, Mrs. Frederica Showers, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Miss
Houghton, Mr. Joseph Freeman, and Miss E. Kislingbury,
the secretary.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
CORRESPONDENCE—TRANSLATION OF WORKS ON SPIRITUALISM
INTO ORIENTAL LANGUAGES.
The Secretary read a letter from M. Constant, of Smyrna,
announcing that he was about to remove to Geneva, and to
form an establishment there for the translation of works on
Spiritualism into oriental languages—an undertaking which
he hoped the Association would carry on after his death.
The Secretary next read a letter from Dr. Hitchman, of
Liverpool, accepting a seat on the Council of the Association.
The Secretary next read a letter from Mr. W. Dixon, of
Camden-road, strongly censuring some recent newspaper abuse
of the National Association, and raising his subscription to
the Association in consequence.
Miss Kislingbury said that she had received many letters
from country members of the Council of the Association, who
said that they did not require notices of ordinary meetings of
the Council to be sent to them, because the notices in The
Spiritualist newspaper were sufficient; and the Association,
therefore, need not incur the unnecessary expense of printing
and postage.
A letter from Mr. Harrison was next read, suggesting that
a monthly stock account should be drawn up by the Secretary
and examined and presented to the Council by the Finance
Committee, so that all the furniture and other stock possessed
by the Association, and any changes in it, should come before
the Council at each meeting.
Miss Kislingbury said that she was already making an in¬
ventory.
Mr. Rogers asked Mr. Harrison to draw up the form in which
he proposed the stock account should be presented, and to
send it in before the next Council meeting.
The Secretary read a letter from the Baroness von Yay,
saying that she intended to present her works on Spiritualism
to the British National Association of Spiritualists, and
would shortly forward them via Mr. Harrison.
A letter from Miss Blackwell stated that she was about to
present her likeness framed, to the National Association.
NEW MEMBERS.
A letter was read from Mr. and Mrs. J. Murray Spear, of
Philadelphia, accepting honorary membership of the Associa¬
tion.
Dr. T. L. Ditson, of New York, also wrote that he deemed it
a great honour to be invited to become an honorary member,
and he accepted the position accordingly.
M. Clavairoz, French Consul-General at Trieste, wrote, ac¬
cepting honorary membership of the Association.
The Secretary next read a letter from Captain J. James of
Tottenham, accepting a seat on the Council, and making a
donation of interesting books to the library.
Mrs. Everitt said that Dr. Hitohman had written to Mr.
Everitt, asking to be elected a vice-president, but that Mr.
Everitt was not present that evening.
Dr. Hitchman was then elected a vice-president.
Mrs. and Miss Cutmore, Mr. Archibald Lament, and M.
Brocard were elected ordinary members of the Association.
There were no resignations.
It was then resolved that the following gentlemen should
be invited to become honorary members of the Association:
Dr. N. B. Wolfe, of Cincinnati, U.S.; Mr. G. Brown, editor
of the Spiritual Scientist, Boston, U.S.; the Rev. Mr. Watson,
editor of the Spiritual Magazine, Memphis, U.S.; also the
editor of Common Sense, San Francisco.
Mr. Haxby’s resignation of the post of assistant secretary,
which he occupied until the 29th of March last, was accepted.
FINANCE COMMITTEE’S REPORT.
The report of the Finance Committee showed a balance in
hand of £99 Is. Id., and recommended the payment of ac¬
counts to the amount of £30 8s. lid.; it further estimated the
outstanding liabilities of the Association at £10.
The report was adopted on the motion of Mr. Martin
Smith, seconded by Mr. E. T. Bennett.
PROCEEDINGS AT COUNCIL MEETINGS.
Mr. Martin Smith said that he did not wish to push on the
proposed rules of which he had given notice, relating to pro¬
ceedings at Council meetings, so he would ask the permission
of the Council to withdraw the same; at the same time he
thought that business would be facilitated if there were no
general conversation; he further thought that all remarks
should be addressed as much as possible to the chair. When
the time of the Council was less occupied by urgent busi¬
ness these matters might be reconsidered, and the whole
question of bye-laws examined.
Mr. Smith accordingly withdrew his motion by consent.
Miss Kislingbury said that she had had a letter from Mr.
Martin Smith, suggesting that just at present the Council
meetings should be held more frequently; she thought this to
be necessary, because during the next two months so much
work was to be done.
Mr. George King said that if any ordinary business were
transacted at other than monthly meetings while the present
bye-laws were in force, all business transacted thereat might
be called in question, which would be a serious matter ; the
present bye-laws would have to be modified after the Associa¬
tion was enrolled, he would therefore propose that they be
suspended until the Council found it expedient to adopt new
ones, and until after the enrolment of the Articles of As¬
sociation.
This was carried unanimously.
LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC DEGREES.
Mr. Martin R. Smith moved, “ that all letters denoting the
possession of honorary, scientific, literary, or university
degrees or titles shall, when not conferred by any British
Society, be followed by the name of the country and town to
which they belong, before insertion in any printed document,
circular, advertisement or placard of the British National
Association of Spiritualists.” He added that such letters some¬
times denoted great ability, and were marks of great honour
when conferred by certain British Universities and scientific
societies, whereas the very same letters might sometimes be
obtained from foreign societies either for a small payment, or
without the possession of much ability by the person who
obtained them. Permission to use such foreign titles would
not only be unjust to those who possess the real marks of
honour, but would do harm to the Association in literary and
scientific circles wheie the said foreign titles would be
recognised in its printed documents.
The motion was seconded by Mr. E, T. Bennett and carried
unanimously.
FURNISHING THE NEW OFFICES.
Mr. E. D. Rogers said that the Furnishing Committee had no
report to present, because some of the bills had not been sent
in, and because the whole of the necessary articles had not yet
been ordered; all he would announce was that the work of
furnishing was in progress.
Mr. Martin Smith said that the books in the library should
be placed under glass, as suggested by Mr. Charles Blackburn,
because if they were placed on open shelves and not in book¬
cases, they would get dirty.
TERMS OF ADMISSION TO THE NEW READING-ROOM.
Mr. E. D. Rogers said that it was proposed to adopt one
scale of charges for admission to the reading-room to members
of the Association, and another scale to non-members. He
would read the recommendations of the Offices Committee
about the terms of admission, and ask the Council to deal
with each item as it was read. The first recommendation
was that all members of the Association who subscribe not
less than £1 Is. annually to its funds shall have the use of the
reading-room and library without further charge.
This was moved by Mr. Rogers, seconded by Mr. Martin
Smith, and passed unanimously.
Mr. George King remarked that at first there would be so
few papers and books that the public might think that amount
of subscription too large.
Mr. Rogers replied that the amount also included member¬
ship of the Association; also that the library would soon
grow larger, and that people would throng the reading-room,
more especially in the evening, for the purpose of meeting
each other for conversation and the considering questions of
interest in relation to Spiritualism.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
187
Apeil 16, 1875.
Mr. Bogers then moved that quarterly tickets to the
reading-room and library should he issued to members of the
Association for five shillings, and that the monthly tickets
should be two shillings and sixpence, these terms not to include
subscription for membership.
This was seconded by Mr. Martin Smith, and passed
unanimously.
Mr. Bogers then moved that the terms of admission of non¬
members should be £1 10s. annually, or 10s. quarterly, or 5s.
monthly.
This was passed unanimously.
It was further resolved that occasional visits to the reading-
room might be made without charge at the discretion of the
secretary.
This likewise was passed unanimously.
Mr. Bogers next moved that newspapers and magazines
shall be [placed in the reading-room and be accessible to all
the readers, but that the books in the library shall be issued
on the system adopted in the British Museum—that is to say,
each reader who wants a book shall give a written request for it to
the secretary, and be responsible for the book until he returns
it, when his ticket will he given back to him. It was desirable
that this rule should be rigidly carried out. The books of the
Association were not to be removed from the premises, at all
events while the library was small, otherwise people would
come there to read, and find no books on the premises, which
would he disappointing.
These regulations were also passed unanimously.
It was then moved by Mr. E. T. Bennett, seconded, and
passed, “ That the Council of the British National Association
of Spiritualists appreciates the labours of, and hereby tenders
its thanks to, the following friends, who have done or who are
doing good honorary public work for the cause of Spiritualism,
and requests that they will each accept a free ticket for the
year 1875 to its reading-room and library—Mr. and Mrs. T.
Bly ton, also Mr. and Mrs. Wilks, of the Dalston Association;
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Hunt, and Mr. Charles White, of the
Marylebone Association; Mr. and Mrs. B. Cogman ;. Mr. and
Mrs. B. Pearce, and Mr. Barber, of the St. John’s Association;
the Honorary Secretary and Honorary Assistant-Secretary of
the Brixton Society of Spiritualists; Mr. and Mrs. W. Wal¬
lace ; Mr. and Mrs. Bullock.”
It was next unanimously resolved that the corresponding
and honorary members of the Association shall have free ad¬
mission to the library and reading-room.
ROOMS FOR SEAHCES.
Mr. Bogers moved that the terms on which the Association
shall let its seance room, at the discretion of the Secretary,
shall be 7s. 6d. per night, or when taken for a series of four or
more nights, 4s. each evening. He also proposed that the
room shall not be let to any public mediums, not only because
if one medium could give seances on the premises it would
cause jealousies among others who could not get a room
thereon, but because if the public could get admission to
seances on the premises on payment, there might sometimes
he disturbances ; the police also could get admission to public
seances, and if a medium were found playing tricks, or if a
vexatious and unfounded charge of imposture were brought
against one of them, the Association might be charged with
having to do with persons who obtained money under false
pretences, which would not be pleasant. Therefore, he would
suggest that the room should be let only at the discretion of
the Secretary to private individuals, who would engage their
own mediums, the hirers of the room not to be allowed ta
advertise their seances, and not to make any charge for admis¬
sion at the doors. Of course there would be no harm in a few
private individuals clubbing together to pay a medium, and to
hire one of the rooms of the Association in which to hold a
seance.
Mr. Bennett thought the suggested line of action to he a
very good one, and that it had better he left to the discretion
of the Secretary to carry out the proposed principles^
It was then resolved that the method of letting rooms pro¬
posed by Mr. Bogers should be adopted.
Mr. Bogers said that Dr. Davies had applied for a private
room on the premises, and had misunderstood a remark made
by him (Mr. Bogers) at a previous Council meeting; further,
Dr. Davies supposed that the Council had endorsed and was
answerable for his (Mr. Bogers’s) remarks, which was alto¬
gether a mistake.
Mr. Martin Smith said that the Association did not yet knew
what rooms it would have to spare, nor for what purpose they
might be required; so before letting them for priyate purposes.
it would be better to wait for a year, and to forego any small
additional income which might be derived from the adoption
of a different course.
Mr. George King said that the Council had already passed a
resolution that it would not let any of its rooms just yet, and
this had been done quite irrespectively of any misunderstand¬
ing between Mr. Bogers and Dr. Davies.
PERIODICALS AND BOOKS.
It was then resolved that the following periodicals, not con¬
nected with Spiritualism, should be taken in regularly, and
placed upon the reading-room table :—The Quarterly Journal
of Science, The Fortnightly Review, The Athenaeum, The Spec~
tutor and Nature.
It was resolved unanimously that the reading-room should
fie opened on and after next Monday from 10.30 a.m. to
10.30 p.m. daily.*
Mr. Martin Smith asked why friends should not lend books
on Spiritualism to the National Association Library, until the
Association had more funds to enlarge its stock; he thought
that perhaps many Spiritualists had books which they would
be willing to lend for a time, but not to part with altogether.
Aid of this kind would he useful, and he hoped that the public
would act upon the suggestion.
THE ENROLMENT OF THE ASSOCIATION.
Mr. E. D. Bogers announced that the enrolment of the
Association for the limitation of the liability of its members
had not yet been completed, because Mr. Webster Glynes had
been commissioned to add one or two clauses about the elec¬
tion of members of the Council, but these clauses had grown
to five or six, which he (Mr. Bogers) also thought to be neces¬
sary, consequently the Begistration Committee had waited for
another Council meeting, to ask sanction for the introduction
of the said clauses. According to the regulations previously
passed, the Council might elect vice-presidents from among
persons who had not been appointed by the members of the
Association to serve upon the Council; hut as this course
might be thought unjust to the public, the Begistration Com¬
mittee recommended that the Council should only have power
to elect vice-presidents from among its own members. Sup¬
posing the public to elect less than the complement of one
hundred members of Council, the Council would have the
power of electing others to fill up the vacancies, provided the
fixed limit of one hundred were not exceeded. Every member
of the Association was eligible to be elected a member of
Council, if nominated in writing, fourteen days before the
annual meeting, the said nomination to be sent in to the
secretary. The new clauses recommended for adoption by
the Begistration Committee to be added to the articles of the
Association, were then read by Mr. Bogers, and adopted
unanimously.
Mr. Bogers announced that at the first annual general
meeting, which would come off next month, the whole of the
members of the Council would retire, and were eligible for
re-election. At subsequent annual meetings a portion only of
the members of the Council would retire in rotation.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
Mr. Martin Smith announced that the Essays Committee
had settled the regulations under which competition could take
place for the gold medal of the Association, and that the par¬
ticulars had been sent to The Spiritualist newspaper for
publication.
It was then resolved that a short advertisement announcing
that the National Association offers gold medals for prize
essays on Spiritualism, should he inserted in the Times, the
Daily Telegraph, the A thenceum, and Nature. The Secretary
was instructed to draw up the said advertisements to be
inserted once in each of the journals mentioned.
As many legal points may have to be considered before the
Association is enrolled by the Board of Trade, it was resolved
that the Begistration Committee should continue its work and
see the matter through, so as to take difficult and responsible
work off the shoulders of the Secretary. The Begistration
Committee was also requested to instruct the Secretary as to
what steps should be taken about the annual general meeting
in May. It was due to he held on the third Wednesday in
May, but it was proposed that it should only be formally
called for that day, all business to be then adjourned until the
25th of May, because then the members could have the use of
the Co-operative Hall for the purpose, without additional
expense, since the hall on that day would be in the hands of
the Bazaar Committee.  
* But closed oa Sundays, of course, we suppose ?—Ed.
188
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 16, 1875.
THE NEXT SOIREE.
It was resolved that the next monthly soiree, should be held
at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, in the rooms
of Ihe Association; there would be music in one room, public
speaking in another, tea in another, and so on. This course
would also help to make the new premises well known to
Spiritualists and their friends.
Mr. E. T. Bennett said that while the bazaar was being held
at the Co-operative Hall, he thought that there ought to be
some demonstration to which members of the Association
could invite their friends. He would propose that the Bazaar
Committee should arrange that a soiree should be held in the
Co-operative Hall on the Thursday evening, during the time
of the holding of the bazaar.
VOTES or THANKS.
Special votes of thanks were passed to Mr. Charles Black¬
burn and Mr. Martin R. Smith for recent large subscriptions
to the National Association of Spiritualists. Also to Captain
James, Mr. Keningale Cook, the Baroness von Yay, Miss
Blackwell, and Mr. Terry for donations of books or subscrip¬
tions.
It was further resolved that the next meeting of the Council
should be held next Wednesday night.
The proceedings then closed.
A TEST MATERIALISATION SEANCE.
A. materialised spirit walking about with her medium
—weighing a materialised spirit.
The following letter from the Banner of Light records
a most remarkable seance, and after examining the testi¬
mony in search of its weak points, we would ask who
is Mr. T. P. Price, that the editor should give his evi- |
dence the prominence of large type ? Is he known as
a reliable witness? And why does he not state the
amount of likeness between the medium and the
spirit?-—
To the Editor of the (f Banner of Light.”
When, one year ago, I sent you some account of the
wonderful materialisations of spirit forms through the
mediumship of Anna Stewart, as witnessed by me at
the seance rooms of Dr. Allen Pence, at Terre Haute,
Ind., I little dreamed of the wonderful results in the
perfection of their work to which the spirit-band con¬
trolling her were destined to attain. At that time I
gave a specific account of the strong test conditions
under which the medium was placed by sceptics and
investigators, and the highly convincing and satisfactory
manifestations then produced.
No matter how exacting the test conditions imposed
by those seeking indubitable proof of spirit communion,
the results continued to he uniformly satisfactory, the
manifestations continuing to vary at each seance. Con¬
fidence was thus firmly established in the medium, and
unless sceptics from a distance were present, the tying
of the medium was dispensed with, the spirits at the
same time announcing that they themselves would form
conditions sufficiently satisfactory to all. This promise,
as will be shown, was abundantly fulfilled.
The seance—a general description of which is here
given—was held in the seance rooms above mentioned,
where some thirty-five individuals were assembled.
The medium, dressed in some plain, drab-hued material,
entered the cabinet, completely isolated from every¬
thing which could have been made accessory to collusion
or trickery, and after the music-box had kept up the
harmony for about half an hour, the manifestations
began.
The seance room on this occasion was more highly
lluminated than at any previous time during material¬
isations, and the spirits seemed particularly pleased,
while communicating with me, that they had been
enabled to appear in a light so strong that all things
could be clearly distinguished. Each feature of the
spirit’s face, and indeed of the countenances of all pre¬
sent, could be distinctly seen.
The first intimation that the materialisation was pro¬
gressing was a partial opening of the cabinet door, and
we were favoured with a glimpse of the spirit, who
immediately closed it. It was opened again, and we
had a full view of the spirit, appearing in the form of
an interesting young woman in low neck and short
sleeves. Her white garment extended about half way
below the knee, displaying a neat foot and ankle, her
head being covered by a white turban. We had only
time for one view, when the cabinet door was again
closed.
Again the door was opened by this visitant from the
mystic regions beyond the grave, and the spirit this
time came boldly forth, approaching very nearly to the
first row of spectators. I noticed now that her feet
were encased in a dainty pair of black slippers, and also
that her waist was girdled by a belt of the same hue.
She ventured a word of inquiry as to how the audience
liked the materialisation, and asked what they thought
of 'her slippers, stating that she made them herself.
“We will bring out the medium to-night,” said she,
and returned to the cabinet.,
A few moments elapsed, when the doors of the cabi¬
net were thrown open, and the spirit again appeared,
holding the medium by the hand, who was entranced
by an Indian spirit calling herself “ Minnie,” and who
frequently spoke at the opening of the seance. Both
spirit and medium advanced from the cabinet, now
vacated by all things visible save the chair on which the
medium previous to this had been seated. Said the
spirit, “ Can you now all see the medium, and distin¬
guish us both clearly ? Are you all satisfied now that
there is no deception about this ?” Both spirit and
medium remained standing in front of the cabinet for
some minutes, the former answering questions, and
asking that all should fully satisfy themselves of the
identity of the medium, and that they should closely
scrutinise the features of each !
This remarkable seance demonstrated to me the vast
progress accomplished by the spirit-world on this plane
of startling phenomena since the electrical experiments
to which Mr. Crookes of England subjected the medium,
Florence Cook. In that case, had it been possible for
the medium to have appeared with the spirit, the elec¬
trical experiments resorted, to that a separate’identity
of spirit and medium might be demonstrated beyond a
doubt, would not have been thought necessary.
Observe, then, this remarkable fact: both spirit and
mediu m (the latter entranced) in a clear, satisfying light,
walking hand in hand from the wide-open cabinet, the
latter isolated from all things, the light thrown completely
around it, and containing nothing save the chair which
the medium had occupied, and there remaining as long
as desired in view of all!
After the lapse of about three minutes the spirit,
| still holding the medium’s hand, returned to the cabinet.
I have now to speak of a very remarkable and con¬
vincing test, which is neither more nor less than weigh¬
ing the immortal remnant of mortals. A common plat¬
form scale had been provided, and the voice of the spirit
asked that it be placed in front of the cabinet, which
was done accordingly. The spirit again came from the
THE SPIRITUALIST.
189
April 16, 1875.
cabinet, but tbis time her white dress extended quite
to her feet, and her arms were covered by a pair of
sleeves, her former abbreviated wardrobe having been
lengthened doubtless by the same mysterious process
by which it had been originally “spun.” The spirit
having stepped upon the scale, one of the spectators
was requested to weigh her. A gentleman volunteered,
and “ ninety pounds” was announced as the result.
The spirit then stepped from the scale, but requested to
be weighed again, remarking, as she took her place a
second time, “ Now I am coming down on it heavy.”
The result, as announced this time, was “ one hundred
and fourteen pounds.” She asked to be weighed a third
time, and this time the result was announced as “four¬
teen 'pounds !” after which she became so light that she
could not be weighed by the scale!
In answer to a query, she stated that she became
lighter or heavier by means of will power. The spirit
then returned to the cabinet with the remark, “ I am
losing myself.”
Upon the reappearance of the spirit, I requested that
she should take my hand, which she did. I then made
several queries, among which were the following:—
“ Where did you die ?” She answered, ** In Quincy,
Illinois.” Said I, “What is your name?” “Belle
Burgess.” “How did you find the medium?” “I
knew her in Quincy, before I passed over.” “How
old were you?” “Fifteen years.” “ Why do you not
permit other spirits to materialise ?” “ They have' not
learned how, and we wish to develops this Katie King
business as far as possible; then we will give the others
a chance.”
The spirit occupied fully an hour and a half at this
seance. During almost all the time she was in full
view of all the spectators. I chronicle the materialisations
at Dr. Pence’s seance rooms through the mediumship
of Anna Stewart, with their attendant circumstances as
far beyond what I have ever before seen, and fully
equal to anything of the kind I have ever known re¬
corded. It is worth a trip across the Atlantic to receive
such satisfaction from the world of spirits.
Mrs. Anna Stewart has been giving seances at Terre
Haute, Ind., for a period of over two years, during
which time she has proven herself to be a lady above
the imputation of trickery. Theodore F. Price.
Monon, Ind., March 4th, 1875.
Mr. Epes Sargent has been dangerously ill, but it is
pleasing to state that he is now convalescent.
Mrs. Boss-Church (Florence Marryatt) has just re¬
turned to London, after the delivery of a highly successful
series of public readings in various large towns in Ireland.
The Influence of the Stage.—A gradual change is
coming over^the spirit of the stage, and plays nowadays in
not a few instances, display a deeper meaning and more useful
purpose than was the case in the past generation, which is all
the more gratifying, because the theatre is a powerful educa¬
tional agent. Miss Ada Cavendish has introduced at Charing
Cross Theatre a remarkable and exciting piece by Mr. Wilkie
Collins, entitled “ The New Magdalen ” ; it has given offence
to some of the more frigid of the orthodox, but nevertheless
draws large audiences; the general teaching of the piece is,
that the eternal condemnation of society should not fall upon
one devoted head for a single false step in life, and that the
practising of Christian precepts is infinitely superior to the
preaching thereof. This is as proved by the example of a
radical curate, who throws a respectable country district into
a state of anarchy, by disputing that its agricultural labourers
lived as he first found them there, under a heaven-sent dis¬
pensation ; he also fell into disgrace, not exactly because he
was caught vulgarly whistling in the street by his bishop, but
because, instead of its being a saoredjmelody, “ it was an ope¬
ratic tune with which his lordship was perfectly familiar.”
THE BAZAAR OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Arrangements for the bazaar are progressing favourably.
Several persons, who are not able to send articles for sale,
have forwarded contributions in money, for furnishing the
stalls, or paying attendant expenses. Mr. Mylne, of India,
has contributed £10; Mrs. Tebb, £l Is.; Mrs. Showers, £1;
Mr. J. C. Ferguson, 10s.; a lady, £5. Miss Anna Blackwell
has also offered to help in the same manner.
The Committee particularly wish it to be understood that
they do not call upon ladies to take the entire charge of a
stall unless they should so desire. The articles should be
sent in to 38, Great Russell-street, not later than the 21st
May, or earlier, if possible; each article should be ticketed
with an average price, which would be subject to change, if
thought desirable, by the Committee. The articles will then
be divided among the various stalls, of which ladies who do
not desire to furnish their own will be asked to take charge
during one day. This will give many the opportunity of help¬
ing, who could not otherwise undertake the task.
It is desired to form a good collection of spirit-drawings and
paintings, for exhibition, or for sale, if desired. On those
sold, part of the profit would revert to the sender, with a
commission to the benefit of the Association, as might be pre¬
viously arranged with the secretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38,
Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MR. MORSE IN AMERICA.
BUST HABITS IN NEW YORK—VISIT TO MR. FOSTER, THE TEST
MEDIUM—INTERVIEW WITH MRS'. WOODHULL—VISIT TO BOSTON
AND MR. LUTHER COLBY—SEVERE WEATHER—RAILWAY TRA¬
VELLING IN AMERICA—VISIT TO BANGOR, STATE OF MAINE—
PROLONGATION OF MR. MORSE’S STAY IN AMERICA—FREEDOM
OF THOUGHT IN THE UNITED STATES—SPIRITUALISM AND
THEOLOGICAL DOGMAS.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—Some considerable time has elapsed since I last wrote
you, and as you were kind enough to favour my communica¬
tion with a place- in your columns, I venture to send you
another one, and ask similar consideration. The Spiritualist
reaches me pretty regularly; I peruse its contents with much
interest; and I am pleased to see thereby that our cause is
still alive at “home,” and that matters are progressing satis¬
factorily.
Having taken considerable interest in the British National
Association of Spiritualists, I am also much interested in the.
reports of its proceedings printed in your paper, and I trust
now that the Association has obtained a home, it will grow
into the organisation it is intended it should be. If I am not
at home, I trust its officials will remember that I do not forget
them. I think the periodical soirees the Council has started are
eminently useful as a means of uniting people, or at least of
making them better acquainted with each other.
Mrs. Morse writes me of the kindness of the secretaries of
the National Association, in sending her tickets for these
meetings; she describes the pleasant time spent at them by
all, and enlarges upon the enjoyment they give her. I thank
the secretaries for their consideration, and look forward to the
time when I may accompany Mrs. Morse to similar gatherings
and be with you once again.
Since my last letter my experiences have been numerous,
varied, and considerably extended. Taking matters on the
whole, I am not a little delighted with the New World.
After concluding my engagement in Philadelphia, whence I
wrote you last time, I travelled eastwards. Having one Sun
day disengaged (the 3rd of January), I was invited to speak
before the Spiritualists of Greenfield, Mass. Previous to going
there I spent three days in New York, visiting a few of its
many sights. What a world it is 1 People from every por¬
tion of the habitable globe,'and every one in such a bustle, that
one would think the United States were all going to smash,
amd each member of this hurrying, rushing crowd was speed¬
ing to apply some remedy which should save the nation. I
have seen men rush for their liveij, seemingly, after a horse-
car, jump aboard, ride about fifty rods, alight, walk up the
hotel steps, and then stand picking their teeth with the ut¬
most unconcern 1 Everything here is done “ on the rush.”
Among the persons I called upon in New York was Mr. G.
H. Foster, the world-known medium. He received my visit
most cordially, and inquired after many he had met in Eng¬
land. He is in a large practice, and is resorted to by mem¬
bers of all classes of society.
190
THE SPIRITUALIST.
I also paid a visit, at the office of her paper, to Mrs. Vic¬
toria 0. Woodhull, the great champion of “ woman’s rights ”
and “ social freedom. ” Amiable and intelligent, with a cer¬
tain womanly grace pertaining to her, and with a most evident
earnestness in all she says, she seems to be inspired with a
purpose that she is determined' to carry out. I heard Mrs.
Woodhull lecture in Baltimore, Ma., last November. She is
an entertaining and intelligent speaker, and draws large
audiences to hear her.
I spent an evening with J. M. Peebles, and found him as
active and zealous as ever. I arrived in Greenfield, in due
course; the lectures were delivered, and so well pleased yrere
the people, that I was subsequently engaged for the month of
February.
On January the 5th I arrived in Boston, the literary centre
of the United States, and the “ Hub ” of the universe.
Winter, I must here insert, had began in dead earnest. I
found about two inches and a half of solid ice on all the side¬
walks ; the roads were about six or eight inches deep in snow;
wheels had disappeared from the vehicles, and sleds, or run¬
ners, had taken their places/ Unaccustomed to pedestrianism
on ice, it was quite natural to expect to fall. Five minutes
realised the expectation. I fell! I didn’t pray ! The weather
continued terribly cold all the time I remained in the city,
and the condition of roads and side-walks was a variation from
bad to worse. At home we grumble at half an inch of snow
and ice—out here that is not noticed.
The first thing to be done was to pay my respects to the
Banner of Light establishment. Accordingly I presented my¬
self thereat, and was most cordially received by the editor-in-
chief, Mr. Luther Golby. Courteous and gentlemanly, Mr.
Colby is just the man for the position he occupies. On a sub¬
sequent occasion I had the pleasure of attending the world-
renowned Banner of Light free circles.* Mrs. J. H. Conant
is the medium. Spirits of all classes come to these circles,
send messages to their friends, and thus give unmistakable
proofs of the after life. Also questions are discussed, and
answers given by such spirits as Theodore Parker, Ellery,
Channing, Thomas Paine, and other minds of equal power.
These circles are largely attended, and give much pleasure and
instruction to those present. Mrs. Conant is a pale, delicate,
fragile-looking lady, herself almost a spirit. Those who are
best acquainted with her say she merits the title of the
“world’s medium,” and her biography, which is well worth
reading, seems to bear out the claim.
On Sunday, Jan. 10th, the first address was given through
me in the Beethoven Hall, Boston ; every one was surprised
and delighted; I must confess my success was a great relief
to my own mind, as I knew in Boston I should meet the most
critical audience I Should find in the States. Unfortunately,
the day following I was taken ill with a violent cold. For five
days I was in bed, and was worse in health than I had been
since a serious illness fourteen years ago. I rallied, and on
the three remaining Sundays the verdict of the first Sunday
was more than confirmed. I was the success of the course
during the late season.
Cordially received, and most kindly treated on all sides, my
visit to Boston has filled my memory with the most pleasant
reminiscences. Doubtless the British National Association of
Spiritualists will be pleased to hear that the paper I had the
honour to read before the “ National Conference” last August,
has been printed and issued by the Banner of Light Publish¬
ing Company; it was also reprinted in the Spiritual Scientist,
and the favourable judgment conferred upon it in England
has been confirmed here.
Greenfield, Mass., was my next engagement. It is some¬
thing over one hundred miles from Boston. I had excellent
times there. In fact, we scared the clergy, who set about
preaching us down. They failed. While in the above town the
cold was intense; it averaged about 14 degrees below zero
every morning before 7.30, and seldom rose much above 0°
during the day. The snow was from two feet to four feet deep.
It moderated for a few days towards the end of the month,
but it soon stopped and went as cold as ever.f I had occasion
to take a railroad ride, and got into the tail of a snowstorm,
the result being it took four hours and fifty minutes to get
eighteen miles.
I was a few days in Boston, seeing friends, then came on
here, to Bangor, Me., which is 246 miles froin Boston, and
* Mr. Cooper reported that they were rather flat and uninteresting.—Ed.
t The latitude being further south than London, the weather ought to be
wanner, but the cold is caused by a cold sea current from the polar
regions, which washes the shores of North America, bringing down ice¬
bergs with it,—Ed.
April 16, 1875.
the journey just occupies eleven hours and forty minutes.
It affords ample time for reflection, but it is very cheap, the
cost being 6 dols. currency, or just £l Is. 6d. our money. This
is the State where the “ Maine Liquor Laws” operate. So far
as completely getting rid of “ drink” is concerned, prohibition
is a failure. It has done good though, but men will have drink
as long as it is made.
I have spoken here two Sundays, twice a day. My first
audience about one hundred persons, the second numbered
more than double, and last Sunday evening over four hundred
persons assembled. We are expecting to have the music hall
crowded next Sunday evening. The Hon. Newell Blake,
mayor, is president of the Spiritual Society, and chairman at
my meetings. Bangor has a population of 30,000, and its
chief trade is what is here called “ lumbering,” but known to
folks at home as the “ timber trade.” Many of the most in¬
tellectual people in the town are avowed Spiritualists, and a
deal of interest is manifested in the subject by the towns
round about.
On Wednesday week, the 31st inst., I am to be at the 27th
anniversary celebration of the advent of modern Spiritualism,
given by the Boston Spiritualists’ Union, in their Hall, Wash-
ington-street, Boston. I am specially retained for the address
on that occasion.
I was in hopes of reaching England by the middle of July,
but I find that is impossible. I am engaged clear through
August, and several of the societies are anxious to secure me
for September. I am inclined to think that I shall be some
time longer here than I originally anticipated. In fact, my
American friends manifest a disinclination to part with me
just as did my friends at home.
I am much better pleased with the country and the people
than I was some time ago. There is a general atmosphere of
freedom and breadth that is agreeable and exhilarating. It is
a grand country, a great nation, and they are a lively people.
Ere I close, one word, sir, in regard to the discussion of the
“ Inspiration of the Scriptures,” and “ The Divinity of
Christ,” now transpiring in your paper. Mr. C. W. Pearce—
who originated it—classes me among those who hold the
contra-opinion. It is quite true. And such is the universal
opinion held by all Spiritualists I have met in this coun try. I
remember the time when Mr. Pearce held similar ideas. I am
still an opponent to churchianic theology, therefore “ I guess,”
to use a Yankeeism, I am still heretical.
Trusting my letter will not prove too long, and with fraternal
love to all my English brethren, not omitting the sisters, I am,
with best wishes to you. J. J. Mouse.
Bangor, Maine, U.S., March 20th, 1875.
PHIZES FOR ESSAYS ON SPIRITUALISM:.
CONDITIONS OF COMPETITION.
The following circular was issued to the public last Tues¬
day
“ The Council of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists offer the gold medal of the Association, or the sum of
£20 in money, for the best essay upon the subject below men¬
tioned, and under the conditions there indicated.
“ They have further been enabled, through the liberality of
one of the members of the Association, to offer a second prize
of £10, which will be awarded under the same conditions, for
the essay which shall be adjudged to be second in order
of merit.
“rL—The subject of the essay shall be “ The probable effect of Spiritualism
upon the Social, Moral, and Religious conditions of Society.”
II. —The competition shall be open to all British born, or naturalised
British subjects ; and further, to all foreign members of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, provided that all essays intended for
competition be written in the English language.
III. —All essays shall be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875,
to the resident secretary of the Association, Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great
Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, London, 'W.O.
IV. —No essay shall exceed in length six columns of the Times newspaper,
or thereabouts.
V. —The copyright of the essays to which prizes are adjudged shall be
the sole property of the Association for five years from the date of ad¬
judication.
VI. —Each essay must be in clear legible handwriting, and shall have
endorsed upon it an assumed name or motto, a corresponding motto to be
endorsed upon an envelope containing the true name and address of the
writer. Only the envelopes bearing the names of the successful competi¬
tors will be opened; the remainder of the MSS. will be held at the order
of any person who shall apply for them under their correct description.
“ The following gentlemen have kindly consented to decide
upon the merits of the competing essays:—Alfred Bussell
Wallace, Esq., F.R.S.; M. A. (Oxen.); J, M. Gully,Esq., M.D.;
and Martin B. Smith, Esq.”
April 16, 1875.
THE SPIJRITUALIST.
191
(EorrespottTience.
{Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
FAITH, AND ITS FOUNDATIONS.
Sib,—In the able article published in the Spectator of
March 27th, 1875, the writer, who comments upon modern
Spiritualism, cannot accept the theory of spiritual interference
with the laws of nature, on account of the confusion he con¬
siders it would produce in the ordinary business of life.
The same difficulty would prevent credence in past records
of spiritual affairs. In the 1 Kings, xviii., we read how.
Obadiah was met by Elijah, and told by him to go tell his
Lord, “ Behold, Elijah is here.” Obadiah’s dismay at such a
commission we can all understand, as he pleads in excuse for
his hesitation in verse 12, “And it shall come to pass as soon as
I am gone from thee that the Spirit of the Lord shall carry thee
whither I know not; and so, when I come and tell Ahab, and
he cannot find thee, he shall slay me ; but I thy servant fear
the Lord from my youth.” Here we see the fear of a believer.
Can we wonder at the dismay of an unbeliever ? Obadiah had
hid a hundred men of the Lord’s prophets by fifty in a cave,
and fed them with bread and water, in return for which Elijah,
says, “ Go tell thy Lord, Behold, Elijah is here; ” and, fully
realising the position, Obadiah adds, “ and he shall slay me.”
No sane modern believer in spiritual direction supposes that
such belief can or should shield him from obedience to the
law of man. The actions of a man are judged by two courts
of law, the court on earth and the court in heaven. Christ
Himself was condemned, and bowed to the condemnation of
the first, this verdict, as pronounced in the higher court of
appeal, the world has yet to hear proclaimed.
Abraham, did he now walk the earth, and dare to obey the
voice of the Lord as he did in the freedom of patriarchal times,
would, on his way to sacrifice his son, have been in danger of
modem law, and, had he slain his son, would have died ’mid
the execrations of the many and the pity of the few, who would
have seen in this a case of religious mania. Those who fear
God first will obey Him without regard to man’s laws or judg¬
ment, and if, in obeying God, they offend man, they will bow
their heads as meekly to the buffets of the officers of earthly
tribunals as did the Son of God, who, when He was accused,
answered nothing, submitting to the usages accorded by man
for the work done for His Father, disturbing in no way exist¬
ing laws of evidence, but content with',the world’s rejection, so
long as He found acceptance at the hands of His Father in
Heaven.
For the tone of the article in the Spectator all Spiritualists
should be grateful; it is fair, natural, and hopeful. The state¬
ments are fair, the arguments natural, and the effect upon
spiritual readers hopeful. Once admit that a table can be
moved without visible agency, and the nature of the agency
has a fair chance of being fairly investigated.
Geobge M. Sutherland.
[If a spirit told Mr. Sutherland to cut the throat of his son or some other
near relative, in a back garden or other place convenient for such dissec-
tional experiments, we take it that the order itself would contain internal
and most absolute evidence that it did not come from any good source, but
had its origin in the lower regions, or in the abnormal working of the
brain of a medium, who did not know how spirit messages were uncon¬
sciously warped and coloured during transmission through his organism.
At all events, if Mr. Sutherland executed such an order next week, he pro¬
bably would meet with no sympathy from any reader of these pages. There
would be no merit in the deed.—Ed.]
SPIRITUALISM ARD THEOLOGY.
Sib,—Every honest man strives to make his external life an
expression of his interior belief; consequently, your corre¬
spondents who do not yet believe, or who disbelieve, in the
usefulness of an investigation into the effects which flow from
an acceptance or rejection of the pivotal statements of the
Bible, that the Lord Jesus Christ is God manifest in the flesh ;
and that the Scriptures which reveal Him are inspired by
Him, object to the investigation, and thus, in their reason for
their objection they, themselves, illustrate the truth that
honest men’s lives are controlled by their beliefs.
Spiritualists should be the last persons to refuse to investi¬
gate, since by investigation they have obtained an entrance
into a new world. Neither should they lightly esteem any
who may offer them the result of their investigations in a
neglected field. Had not the few persons who first witnessed
the “ Hydesville knockings ” forced their knowledge before a
sleeping world, the world would have slept on and we with it.
I state a truth which all can discover if they desire; many
have already done so, that not only does Spiritualism exhibit
the phenomena called “physical,” of which the senses of the
natural body take cognizance, but it also reveals to the senses
of the spiritual body manifestations incomparably superior;
and by them it introduces the student into a world as high
above the one opened by the physical phenomena, as that is
above the material world in which aforetime we groped.
In this superior world the Lord Jesus Christ is clearly per¬
ceived to be the visible embodiment of the Infinite Being—
God manifest in the form of a man. And here is also clearly
shown how the beliefs of a man, if they be true and good,
tend to fashion him into an image and likeness of the Divine;
and how, if they be false and evil, they mould him into the
form of his own conceit. And here it is also clearly seen that
the Scriptures are written in a symbolical language, for the
symbols and their interpretation are visible to all, as a scientific
unfolding of the states through which a man must pass who
desires to become perfect as his Father in Heaven is perfect,
and the means he must use to attain this end : and also the
states through which a seZ/-satisfied man passes in his down¬
ward descent. •
When once a person has, by patient striving, obtained an
entrance into this phase of Spiritualism, he stands above the
large majority of the spirits who communicate at our circles;
and he can discern with unerring certainty between the true
and the false.
Instructions how to form these spirit circles are to be found
in the spiritual sense of that part of the 5th chap. John, which
commences with the word “ search.” C. W. Pearce.
14, Burnley Road, S.W., March 23rd, 1875.
[Our friend Mr. Pearce is now left alone fighting the air, for we have had no
further letters contending with him. The recent discussion and the
National Association vote, together show that public opinion is against the
introduction of theological controversy into Spiritualism. If Mr. Pearce
supposes that those who do not accept particular theological opinions have
no soul above the physical manifestations, he is mistaken.—Ed ]
PSYCHOPATHY.
Sib,—Since the day of iEsculapius, the “ faculty,” as they
are styled, have been groping in the dark. They have searched
through both the mineral and vegetable kingdom to seek a
cure for all those “ ills that flesh is heir to,” yet somehow or
other to the orthodox M.D. the true art of healing still re¬
mains an unsolved problem.
My wife is a living testimony to the healing power possessed
by, and developed in “mediums” of the present day. Dur¬
ing the last few years she has been suffering with that most
undesirable of complaints, consumption. After undergoing
all manner of treatment by some of the ablest and most
experienced of the medical faculty in this town for nearly four
years, she began to consider her case almost hopeless and
past cure. In the meantime, becoming acquainted with
Spiritualism, and hearing of the wonderful cures wrought by
“ the laying on of hands,” it was resolved to give it a trial.
Mr. Coates, of the Psychopathic Institute, 1, Dunkeld Street,
West Derby Road, under the direction of his spirit guide, Dr.
Warren, and with that sympathy of soul so characteristic of
all true benefactors, took the case in hand; and I am ex¬
tremely pleased to testify to the healing power possessed by
this medium, my wife now being restored to a state of health
quite beyond expectation.
I would also call particular attention to the healing power
possessed by Mrs. Coates. Mr. Meredith, the well-known cura¬
tive ".mesmerist, and Mr. W. Isaacs, are also attached to the
institute. The latter gentleman is a very valuable acquisi¬
tion, having the splendid gift of clairvoyance, by which he is
able to examine, and give diagnosis of the patients. In con¬
clusion, I would say to all who lack the two great essentials of
a happy condition of life here— a sound mind in a sound body
—give these remarkable healers a trial, and I doubt not but
that you will have every reason to be grateful for the benefits
derived from this not new, but most ancient method of cure
so little understood, and hitherto less appreciated.
When will man comprehend the grandeur of this truth,
“ There is nothing new under the sun ” ?
May prosperity attend the efforts of all connected with the
above institute is the sincere desire of Walter Jehu.
74, Knowsley-street, Boundary-lane, West Derby-road, Liverpool.
[The advantages of mesmerism may be narrated without firing shots at
members of the medical profession, who, as a rule, are gentlemen of culture,
are the slaves of the public by day and night, and alleviate a large mass of
suffering, although, in some cases, they fail where mesmerism succeeds,
and vice versa.—Ed.]
192
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION BAZAAE.
Sir,—Thinking that the following extracts from a letter I
have just received from our valued friend, Mr. Mylne, of India,
would be interesting to many of your readers^who are helping
us to make our proposed bazaar a success, allow me a small
space in this week’s issue.
Mr. Mylne writes—“ Being so far away, and so much out of
anything like Spiritualism, I am glad you have written me in time
to send some little help to the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. I do not think there is anything I could send from
this country at such short notice better than a cash contribu¬
tion. Enclosed is a cheque for £10 in Mr. Everitt’s favour,
which he will kindly get cashed, and make the money over to
you to expend in the interests of the proposed bazaar, in such
manner as you think best; as you have kindly promised to
act for me in this matter, I will feel obliged if you will use the
money as if it were your own, in the purchase of such things
for the bazaar as you may consider best.
“ I hope a good sum will be realised for the benefit of the
Association.”
I will just say that I shall have very great pleasure in per-
formfbg the same office for any other gentlemen or friends,
who would like to favour me with their contributions, only
asking them to forward their gifts without delay, as the time is
short. M. A. Everitt.
Lilian Villa, Hendon, N.W., April 12th, 1875.
THE BING- TEST—A NUT TO CRACK! IN GERMANY.
Sir,—In the last number of Psychic Studies (Leipsic) appears
a letter by Dr. Med. Wegener, proposing to make the ring test
a strong proof to outsiders, by asking the spirits to try to link
two rings of different woods together. If then no trace by
microscopic observation of separation could be detected, the
evidence of spirit power would be conclusive to all.
A foot-note by the editor highly recommends this sug¬
gestion.
Now, sir,- about two years ago, when my circle was in full
swing, and the ring test mere child’s play, I placed two cur¬
tain-rings (different woods) on the table for the same purpose.
It was tried several times, but in vain. On my questioning,
whether one part must be a living body (as the medium), the
answer was usually, “We will try another time.” At the
time I thought my plan a lucky hit and kept it secret, hoping
for success some day. If this problem has not been settled
in other circles, I venture to draw attention to it, and believe
that at Williams’ circles, or Herne’s, John King or Peter might
be requested to do something in this matter.
Christian Beimers.
Manchester, March 28th, 1875.
[We believe Mr. E. T. Bennett once tried to get turned rings of two kinds
of wood interlinked by spirits, and failed.—Ed.]
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER’S MlfolUMSHIP.
Sir,—Will you be so kind as to grant me space for a few
lines to add my testimony as regards Miss Lottie Fowler’s
powers as a clairvoyant ? I had the pleasure of a seance with
her on Saturday afternoon last, the 10th inst., when she de¬
picted in a truly remarkable manner many matters of a
thoroughly primte nature, which proved to my satisfaction the
genuineness of her powers. Several incidents, of which at the
time I had no knowledge, on subsequent inquiry proved to be
correct, while in respect to other things I cannot at present
testify. I was glad to learn how well Miss Fowler is utilised,
and can certainly strongly recommend her to the inquirers
into pyschological phenomena. Thomas Bltton.
12, St, Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, London, E., 14th April, 1875.
Fob a year or more, English Spiritualists have been cut
off from supplies of American books on Spiritualism, with the
exception of a few imported by Mr. Trubner. Mr. Peebles’
Around the World, for instance, has not been obtainable in
this country. A very large supply of American Spiritual books
of all kinds will reach Mr. Harrison in a week or ten days’
time, and be obtainable at his publishing office, on the pre¬
mises of the National Association of Spiritualists.
The Allan Kardec Anniveesaby.—The 31st March,
the anniversary of the Bochester rappings, is also the anni¬
versary of the passing away of Allan Kardec. The event is
generally commemorated in Paris by a gathering of French
Spiritualists at the tomb of the “ master,” where they are
received by his faithful widow, now in her eighty-second year.
The Revue Spirite (1st April date) contains an invitation to
commemorate the eve of that day in the usual manner.
April 16, 1875.
Messes. Bastian and Taylob, physical mediums, state
that they intend leaving England in May next.
A COEEESPONDENT informs us that Dr. Sexton’s lecture
in Belper, Derbyshire, last week, was a great success, and
is likely to have good results.
A new Spiritualist journal has just appeared at Rio
Janeiro, in the Spanish language. M. Lieutaud, principal of
the French college at Bio Janeiro, is an ardent Spiritist.
An answer of several pages in length to the Archbishop
of Toulouse’s strictures upon Spiritualism appears in the
Revue Spirite, copied from a journal bearing the title of Le
Bon Sens.
Mb. Charles E. Williams has been engaged to give a
seance at the rooms of Mr. Thomas Wilks, bookseller,
2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane, on Tuesday evening, 20th inst.
Particulars can be obtained on application.
Next Wednesday evening, the quarterly meeting of the
Marylebone Association of Spiritualists will be held, at 90,
Church-street, Edgware-road, at 7.30 p.m. Admission free.
The society is in want of rooms for seances in the neighbour¬
hood of Paddington.
> There will be an ordinary general meeting of the mem¬
bers of the National Association of Spiritualists, on Wednes¬
day, the 21st instant, at six o’clock p.m., when the auditor’s
report, already published, will be read. After the general
meeting, there will be an ordinary meeting of the Council.
Captain James has been invited to read a paper before
the members of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism, on his experiences in mesmerism, a subject now
engaging the attention of a committee of members of that
Association. Captain Hudson, of Swansea, has already cor¬
responded with the committee, and those who desire to aid
them are requested to address the secretary of the Mesmeric
Committee, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, without delay.
Opening of the Reading-room of the National
Assocaition.—On and after Monday, the new reading-room of
the British National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great
Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, will be open from 10.30 a.m. to
10.30 p.m., and the terms of admission will be found in the
report of the Council meeting, published in this issue. A
home in which Spiritualists can meet each other in hours of
leisure is therefore now provided. Harmony and good-will
prevail throughout the National Association; and next month
the whole of the members of the Council, who have done
their work so well, will resign, and offer themselves for re-
election. Each member of the Association has but one vote,
and is -eligible for election to all offices, consequently rich and
poor members stand on terms of equality, the constitution of
the Association being as free as that of the United States of
America. It includes no self-elected authorities. The accounts
of the Association are carefully audited, and the members
supplied with regular balance-sheets, to show how their funds
have been expended by their elected representatives.
Dalston Association of Spiritualists.—The ordinary
monthly session of the Council of this Association was held
at the rooms, 74, Navarino-road, on Thursday evening, the
8th inst., Mr. Thomas Wilks in the chair. The minutes of
the last meeting of the Council were read and confirmed.
The cash account was submitted and passed. Mrs. H. D. Jencken
and Mr. Frank Herne were elected honorary members. It was
agreed to close an engagement with Mr. Charles E. Williams
for a special seance, on the evening of Friday, the 30th instant,
admission to be by tickets to members at Is. 6d., and non¬
members (on introduction by members) at 2s fid. each. Pro¬
ceedings were reported re the subscription list opened at the
rooms for the Wallace Testimonial. The receipt of a presenta¬
tion copy of Will Ability from the author, Mr. Joseph Hands,
M.B.C.S., was also reported, and a cordial vote of thanks was
accorded the donor for his valuable and instructive work.
Notices of resignation were submitted and accepted from
Messrs. Algernon Joy, Edward Luck, and Thomas McCormick.
It was resolved to invite Mr. Algernon Joy’s acceptance of
honorary membership. The membership of five individuals
was cancelled, in accordance with the rules and regulations of
the Association.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Several letters have arrived too late for publication in this issue.
All letters, except those containing late news, should reach us by.
the Monday of each week. H. G. A.’s letter will be published
next week ; we wish first to inquire into the facts.
April 16, 1875,
THE SPIKITUALIST.
in
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTS, whose reputation is
welljknown throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Vemon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, W.O.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, 'will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing, Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
ROBERT HARPER is now sufficiently free from busi¬
ness engagements to undertake LECTURING and HEALING.—
R. H. has been a close student under many eminent professors in the great
Spiritual University for 14 years. He is willing to communicate what he
has thus acquired, by Lecturing upon the Higher Branches of *he Spiritual
Science, to any who may desire his services. The Terms will be made
suitable to the poorest Societies, and may be learnt on application. Address
Soho-hill, Birmingham.
M1
'R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical • Mesmerist and
Rubbeb, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
T Y. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
O . Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Registeb your Letters.
R. J. J.
MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
_Lf JL is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
Boon |as engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic healing
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
Messrs, harry bastian and malcolm
TAYLOR, Physical and Mental Test Mediums, from America.—
PARLOUR SEANCES every evening except Tuesday, Friday, and
Sunday, at 2, Vemon-place, Bloomsbury-square. Tickets, 5s. each; hour
8 o’clock. For private seances, address as above.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Trance mediumship for family business
and Other Tests, Healing or Development, by Spirit Mesmerism, &c.
Mr. Olive, 49, Belmont-street, Chalk Farm-road, N.W. Six years practice.
Terms—21s. per private seance.
A public seance at above address on Tuesday evenings, at 7 o’clock,
admission 2s. 6d. Also at 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, on Mondays
at 3 p.m.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
dailyl from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
Fm. parkes, spiritualist photographer.
• Sittings a la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sitting. Address, 6, Gay.aes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buRdings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool,
Chianery, Samuel, Esq., 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice. D.D , 44,Netherwood-rd., Wes' Kensington-pk., W
Da we, N. F., 8, Marlborough-road, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwieh.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester,
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
James, Capt. J., Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.O.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Nosworthy, Mrs.F. A., 17, Riehmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D, LL.D.,&e.,17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein. Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia.
Mrs 'Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 3,556, Boston, U.S. A
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme G, de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Wurzburg, Bavaria.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
Dr. G. L. Ditson, Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, Africa.
iv THE SPIRITUALIST. A^Ril4a,;l875.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigatiofr because within the last tweilty years
it has found its way into all the civiltfed countries on the globe; it’ has also
a literature of thousands of volumes'and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, 'A'dam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., Q-. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Eisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Eeed, Esq.; 0. Bussell Eoberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls 6i the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’ .
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained-on the first occasion, try again with other
Bitters. One or-more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be. no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the pitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and-the signals will
be afterwards strengthened.. Next ask,- “Who.is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
Well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
Tbe best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle, are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations aro bom of the
soirit/and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers, present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of. a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance^
« THE' SPIRITUALIST” , NEWSPAPER :
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PKICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. O. F. Varley, C.E., F.B.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred B. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Bobert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isbam, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdtmgall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr.'Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.) ; Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Bev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, Mr. S. 0. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.B.I., Barris-
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr. C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Bichardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
A BOOK FOR THE MILLION.
Read the following from “ The London Review."
The Two Discoveries; or, Key to Pine’s Spiritual Telegraph. By
Clement Pine. London: Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and of the
Author at Bridgwater. Price Is. By post, Is. Id.
Spiritualism has become one of the most absorbing studies of the day.
Enquiring minds long to pieres its hidden mysteries, and fathom its mys¬
terious depths. Those endowed with the highest attributes have been and
are the most diligent searchers into the veiled and sacred spirit-world.
The author of the above soul-absorbing work claims for it the wonderful
power of unlocking the abstruse labyrinths of mathematical science,
enabling everyone, who values the privilege, to converse as freely with
friends in spirit-life as when they were on earth. We must certainly say
that the book is a curious, original, and thoughtful one, which wilt amply
repay an attentive perusal. It is replete with the most startling evidences
of the truth of Spiritualism, and the author’s spirit of sincerity permeates
every page. The appendix more especially provei the writer to be a man
of deep learning, profound thought, and a most able mathematician; his
facts are incontrovertible, his reasoning sound, and his deductions clear and
logical. We cordially and strongly recommend this, the most original
book of tbe day, to the perusal of our readers; and congratulate the author
upon producing a work so replete with information, and of such absorbing
interest as the “Two Discoveries.”
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London.—Simpkin, Marshai-l & Co.
THE SPIRITUAL AND PSYCHOPATHIC INSTI¬
TUTE, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (term*
per arrangement.) J. and L. E. COATES, Principals.
mHE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
JL THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman,
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his life and
WBITING. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth j also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jebns—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden,
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-BENTS, HOLBOBN, W.O.,
Bespectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions o Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
