REGiSIEflED AS A NEWSPAPER. J
4rxmmd^!£r icrxilj Spriiualxsm m $>xmi §nfahr»
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule*
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. ioto, Seventh-street.
No. 243. (Yol. X.—No. 16.) LONDON: FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
©ontema.
Not Peace, but a Sword ... .... ...   ... .... ...181
Investigators’/Seances   «  182
Two Hours with a Materialised Spirit, . By Enrico Bondi 182
The Theosophical Society  ... ...  183
Medical Mental Science. By William Hitchman, M.R.C.S. 184
On Some of the /Moral and Beligious Aspects of Spirit¬
ualism. By Emily Kislingbury... ... ... ... ... 184
Poetry:—Love the Truth and Peace. By Maurice Da¬
vies, D.D....' ■...-i;..''... / ... ... 186
Mrs. Weldon’s Social Evenings   186
The Lawrence Case      ,,, ...  187
Soiree iWosicate, next Wednesday ... ... ... ... ... :... 187
A Seance with Mr. Williams. By St. George W. Stock,
; MIA.-..'. .\.i -...' ... ' ....   : ... 188
Poetry:—The Shadow of Death...    189
Correspondence:—“Where is the Spirit World?”—Mr.
Herne's Mediumship—Philosophical Speculations in
Belation to Spiritual Phenomena—What “An Old
Man from the Country Thinks ”—The Taylor Family
Memoirs—The Spirits of Animals ...' ... 189
Queen’s Bench, April 14:—Lawrence v. the Queen ... ... 190
Trance Utterance at the Funeral of Mr. S. S. Jones ... ... 191
Beligion and Science. No.TI. By a Broad Church Cler¬
gyman  ... ... ......... ....... ... ... .... ...192
Answers to Correspondents... ... ... ... ...   192
Paragraphs:—The Doctrine of Eternal Punishment, 181;
Dr. Davies’s Lectures, 181; Spirit Identity, 183;' Mr.
John Leckenby, 186; E. W. Wallis and East End
Spiritualism, 187; Spiritualism in Dalston, 187; The
Model Buies of the Dalston Association, 187; Spirit¬
ualism in Marylebone, 187; The King of Dahomey,
191; Superstitions of the Eussian Peasantry, 192;
Exorcising Bats...  ...  192
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PBIOE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
A oldest Newspaper connected’with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
stsin allthe English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions fn its columns are Mr. C. F- Varley, C.E., F.B.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present tiihe,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred B.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the-Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Kayn-Wittgehstein (Wiesbaden); the Bight Hon. the Countess of
Caithness;- His, Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenbergi;. Mr. H. G.-Atkinson, F.G.S.;' Lord Lindsay; the
Hon.' Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
pf’, Naples) j'Baron Dirckihck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. 0. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder,' President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; 'the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes’Sargent (Bostonr U.S.); -Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross -Ghtireh (Florence Marryat); :Mrs.‘ Mak-
dougall Gregory ; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof,-Russian Imperial
Councillor, and- Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ;. the Bareness Adelma Vay (Austria) ; Mr. H.' M. Duriphy,
Barrister-at-Law; .C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci. . Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy ah Westminster Hospital f Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edhj,);^Mr. J. C. Luxmpore: Mr. John E. PurdpniM.B: (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr.' Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stockt.B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N:
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the .“.Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev.H.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of,“.Unorthodox London”;'Mr. S/C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken. M.R.1., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy ;' Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C.-Constant
Smyrna);. Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. ,N."T.
MartheZe; Mr. J. M. Peebles'(United States); Mr.W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.^
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdpm, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, '4 dels. 17 cents per annum, which
may he paid in to Messrs. Colby arid Rich, 9,' Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt‘forwarded - to W. H. Harristm,
Spieituaiist Newspaper Office, 38,’ Great Russell-street, London,
. w.o. wihMfe ’ . i. r
"R. J. COATES, the Mesmerist, will, give a
series of seven entertainments at the Albert Hallj
Virgel-street, Scotland-road, Liverpool, commencing Monday,
the ldth inst., and every evening, at eight, and at three and
eight,'Saturday, the 21stinst. These entertainments'are highly
spoken of by the Press.
SPIRIT.; PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
--•description., of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. ' Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. X^..—SpirUu(dist Newspaper
Branch Office. ■
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT BUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for April, 1877.
Monday, lath.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8 p.m.
Tuesday, nth.—Members’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Admission, 2s. 6d.
„ —Soiree Committee at 5 p.m.
Thursday, 19th.—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Mr. Eglinton,
medium.
Friday, 20th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Tuesday, 2Wi.—Members’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Admission, 2s. 6d.
Wednesday, .25th,—QcRkum Musical Entertainment1 - at 38,
Great Bussell-street. Commence at 8 p.m.
Thursday, 26<A—Enquirers’ Seance, at 8 p.m. Mr. Eglinton,
medium.
Friday, 21th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m. ■
Monday, 90th.—Library Committee, at 7 p.m.
„ f * Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
. SPIRITUALISTS.
Changes having been made in the arrangement of the
Beading Boom and Library, at 38, Great Bussell Street, the
Booms will be Reopened with a
SPECIAL SOIREE AND
GRAND MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT
On Wednesd ay, April 25th,
To Commence at Eight o’clock precisely.
The following Ladies and Gentlemen will take part in the
performances, viz.:—Madame Bonniger, Madame Schneegans
Mrs. Limpus, Miss Schallehn, the Misses Withall, Mr. Tietkens
Mr. AndrS, Mr. Kiteat, and Mr. Dietz.
Single tickets, 2s. 6d.; double tickets, 4s.; to he had of the
Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.; Mrs.
D. Fitz-Gerald, 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton, or any
member of the Soiree Committee ot the Association.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote" the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership,' &c., &c., apply
to—
* ;  H. E. FRANCES,’ Hon. SeO. ^
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s.' cloth. J
LIFE BEYOND THE-GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.'
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binuey.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
By Royal Letters Patent
“RHINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY; -
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND .
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR*
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache. .
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. . It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical >
analysis.  -  
< The above fact renders THE .“KRINE COSMETIC” an ,
invaluable .preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use Of Pomade or any
other emollient.
■ Sold by Chemists and .Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per . Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by EiKLn and .CO., 21, '.Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-streef,
Sloane-square, S.W.  ‘ U  [ ' '
THREE SHARES, value : £100 each, in a'
private Syndicate or Company, composed mainly of
Spiritualists, FOR SALE on most.advantageous terms.' The
holder is1 reluctantly compelled to’ part with them under
special circumstances. Full particulars to be ohtained of X.',
care of the publisher of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-
street, London,-W.C. ■  z ’ ' ■
1\/rEDIUMSHIP : ITS . NATURE AND
jltjL VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles iri\..their, own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, - Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free .
for 6d. .
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
President.
HENRY D. JENOK.EN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(JBarrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association, for the Reform, and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
COUNCIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, i Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
. Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus/
sions, reading Of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition ^ to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association: have) the privilege of attending, the public seances of.
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of tne prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
formation of circles and conduct oi seances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for- Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the mouths
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
'15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at.eight, application by letter. Open seance^
on Wednesdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to"
both circle and seance, 6s. 6d.; for seanceovly, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of. Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff, Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff;
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. • On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and.Gircular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills' of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks- and Shares purchased and sold and
advance's made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCRGFT, Manager.
HATCHARD’S duplex funeral cars
(Used open or closed), Silver-mounted, Violet or Oak Panels,
Plated Harness, &c. "
Inventors, Patentees and Builders,
S. HATOHARD & 00.,
FUNERAL FUBNISHERS.'&C.'
Chief Office:—
.47, CRAWFORD ST., BRYANSTON SQ., W.
Fuperals conducted in accordance with the views of Spirit¬
ualists. Coloured Palls supplied. Personal attendance at any
address on receipt of letter or telegram.
Publishing Office: 13, Red Lion-court, Fleet-street,
London, E.C.
HE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional literature, drama,
music, sports, &o. Chas. L. Wellsdeu, Editor and Proprietor,
1, Castledine-road, Auerley, S.E.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April 20, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OS’
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Colder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Vice-Presiden ts.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.E.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Rogers, E. D , Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman.M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason. .Tames. Wasnn’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.  
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, B. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-rOad, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
llinney, F A., 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H„ 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Tiros., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea. Portsmouth.
Cook, K.eningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.'J. T., f/ynwood. Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H , 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Oerald, Mrs. D. G., 6. Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendlnning A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hoiiehton, Miss, 20, Delamere-cescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kenning ton-
park. 'S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, AVm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse. J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newhould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reirrers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, .vrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Stra vwdge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
. S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morel!, 30, Mark-lane, E.C:
Thoobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy. 40, C1 averton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouae, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds,
ivtlson, D. H. M.A., l.L.M , Poste Bestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
WMthall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mt\ J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan deRassim PachaaBahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via flratz, Austria.
The Baroness Ouldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-'street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany."
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia,
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 11,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson,Esq.,M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J.- Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.8.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. II. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnfery, Esq., 2. Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test. Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—K1 Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can bo attended by reccmmendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1877.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President—John Priest, Esq.
Secretary.—Mr. Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Auditors.—Mr. Charlton and Mr. Chatham.
Trustees.—Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
James Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos¬
worthy, Mrs. Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Mr. Casson, Mr.
Davies, Mr. Foden, Mr. Fowler. Mr. Jones, Mr. A. Lamont,
Mr. J. Lamont, Mr. Norris, Mr. Richard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI¬
CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a stanoard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
1 two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psyeho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms. 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (thirty years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at
his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 8 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honor<5,
Paris.
MR. 0. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
BRIGHTON. — APARTMENTS, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the bouse of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &o. Address, “Spiritualist,” 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade,
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should he made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mbs. A. C. Burke
Mrs. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &cM will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie ”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistook-square, W.O.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
by william h. Harrison.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-coneeived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of A priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical."—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.’’—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—/SowfA Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H, Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
NOT PEACE, BUT A SWORD.
“I come, not to send peace upon the earth, but a sword,
said One of olden time, “ I come to set a man at |m
variance against his father, and the daughter against her |
mother, and a man’s foes shall be they of his own house- ij
hold.” ; ' |:|
This saying is hard to be understood, except by those who |
have closely watched the influence upon the consociation of \ <
individuals of divergence in religious ideas, and never was ij
the truth of the utterance more demonstrated than it is at ! j
this day in connection with the advance of the high truth of jl
modern Spiritualism. Every Spiritualist of upwards of one | j
year’s experience can point to more than one sad example of j|
belief in Spiritualism having been the means of hopelessly and | \
permanently alienating husband and wife, so that they no j j
longer take pleasure or interest in each other’s society. All | s
divergence in religious ideas exerts this influence to some j(
extent, but that incidental to Spiritualism does so with |j
maximum force, because the truth of the idea is brought ! (
home to the heart and consciousness of each inquirer by j!
absolute demonstration, in the shape of visible signs and j
wonders which every man can prove for himself in his own j j
home. Why then should a truth which is so real, which is i
so surely founded, produce this unhappiness ? Because the I
bond of the particular family union, the rottenness of which |
is brought into full relief, was never real; it was originally I j
founded, not on similarity of tastes and aspirations, not |J
upon a spiritual and religious sympathy capable of enduring j j
through the ages of eternity, but upon low motives of a jl
materialistic character; upon motives which perhaps pro- ! J
moted ascendency abroad at the expense of misery at home, j j
Spiritualism, like an avenging angel, steps in, filling the soul j
to overflowing with religious thoughts and aspirations which j
others in the home cannot appreciate or endure ; the earth- 1
made bond is then severed by the two-edged sword of j
eternal truth, whose principles had been infringed.
In a far more limited number of cases this same truth has j
tended to a lesser extent to separate parent and child. These j
examples are fewer and less severe, because the original bond !
of union is in all such cases more real; it is a natural union, j
not founded upon low motives. But examination will pro¬
bably prove that in no instance where the father and mother |
have both been Spiritualists at heart, have the children j j |
evinced any aversion to the facts and philosophy upon which i i
the religious ideas of their parents are founded, since children i j j
largely manifest, in an incipient form, the thoughts and ! j
emotions of their ancestors, and upon a slightly advanced | (|
plane. Our argument, in short, is, that Spiritualism acts as j |
a sword to those unions only which are more or less of a j j
sham nature, but that the weapon falls edgeless before those ! j j
which are real. j j I
Human sorrow is in most, if not in all cases, the result of j j j
human sin, the trouble, by a process of inevitable law, j j
treading upon the heels of the evil deed. The knowledge of j | j
the cause of suffering is half-way to the provision of a |jj
remedy, and there can be no question that most of the jjj
unhappiness in society is due to society having established j jj
false ideals, materialistic aims, ignoble ends, as the be-all j j j
and end-all of existence here. One of the chief uses of life jj
is to gain that kind of experience which will strengthen j j
and improve the spiritual and intellectual nature of the indi- j jj
vidual, who, although he brings nothing into the world, can j j
take all the property just mentioned, and none other, jjj
out of it. Further, in pursuit only of such experience do jjj
individuals tread the path of duty here, and none other can jj
by any possibility be the path of happiness. A life of indo- j j
lence and ease, from the cradle to the grave, is one, sooner j j i
or later, of true misery, and in all cases dwarfs the inner jjj
nature of the individual. An instance occurred recently— ''j
in a locality which for the sake of privacy shall be nameless,
except that it was between the Northern and Southern Poles
—in which a young lady, heart-sick of living the life of a
nonentity at home, fed at regular intervals by servants, like
the animals in the Zoological Gardens, and incapable of
doing anything of value to the world at large, ran away to
take a situation as a servant-maid. The home circle were in
agony at the dread of a member of the family being known
to be capable of doing anything useful; the runaway was
caught and subjected once more to social captivity. A greater
mistake than that of the parents in stopping the experiment,
could not possibly have been made; the trials, prosaic exist¬
ence, and hard work of a servant-maid would have secured
the return of the runaway in a moderate time, but it would
then have been a return glorified by the trophies of some
little acquaintance with the world as it is, with some of the
realities of life, and with the sweetness of the possession of
that absolute knowledge which can be gained only by
experience. Poor, weak things, are birds kept in a cage,
however luxurious, and unable to fly, as compared with
those who, with flashing eyes and strong wings, disport
themselves in the pure air of freedom. The mistake is toa
often made of thinking that the experiences of one person
can be superimposed upon another; if it could be done, it
would not be to his advantage; strength of mind, and inde¬
pendence of character can be gained only by the performance
of the actual work of battling personally with difficulties.
The next generation, to avoid the miseries of the past, should
have higher ideals and aims in life set before it, and should
be encouraged in freedom of action and independence of
character.
Dr. Carter Brake is still extremely ill, but Ms coudition has slightly
improved during the last few days.
“ There are thousands of such conversions through the evidences of
Spiritualism. If this be so, can you wonder at the rapid strides which
Spiritualism is raaking throughout the civilised world ? Can you be
surprised that such an audience as this—the majority at least—can be
assembled to uphold a belief which teaches nothing worse than that spirit
communion is both possible and lawful—that our Heavenly Father is
a living and merciful God—that each of us must reap as we may sow—
that the future is a state of eternal progression—and that, therefore,
there is hope and salvation for all.—B. Coleman ; The Rise ana,
j Progress of Spiritualism in England,
The Doctrine op Eternal Punishment.—Mr. G. H. Newton, in
the course of a communication to us, says:—“Believe not in the
doctrine that there is an eternal hell tire prepared for all those who
have stumbled on the wrong creed or dogma, for it is false ; it is not in
harmony with the laws of the Divine Being. Think more of the love
of God than of his hatred, which is a miserable fallacy. Cling to the
beautiful words—4 God is love,’ and build thereon your religious ideas,
that we may grow more in light and knowledge, and that our religion
may be purer, holier, truer, and brighter.”
Dr. Davies’s Lectures.—The second lecture on “ Modern Poetry,”
by Dr. Maurice Davies, took place at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s (21,
Green-street, Grosvenor-square), on Wednesday evening, when the
subject was “Pathetic, Religious, and Devotional Poetry.” Dr. Davies
traced the beautiful idea involved in the adoption of the word pathos
from the Greek into the English language, and illustrated by copious
readings from Tennyson’s In Memoriam, the “Babe Christabel ” of
Gerald Massey, and other poems, how the deepest pathos attaches to
the subject of (so-called) death, especially the deaths of children.
Drawing a distinction between the religious poetry of the closet and
the devotional verse used in public worship (a distinction adopted for
present convenience, which the lecturer did not propose pressing to
extremes), Dr. Davies took specimens of George Herbert, and especially
of Longfellow, to illustrate the former, and culled largely from the
hymns of Keble and Faber in exemplification of the latter branch. .He
also read an original poem, suggested by a touching incident in clerical
experience, called “ In Heaven on Christmas Day.” The character of
the subject enabled Mr. Tamplin to “illustrate” more successfully in his
splendid performance on the harmonium. The idea of these lectures is
unique, and the execution of it, like everything attempted by Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory, excellent. Dr. Davies judiciously abridges his
discourse, and divides it into portions, so as to relieve it with music.
These lectures have been altogether successful, and all concerned in
carrying them out may be congratulated on the results.
cP
(3*
J
12
fr^
tiff.
Volume Teju Kumber Sixteen.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 20th, 1877.
182
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 20, 1877.
INVESTIGATORS’ SEANCES. | |
On Thursday last, the 12th inst., the seances for inquirers | |
re-commenced at 38, Great Russell-street, after the Easter j j
recess. The medium was Mr. Eglinton, and ten persons were j |
present. The test, which consisted in sewing the medium’s ! |
shirt-sleeves tightly together behind his back, and his coat in |j|
front, was effectually applied by. Miss Allen. Mr. Eglinton j j
was then placed in his seat by Mr. W. H. Coffin, his head j j
and shoulders being concealed behind the curtain of the j j
cabinet, and his feet and knees being in view, in the manner | j
usually adopted at these | |
Before Mr. Coffin had taken his seat in the circle, a hand | |
was thrust out between the curtains, and a ring from the | |
medium’s finger thrown into the middle of the room. This | |
happened so quickly and suddenly, that it was only seen by a j |
few in the circle. As I happened to be next to the cabinet, j j
I saw the hand quite distinctly; it was also seen by Mr. j j
Coffin, and an inquirer. j |
After this a voice from the cabinet suggested that as the I
“ power ” was good, still further tests should be applied, in j
order that the manifestations might be more convincing to j
the inquirers present. Mr. Coffin therefore tied the medium’s j !
wrists together with tape, which he secured firmly to the j
chair rails, the sewing of the shirt-sleeves still remaining )|
intact. !|
With the exception ot some movements of the curtain, i j
and another ring being dropped from the medium’s finger !|
inside the cabinet, no further manifestations took place, I
neither could we learn from the accustomed “voice’’the j
cause of this sudden cessation of operations which began with j
power and gave promise of a successful seance.
After sitting patiently for an hour and a half, we had a j
slight break, and then sat again for ten minutes, but without |
results of any kind. Emily Kislingbury, |
Secretary, British National Association of Spiritualists, |;}|
April 14th. ill
I fully concur in the above account. W. H. Coffin.
TWO HOURS WITH A MATERIALISED SPIRIT.
BY ENRICO BONDI.
On the 23rd of last month I was kindly invited to a seance in a
private family, where I had been introduced a few weeks previously by
a friend of mine, who takes great interest in the development of the
medium. I had already had the pleasure of sitting in this family
circle twice before, and at those two seances I had seen phenomena
convincing me beyond any doubt of the great power of the medium.
' I attended punctually at the hour appointed. I mention this simply
because several times I have been at seances when visitors, arriving
after the commencement, interrupted the seance, and by so doing not
only spoiled the best of the manifestations, but injured the health of the
medium.
I was once present at a seance in the house of a private medium; I
when the materialisation was taking place new-comers arrived, and
were invited to sit; the consequence was that the medium after the
seance left the room and has never been well since.
The apartment in which the seance was held was a small front
drawing-room, about fourteen feet square; a sofa, piano, a round table
and a few chairs, were all the furniture in the room. The cabinet was
formed by fixing an iron bar over the sofa; two curtains of the usual
damask were attached to the bar so as to cover the sofa all round and
leave only the top open. The circle was composed of Mrs. N., the
mother of the medium (whose name I am not permitted to mention at
present), Mr. B., a friend ot the family, and myself. No strangers, as
far as I am aware, are admitted to these seances, in order, I was told, to
avoid inevitable trouble and annoyance to the family, especially when
scoffers and unbelievers are admitted. Not a few strangers to the
phenomena think they may be permitted to put any silly questions they
please, and to treat the dear departed ones as servants or worse. I
have been present at seances when a visitor asked if the spirit would
bring him an elephant; another wished to have her husband who was
in Africa, and so on; if the spirits do not gratify such wishes the thing
is pronounced all humbug.
At half-past eight the door of the seance room was locked inside, j
We sat thus: the medium lying on the sofa, dressed in dark colours,
and covered with a dark grey rug; I, facing the cabinet; on my left
was the sister of the medium, a little girl of about eight years of j
age; on my right was Mr. B., near one corner of the piano, and Mrs.
N. sat at the other. corner. A lantern giving at will three different
lights, viz., white, red, and blue, was near Mr. B., so as to enable him
to give more or less light, or to change the colour, according to instruc¬
tions from the spirit. We sat quietly, perhaps a quarter of an hour or j
so. Then came a clear voice from the cabinet, saying, “ Good evening,
* The powers of this medium are developing in private, under the guidance of Mr.
Charles Blackburn, who wisely excludes all curiosity-hunters and ignorant people who
come to spirit circles as authorities—not to gain information.—Ed.
friends.” It was the voice of the spirit “ Lillie.” She called me by my
name, asked me how I was, and repeated the question to all of us in
turn. I then asked her if she could show herself that evening. “ I
hope so," she replied; “ I have invited you this evening that you may
be gratified in that wish.”
Before proceeding, it is well to state that I went on that occasion in
consequence of a special invitation I had received at a previous seance
from this spirit. A few minutes afterwards I saw the curtains drawn a
little, and from the aperture I perceived something white moving. “ Is
it you, Lillie?” I asked. “ Yes, it is I. Wait a few minutes, and you
will see me.” Not many minutes elapsed before I saw two very pretty
small hands opening the curtains, and the figure of a young girl,
arrayed in white, stood erect, like a marble statue, and looking straight
at me, but only for a few seconds. Then the curtains were again
closed.
From the inside she asked me to go near the cabinet. I rose from my
seat, and went quite close to it. The curtains were soon opened again,
and keeping them so with both hands she directed Mr. B. to lower the
light a little, so as to get, she said, “more power,” and thus to give me
an opportunity later on to see her better. Mr. B. accordingly subdued
the light; however, there was still sufficient emanating from the lantern
to make visible every object in the room, and to enable me to see her
plainly. I then shook hands with her, and was allowed to examine and
feel her arm, shoulder, and clavicle bone; the latter was rather pro¬
minent. She wore a kind of evening dress, cut low at the neck, and no
sleeves; the head was well dressed in a white handkerchief. Before
coming out she thanked me for a bouquet of flowers I had brought for
her, and put in a glass over the mantelshelf.
I then asked her if she could come out and take it herself. “ As
soon as I have more power I will try to do so,” was the reply. While
so speaking, and I holding her hand, she asked me to lend her my two
rings; I gave them both, and she put one on each finger, and seemed
delighted with them, and quite pleased/with my giving them to her with¬
out hesitation. “ Just fancy,” she said, “ one evening at a seance I
asked a gentleman to lend me his rings, but he refused; he was probably
afraid I should take them away with me.” After this conversation she
retired for a few minutes, and on reopening the curtains said she could
now bear stronger light; more was given, and I could see her much
better than before. Her complexion was rather pallid, but not
unpleasantly so. Mr. B. asked me what difference I as an artist could
observe between her and the medium. In carefully examining her
features I found the eyes very small, the nose shorter, and of a different
shape, and the mouth and chin much smaller than those of the medium;
in fact, quite another face. On looking at her so closely, with her head
well dressed with a white handkerchief, it reminded me at the moment
of one of those pretty and beautiful faces that we see in one of the
early pictures of Raphael, called Lo Sposalisio, now in the Brera
Gallery at Milan. I said to her, “ What a pretty girl you are!” She liked
the compliment, and asked me if I should like to take her portrait. “ Of
course; I should be delighted to do it.” She asked how many sittings I
should require, and how long she had to sit each time. I told her, and
she replied that on some future day she hoped to be able to do so.
Having said as much, I must also add that on examining her closely I
could trace such a resemblance to the medium, as can very often be
traced between sisters. I invited her once more to come out and take
the bouquet herself.
She stepped out, took my left arm, walked three or four paces, and
then stopped, saying, “ I can’t go any further.” Being close to the
mantel-shelf, I took the bouquet, and gave it to her. She took it, and
with both hands arranged it on her breast, as a lady would do. Then,
standing out of the cabinet, she called Mrs. N. to go near her; Mrs. N.
did so, spoke to her, and kissed her.
Turning round to me, she begged me to sit down close to the curtains,
and she retired. She was not long away, and I soon saw her drawing
the curtains aside. I got up from my seat, and, on looking at her
very closely, it seemed to me that she had grown larger, and that her
features were more fully developed. On remarking that to her, she replied
that I was right, as she had now more power. I again examined her
hands and arms, and found them much warmer than before, and more
fleshy, the clavicle having almost disappeared. I felt her pulse, which
was beating very slowly indeed. I then took my handkerchief, and
begged her to make a knot on it; my object in doing so was to see how
she could use her fingers. She took it from me, and without any hesi¬
tation, twisted it in such a way that I could not understand how it was
done. In giving it back to me she remarked, “ What a beautiful scent
you have 1”
She then went inside the cabinet for a minute or so; on her re¬
appearing I asked if she would permit me to cut a piece out of her
dress. “ Yes, you can do so; but at the upper part, not the lower.” I
asked what was the difference between the one and the other. “ Because
the lower is borrowed; as the upper is only materialised from the
atmosphere, it does not matter if you cut a piece.” She then came
more forward, and with both hands she took out a piece of her dress
from the breast; I got hold of the piece with my left hand, and with the
right I gave a horizontal cut with the scissors; she remarked that I
was cutting a very small piece. I said that if she could spare it I would
take a larger piece; she put out more, and I gave a right angle cut,
and took a much larger one. “What will you do now with your
dress so cut?” I asked. “I will show you what we do.”
She retired back a little, put the edges close together, and covering the
hole with the palm of her hand, she rubbed it a little, then coming for¬
ward, she showed it to me, and to my utter astonishment I could see no
trace whatever as to where the piece had been cut. I then asked her if
she was standing on her materialised legs ? “ No; on my spiritual
ones.” “Can you let me feel a materialised foot?” “Yes, I can, if
you wait.” In a minute or two she asked me to feel the foot. I put
my hand over her dress, and drew it down gently till I felt one foot ? I
183
Apeil 20, 1877. THE SPIEITUALIST.
took it with my left hand; it was a naked foot; I felt the bones and ijl
nails like those of a human foot, but rather cold. The medium had on her I li
shoes and stockings. While so scrutinising it, she said, <{Do not press |jj
it too much.” I then asked if she could rest her body on my hand, as j ji
I wanted to feel the weight of it. I put my left hand flat on the floor, |)j
and she rested her foot over it, and I felt just the weight of a human jjj
body; while resting so, with the right hand I tried to find the other foot, j j
but could not trace it. Ijj
After this experiment I asked her for another test. “I will do all | |
that I possibly can; I have invited you, and therefore I will endeavour j j
to satisfy you this evening. What is it you want P” “I should like you to j !
go to the piano with me, and play something.” Lillie at once acceded j j
to my request, and coming out from the cabinet I offered her my left ! !
arm, and taking hold of it she walked to the piano with me, as a lady ! !
would do in a drawing-room, and she played. - jjj
I then said that if she would accompany me I would sing an Italian ! j j
song, but I received no answer, and, to my great surprise, on turning ! j
my head to the left, I found that she had vanished. Mrs. N was j j
seated, as I have previously stated, near one corner of the piano, quite j j|
close to her, admiring, as she said to me, her long white dress, but she | jl
did not see her disappear. jji
Astonished, I asked, “ Where are you, Lillie? ” j j
The sweet voice of the spirit answered from inside the cabinet,<c I am j j
here 1 I have been summoned away.” '• jj
I went again near the curtains, and I asked why she had so quickly j j
gone and left me at the piano alone. “ Well,” she said, “suppose that jjj
two persons were to call you, a lady and a gentleman, at the same ijj
time, which would you obey? ” I said, “The lady, of course.” “So I
did 1,” she replied. “ My medium had moved, and I was obliged to be i j
near her.” jj
She soon opened the curtains again, and stepped forwards, took hold j l
of my arm, and said, “Let us all sing a song.” The song began, and j j
Lillie, with a beautiful and clear voice, joined from the beginning to j j
the end. I could not sing much myself. While so standing, and jj
resting with herself on my arm, I fell into deep thought, and was asking j j
myself, “Have I a spirit under my arm, or a living person?” At j)
that moment, I felt myself overwhelmed in thinking of the wonders j j
that God had given me to witness that evening. j j
As soon as the song was over, I said, “ Will you give me one more j j
test ? ” The answer was, “ I will if I can. What is it ? ” I replied, j j
“ I want a crucial test; I want to feel the medium’s hands with yours j j
at the same time.” “ Yes, you can do so.” And without any hesita- j j
tion whatever she at once grasped my hands with both hers and put j j
them over those of the medium, which to my great surprise I found j j
thin, cold, and fleshless ; in moving my hands a little, I felt the sleeves I j
of the medium’s dress (Lillie, as I have stated before, had no sleeves), j j
She then withdrew my hands from those of the medium, and said, jj
“ Are you satisfied now ? ” “ Yes, I am, and I thank you very much.” ; j
I am satisfied that there was no transformation, as it seems some j j
Spiritualists believe. Where could there be. transformation, I should jj
like to know, with six hands joined together at the same time ? Think- j j
ing the seance was over I thanked the good Lillie and all the spirits jj
who helped her in the wonderful manifestations I had seen, and jj
speaking thus to her, I said that I had never had an evening like that j
one during the sixteen years that I had attended spiritual seances, and j
that it would never be erased from my memory as long as I lived.
The seance, however, was not over. j j
She said, “Would you like now to sit in the cabinet near the jj
medium ? ” I answered that nothing would give me more pleasure, j j
as I expected to see of course both spirit and medium at the same j
time. I followed her at once, and with my hands tried to find a j
comer near the medium, and sat close by her feet. I soon looked |
round for Lillie, but I could not see her. “ Where are you, Lillie ?” I j
exclaimed, but no answer; I strained my eyes trying to see if any j
object was moving, but in vain. j
The white figure which only a moment before had been close by me j
had absolutely vanished. Two or three times I repeated the ques- j
tion, “ Lillie, where are you ? ” But a perfect silence prevailed. A j
few minutes elapsed. I put my hand over those of the medium and j
felt a ring that she wore, but not mine, which as I previously said I j
had lent to Lillie at the beginning of the seance. Ten minutes passed j
in this way, I resting my hands upon the medium’s, and my legs jj
touching hers. I then called again, “ Lillie, Lillie, where are you?” jj
Then came far away from the medium’s head, the voice of Lillie, “I j j
am here.” “ What are you doing ? ” I asked. “ I am trying to show jj
you another phenomenon, if I can, but you must wait patiently for jj
a few minutes.” jj
I answered I would wait as long as she wished me, but I begged her j j
not to overwork the medium. She replied, “ The power is now very jj
strong, and I hope to do something more for you this evening.” While jj
thus waiting, I found myself surrounded, first with dark, and then ij
white clouds flitting about. The atmosphere grew gradually jj
whiter and whiter. At the moment I had an impression that I jj
should see some other spirits, but nothing of the kind happened. A jj
few minutes later Lillie came near me, touching my face with both j j
hands, and giving me back my two rings with thanks. She then spoke j j
thus : “ Some think that sitting constantly with the same influence is j j
good; I do not believe so. Change now and then, with good influence, jj
helps me very much. When will you come again?” I replied, jj
“Whenever I am invited I will come, if you think I can help you.” jj
Mrs. N. then asked what time it was. I took out my watch and struck j j
the repeater; it was ten o’clock. Lillie seemed very pleased at the j j
sound, and said she had never heard such a thing before. To please jj
her, I struck again. “ Quite wonderful,” she said, and counted half- j j
past ten. j j
We spoke for a few minutes; then I asked if she could do what she j j
had promised. “ I am trying, but I do not think I can succeed this
evening,” she replied. “ However, wait a few minutes longer.” She
then went far away from me, and called one sitter after the other—
Mrs. IN., Mr. B., and the little girl—shook hands with them, and
wished them good night, but I could not see her. She returned to me,
took both my hands, and said, “ I am very sorry I cannot do this
evening what I intended; the power is fast going, and I must leave
you, but I will soon send you another invitation.”
I kissed her hands; she likewise kissed mine, saying, “ I am going—
I am going. Good night—good night to you all.”
The curtains were soon opened, and I found the medium lying on.
the sofa as before, in a sound trance. She soon awoke.
I have omitted many other incidents which occurred during those
two happy hours I had the pleasure of being with this spirit, and for
two reasons—the first, in order not to make this narration too long,
and the second, because I shall most probably have to record, on a
future occasion, another seance more wonderful, perhaps, than this one.
I will then narrate in full what I have omitted in this.
Before concluding, I feel it my bounden duty to say a few words of
thanks to the family for their kindness in having afforded me the
opportunity of seeing and investigating these wonderful phenomena;
also for the facilities I had to convince and satisfy myself beyond any
doubt that what I saw that evening was not trickery or imposition.
After investigating spiritual phenomena for sixteen years, I think I
have acquired sufficient experience to separate what is genuine from
what is not. For all this, I well know that some who read what I have
recorded will laugh and scoff at the idea of passing two hours with a
materialised spirit; but I am well prepared for it. Others will say
“ Impossible,” and that I have been imposed upon from beginning to
end, or that it was all hallucination. My answer to the first is this :
That I have yet to learn that laughing and scoffing have ever done any
good to science, or helped to solve any difficult problem. To others, I
will simply quote a few words from the greatest of astronomers—
Arago : “ The man who, outside of pure mathematics, pronounces the
word ‘Impossible’ is wanting in prudence.”
22, Mpntague-place, Russell-square, London, April, 1877.
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY.
To the Public : At a meeting of the Theosophical Society held this
day, the statement having been read from a London journal that D. D.
Home, the medium, will devote some portion of his forthcoming work
to “ The Theosophical Society; its vain quest for sylphs and gnomes,”
and other matters pertaining to the organisation, a committee was
appointed to make known the following facts:—
1. The Theosophical Society has been from the first a secret organi¬
sation.
2. The communication of any particulars as to its affairs, except by
direct authority, would be a dishonourable act.
3. The medium in question cannot possibly have any knowledge of
these matters, except from persons who have long ceased to be members
and have violated their obligations, or persons discredited and disgraced
in the eyes of the society at a very early period of its history. There¬
fore, whatever statements he may publish cannot be relied upon or
verified.
Whether this society, or sections, or individual members have seen
“ elementary ” or other spirits at its meetings concerns themselves
alone. They will act as judges themselves when any phenomena have
occurred that are suitable to give to the public. That magical phe¬
nomena do sometimes happen in presence of members of the society,
and when strangers can witness them may be inferred from the editorial
description which appeared in the New York World of Monday last.
The Theosophical Society is quietly prosecuting those subjects which
interest the members, careful to neither infringe upon any persons
rights nor to transcend its own legitimate field. In advance, therefore,
of any authoritative report of its own doings, it is unprofitable to pass
judgment upon biassed inferences made by third parties upon the
allegations either of those who do not know the truth, or such as by an
act of treachery have proved themselves incapable of speaking it.
Henry S. Olcott, president; R. B. Westbrook, D.D., Professor Alex.
Wilder, M.D., vice-presidents; H. P. Blavatsky, cor. sec.; G. L.
Ditson, M.D.; H. J. Billing, M.D.; L. M. Marquette, M.D.; W. Q.
Judge (counsel); H. D. Monachesi; Mortimer Marble; Solon J.
Ylasto; J. F. Oliver, and C. C. Massey, committee of the Theosophical
Society. (Official copy.) A. Gustam, Secretary.
New York (P. 0. Box 4,335), March 30th, 1877.
Inquiries are often made in London for a good, well-certificated,
clairvoyant, or seer, with nobody to meet the demand.
Spirit Identity.—It appears, from the Summerville (Mass.) Citizen,
that some time ago a well-known citizen of Dorchester, Mass., visited
Mrs. Jennie Potter, and, without making herself known, asked for a
sitting. It was during a holiday; Mrs. Potter was deep in the'mys¬
teries of the culinary department, and sent word that she could not
see him. Before the messenger had delivered her answer, she Was
seized with an uncontrollable impulse to recall it, and, hurrying after
the messenger, with her hands covered with flour, she found herself in
the presence of a gentleman whom she had never before seen. Mrs.
Potter is a trance medium, and when she recovered from her uncon¬
scious state, she found the gentleman bathed in tears. Immediately
after she had lost consciousness the spirit of his wife, who had been
killed by being thrown from her carriage a week before, addressed him
by his given name (Nathaniel), stating her joy at having the oppor¬
tunity to speak to him, recounting the circumstances of her death,
time, and place, and talking with him on family matters known only
to themselves. All this was news to Mrs. Potter, as she knew nothing
of what had been said.—Religio-Philosophical Journal,
184
THE SPIRITUALIST.
AniiL 20, IS17.
MEDICAL MENTAL SCIENCE.
BY WILLIAM HITCHMAN, M.R.C.S.
In the year 1837 I commenced an investigation of those
anatomical changes in the structure of the brain, and its
membranes, which were then supposed to indicate insanity,
or other physical anomalies during organic life. In some
cases I found, both in British and foreign hospitals for the
insane, congested blood vessels, increased serous secretions,
thickened membranes, depositions of lymph, morbid adhe- I
sions, watery effusions, extravasation of blood, and abcesses.
Material organic cause, therefore, for abnormal mental j
action, sufficient indeed to account for the altered nature of |
human feelings and intellectual faculties. Oftener, however, j
have I found the mental functions disturbed without appre- j
ciable deviation from healthy structure, either in the head, j
chest,' or abdomen of insane persons. Am I again to be j
told (as Sir William Lawrence formerly assured me) that j
digestion may be impaired without recognisable organic j
change, or the biliary secretion deranged in the absence of j
diseased liver; in short, that the hemispherical ganglia may j
be disordered, sympathetically, like other parts of the human !
machine? But this is clearly not the whole truth in regard j
to the pathological anatomy of mental diseases in 1877. j
There still remains a number of problematical cases, I
whether previously obsessed or possessed, or neither the one j
nor the other, in the dead-house of every lunatic asylum |J
where the cranial cavity and its contents are novo revealing j1
the most natural relations in every form of madness. Ob- jj
viously, therefore, scalpel and forceps have not yet found |J
the soul or spirit of man, and after death there is really | <
nothing wrong in the outward and visible body. <( He dies 11
and makes no sign.” Physically, this is so. Scientific I
materialism, with all its great results, still emits more cloud j<
and smoke than flame and light in this department of |j
psychological medicine. If heat be the true effect of the |J
reciprocal action of two different classes of atoms, elec- [i
tricity being produced only on particular atmospheric I
terms—if brain and mind be correlative and transitional, j
—life, perhaps, in molecular bodies, is the inevitable result j
of the atomic force of natural compounds, when brought into j
contact under certain conditions. Some such answer as this, j
I apprehend, is the chief outcome of recent mental science at !
home and abroad. At the same time, I see no incongruity, |
or impossibility, in the coincidence of belief in Spiritualism !
and materialism, in one and the same experienced mind. |
Why may not each secular society, for example, result in a j
Spiritual association, on becoming adequately conversant jj
with the revelations of Almighty Power, in form of God, or |
Nature, concerning other spheres, and a future existence !
involving other atoms ? That the potential of human j
spirituality was once contained in some nebulous patch of j
light, is not an impossible fact in the eyes of recent philo- !
sophy, and may be asserted with rational confidence, since it j
matters not whether we call ourselves Spiritualists or |
Materialists, if it be really true that mind, in nature, is the !
Spirit of God; and that the mechanism of body and soul, |
here or elsewhere, is divinely executed in conformity to the j
plan of evolution rather than creation. Hie omnia regit, non j
ut anima mundi, sed ut universorum dominus, says the I
spiritual Pantheist. Why else are special faculties now !
present, anon absent, in different parts of the vegetable |
kingdom? Feebly apparent, I find them, moreover, in the |
Protozoa and Coelenterata, but slightly visible, again, in the |
Mollusca; manifested yet further, indeed, with wonderful |
perfection, in the Insecta and Arachnida; comparatively in j
abeyance utterly among the Pisces and fteptilia; once more
very strongly developed in the Aves, and many others. It j
seems to me that Spiritualism is the Higher Materialism, as j
I reflect that the most advanced knowledge of the Seen- !
larist is fairly surpassed by the demonstrative science of the |
Spiritualist. Elementary molecules have capacities for our j
organic needs, yet from the beginning of time and space i
material nature has manifested (so far as we know) the !
spiritual attributes of Intelligent Will throughout the whole |
universe of things. In fact, the phenomena of the highest !
mind as well as the lowest matter, when philosophically j
interpreted, serve to deepen one’s conviction that Spirit- j
ualism, as the exponent invincible of continuity of life, not ii
j theological but natural, is the grandest of truths, inasmuch
I as by its culture and development we arrive at the “ know-
j ableness” of the Angel World, and that the certainty is now
j mathematical of a soul, that rises in a spiritual body, at
j each last day of the individual mortal coil, which soul shall
! be our life’s star hereafter, brilliant or eclipsed with good or
j evil thoughts and deeds. To those pathologists who now
j advocate an exclusive view of recent mental science (and
| seek to base a changeable thing of flesh and blood on the
i anatomical elements of cerebral organisation, and call it the
j human soul), I would say in the words of Goethe—convey-
| ing as they do to me from 1837 to 1877 a deep practical
1 lesson in each dissecting room—
j | Alas! the spirit is withdrawn—
j | That which informed the mass is gone.
You scrutinise man when he ceases to be himself,
j | Finger and feel flesh, and call such
(| Experiments, “ Analysis !”
jj Obsession from without, and possession from within)
jj leave no physical effects. Verily, one may find u the Word
| of God” not only in forty-eight languages of man, but
I throughout the atoms, germs, and molecules of the spiritual
j and material universe. Pathology not being the key-stone
i of the arch of psychology, may each Spiritualist give to the
j world the good fruit of better sowing, and surmount all
j difficulties of further progress, as he remembers the saying
i of a noble Roman poet:
Multa dies variusque labor mutabilis oevi
Hetulit in melius.
ij ON SOME OF THE MORAL AND RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF
SPIRITUALISM.*
BY EMILY KISLINGBURY.
During my visit to Paris last autumn, I had the honour
[j of being introduced, at a little gathering of Spiritualists, to
jj a well-known French lawyer, who is said to be a strong ally
11 of the Jesuits. After some guarded conversation on both
§ sides, for we were each equally suspicious of the other, the
j lawyer said : “ Mademoiselle, has the study of Spiritualism
| in your country the tendency to lead people away from reli-
I gion ? ” I replied, “ My answer depends upon what you
| understand by religion; if by religion, you mean a church
j which refuses to modify its teachings in accordance with
! the advance of knowledge, I should answer in the
j affirmative, for Spiritualism certainly has the tendency
to overthrow belief grounded merely on authority; but if you
j mean the aspiration after a higher and nobler life, then
Spiritualism, as I understand it, tends to make men more
| religious.” The ally of the Jesuits replied, “ Mademoiselle,
r your answer is extremely well formulated,” and passed on to
j less dangerous topics.
The gist of my subject this evening might, if put into a
j few words, be summed up as above ; but the points I think
j we may specially consider, are, What are the actual aspects
j of Spiritualism from the moral and religious standpoints ?
| How far does it satisfy our religious aspirations, and influence
I our moral life ?
It is claimed by some that Spiritualism supersedes
i the need for any form of religion whatever, because it demon-
j strates by proof that which religion supplies by means of
| belief. Faith in immortality becomes swallowed up in sight,
i belief is replaced by knowledge. But does this necessarily
! make men better ? Does the sight of one risen from the
| dead (assuming the fact of personal identity in our spiritual
! visitants) make us purer, and wiser, and holier, than we were
] before ? It has been said that Spiritualism, the knowledge
I that spirits can move solid objects, and can appear to us
| under certain conditions, conveys no moral teaching, has no
| power to move us to deeds of charity, of generosity, of self-
j sacrificing love. Granted. But these phenomena do not
j constitute the whole of Spiritualism. If we sum up the
!j great mass of teachings that have been given through
trance or writing mediums, and even by the slow processes
'j of raps or tilts, in addition to the little we have learned
II from the direct utterances of materialised spirits, we shall
|| find that they do convey, at least, this one great lesson, that
1 man reaps the reward of his deeds, for good or for evil, not
I * A Paper read before the Marylebone Association of Inquirers into Spiritua’ism, last
Tuesday night.
April 20, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 185
only in the next life, but also in this, internally if not ex- j|
ternally. And in this doctrine, if thoroughly grasped, lies, ij
I think, the superior power of Spiritualism as a moral in- [-
fluence over the mere fear of punishment, as taught by |
Christian, or, rather, Jewish theology, as wielded by human
law. The thief knows that he will go to prison if he is I
caught; but all depends upon the if; and the excitement
attaching to the chances of escape only adds pleasure to the
deed.. The fear of punishment does not deter him from the j
act. In the same way, the believer in eternal punishment is j
not morally influenced, simply, I suppose, because his belief [
is shadowy and unreal. The Spiritualist knows that there is
no escape; a man must be caught, and his punishment
begins with the commission of the wrong act. The desire
of the true Spiritualist becomes, therefore, to know and
show himself as he is, that he may not deceive either him¬
self or others, seeing that he must be found out—to do
away with shams, with false appearances, with unmeaning
superficialities and conventionalities. He would root out the
false everywhere, and substitute the true. He would inaugu¬
rate a new order of society, in which not he who makes the |
most show is the most regarded, but he who has the purest j
heart and leads the most upright life.
But is not this after all, you may say, only the old Jewish j
system of rewards and punishments, and is it not the sign of |
a higher nature to practise virtue for its own sake, to follow i
truth without thinking of the gain which it will bring?
Most certainly; but if we find that it does reward us, we
shall not therefore cease to follow it. If to act from know¬
ledge be less moral than to act from faith, then the more
ignorant we remain, the more virtuous we shall become, j
But I need not follow this train of argument further.
I contend, therefore, that Spiritualism, by means of
knowledge, will increase our appreciation of the highest
morality, and that by degrees the world will become truer
and better in consequence.
I believe equally that Spiritualism has power to influence
the religious side of our nature. A knowledge of the rela¬
tions of our spirits to the Highest Spirit, and to the
intermediate spirits between us and Him; a knowledge of
the true methods and real uses of prayer; of how to !
awaken aspiration, to inspire hope in despair, to administer
consolation in sorrow, to save the tempted, to raise the
fallen, will be surely so much gain to poor struggling
human nature. The churches have, it is true, been working
in this direction for centuries to the best of their ability,
and all honour to them for their labour and their love ; but
the dim candle of faith has often misled men into paths of
error which they would have avoided if they had been left
to their own unassisted instincts, and the world is reaping
the consequence of those errors in forms of religion which
are incapable of binding men’s consciences or of appealing
to their reason. A religion which meets the real necessities
of the human spirit, because it is based on a knowledge of
its powers and attributes, and which can support its
teachings by demonstration, will have a real influence
in reforming men’s lives; and for the intellectual difficulties
which beset religion, all the perplexities which now sur¬
round the subjects of fate, free-will, original sin, and the
existence of evil, will disappear as we learn more of the
nature of spirit, of its action here, and of its life beyond
the grave. Now comes the question, Does Spiritualism
make men better ? Are not Spiritualists as untruthful,
quarrelsome, jealous and uncharitable as non-Spiritualists ?
If they are so, it is because they are only half Spiritualists ;
because they mistake phenomenalism for the whole of
Spiritualism. And here I must express what I fear not
many here will agree with, that we English Spiritualists
require to cultivate that side of our subject which constitutes
the beginning and end of Continental Spiritualism, the
receiving of spirit-teachings through trance and writing
mediumship, and the assembling ourselves together to learn
not only about physical facts, but about the facts of spiritual
existence, which cannot apparently be conveyed to us as
directly when the spirit beyond is required to clothe itself
in our robes of flesh, and to force itself back into the con¬
ditions of matter. Would it not be well for us to hold
more frequent circles for the development of the mentally-
given phenomena, with a view to eliciting further knowledge
of the higher life of spirits, and to gaining perchance thereby
some deeper insight into that of our own spirits, their action
and destiny, of how and'whence we come, and whither we
go?
I do not think that the attempts that have hitherto been
made to furnish us with devotional exercises, in the form of
Spiritualist Sunday services, have been successful; nor can
I believe that Spiritualism will create an entirely new form
of worship. In the past each new religion has been grafted
upon the old, and the spirit has gradually passed from the
one to the other. Christianity grew in the first place out of
Judaism, and finally became assimilated with the heathen
forms of the various countries in which it took root. It
I seems more likely that Spiritualism will enter into the
| churches, and gradually modify and revivify the ancient
forms; that a new church will grow organically out of the
old, and that a new spirit will enter into it. I know that
I this is not the opinion of some of the most earnest and
deep-thinking Spiritualists, who are entitled to be heard
I with respect; they are in favour of sweeping away worn-
out creeds and forms, and inventing fresh ones, or doing
without them altogether. To me it seems that if we
'I attempt to do without, we shall lose something which
II appealed to our best instincts, and satisfied our highest
\\ aspirations; more than that, encouraged a holy frame of
|| mind, and which was an incentive to noble deeds.
So that, after all, while Spiritualism on the one hand
! replaces our former faith by knowledge, faith itself is en-
j larging its borders, and pushing forward into domains as
j much beyond the reach of science as those which science
j has now conquered were once beyond its ken. The Infinite
j is ever widening to our astonished gaze the higher we
I climb, so that there is no danger of our having to sigh for
| new worlds to conquer. But while science is making sure of
j the ground beneath our feet, we need equally to be enabled
i to feel that there is a heaven above our heads, and therefore
II I plead that the spiritual side of our subject is the one
; which requires more special attention and development
j among English Spiritualists,
Before closing these few remarks, I wish to make it clearly
| understood that I do not intend to imply that it is the duty
| of Spiritualists to rest wholly in their Spiritualism. In fact,
j I lean so strongly to the contrary opinion that I am glad of
I this opportunity of appealing publicly to Spiritualists to be
,| up and doing in the world’s work. The knowledge which
II Spiritualism affords us of the continuance of man’s
»| existence after leaving the body, enables us to estimate more
|j highly and more correctly than others not possessing that
|| knowledge the importance of his life here, as a step in his
(I education. I should like, therefore, to see Spiritualists
taking part in all the great movements for social reform, for
|j the education of the people, and for the improvement of
ij public health and morality. Many of these movements are
| largely aided, if not wholly inaugurated, by those calling
1 themselves Agnostics or Materialists; and if they, with
i their dim light or utter darkness about the future, are
| willing to give their energies for the improvement and well-
| being of the race, surely we should not wish to be behind
| them. Instead then of Spiritualists undertaking to found
I new social institutions apart from the rest of the world, I
would recommend their going in heart and hand with the
j great social reformers of the day, and let them be in the
| vanguard of the battle, bearing the brunt of the fight. Let
i them work on the School Boards, for the public schools for
| girls with Mrs. William Grey, for the improvement of laws
affecting the labour and position of women (for I am speak-
| ing more especially to women), for opening the museums
! and picture galleries on Sunday with the Sunday Society, or
| for the reform of the Lunacy Laws—laws very likely to in-
| fringe on the liberty of Spiritualists; in short, in whatever way
j they may have opportunity or ability. I think that Spirit¬
ualists are in some danger of being too much absorbed by
their Spiritualism, that is, making it an end in itself, instead
j of a means to nobler living and acting. The day may come
j when we have schools, and churches, and other institutions
| of our own, but I rather doubt the desirability of this; it
would tend to sectarian narrowness, and the battle against
authority would have to be fought over again. Let Spirit¬
ualists organise among themselves for their own proper
186
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 2»), 1877.
objects, and for carrying out more effectively their special
work; but let those who are not actually engaged in the
development of the movement go out into the world’s work,
bearing in their hearts a secret consolation and knowledge
which will sustain them through the heat and burden of the
day, and which they can impart to others who shall see their
light, and who shall desire to walk by it because of its
unexampled and exceeding brightness.
LOVE THE TRUTH AND PEACE,
Zechariah viii. 19.
BY MAURICE DAVIES, D.D.
Love thou the Truth. All else above, beside,
Love thou with all thy heart God’s holy Truth;
As, in the passionate embrace of youth,
One clasps into his bosom a chaste bride.
Re true and just, despising earthly pelf,
As, in the brave unworldly days of old,
Men loved the Truth far more than life or gold,
So dare to he, and show thou art, thyself.
God’s own original. Care thou no whit
Though fashion or society may frown,
* Or smaller souls upon thyself look down:
Be anything except a hypocrite.
And yet he gentle. Deem not all must bow
To forms which for thyself exhaust the truth.
Be tolerant; expecting not, forsooth,
That all shall see God’s verities as thou.
Beliefs are sacred. Even as our sun
Lights up the glittering wanderers of the sky,
And some mid orb gilds all the galaxy.
So Truth is manifold, but God is One.
Love the old ways. Yet marvel not though some
Far out to foreign countries thence may stray.
Wait. Yet perhaps, on some o’ershadowed day,
Back to Truth’s fold the wanderer may come.
Let all harsh words, all gtrife and clamour cease.
Think of thy Saviour ; how no angry word
Before the heathen Governor was heard.
Twine round Truth’s sword the olive branch of Peace.
Love Him: and in thy heart there will increase
The love of all that’s gentle, pure, and good,
Crowning thy manhood or thy womanhood
With Heaven’s own motto—“Love the Truth and Peace.”
Mr. John Leckenby.—The Scarborough Gazette, in the course of an
obituary notice of the late Mr. John Leckenby, banker, of Scarborough,
says :—“ Mr. Leckenby had almost throughout his life been an inde¬
fatigable and assiduous student of geology and paleontology. His
long-standing position as a member and director of the Scarborough
Philosophical and Archaeological Society was congenial to his tastes in
natural science, and he is known to- have spent many of his happiest
hours at the Society’s Museum, examining, arranging, and studying the
many beautiful specimens it contains. His private collections were
large and valuable, and were the admiration of his numerous scientific
friends and associates, amongst the latter being included many of the
most eminent geologists of the country. His collection of shells,
illustrating nearly every species known to British conchology, was
acknowledged to be the best and most valuable in England, with
perhaps but one exception. Mr. Leckenby was about the last survivor
of a well-known party of local men of science, amongst whom the late
Dr. Murray, the late Mr. Alderman Bean, the late Mr. W. Williamson,
and his son, Professor Williamson (now of Manchester), were promi¬
nent for their knowledge of the treasures of the coast and district about
Scarborough. Of late, Mr. Leckenby manifested much interest in the
phenomena of Spiritualism (so-called), and we believe he was in occasional
communication upon this subject with Mr. Serjeant Cox, Mr. Crookes, Mr.
C. Blackburn, and other gentlemen who have distinguished themselves
in their endeavours to reduce those phenomena—in the event of their
existence being proved to be undeniable—to a scientific basis. This
object has of late presented a new field for research ; and Mr.
Leckenby was known to have bestowed considerable thought on the
subject with the sole view of reducing the phenomena, if possible, to
a theory or system, and to ascertain and define the actual laws by
which the phenomena were produced and controlled. We have
nothing further to add to this imperfect sketch of the public life of our
deceased friend, save to record our assurance that his memory will long
live in the minds of all who knew him, who now mourn the loss of an
esteemed personal friend, or who look with sorrow upon the death of
one whose place in many walks of public life it will be difficult to fill.
Mr. Leckenby was in the sixty-fourth year of his age. His remains
will be interred to-morrow afternoon, in the family vault in St. Mary’s
parish churchyard. The funeral will np doubt take a public character.”
iMRS. WELDON’S SOCIAL EVENINGS.
On Monday evening last week, at the Langham Hall, Mr. Chas. Lunn,
who had come up from Edgbaston for the purpose, read an essay upon
the training of the voice, called, The Two Paths; or Conservation and
Restoration. The main point of his argument was that little or nothing
could be obtained by or known of a successful adult training of the
voice, and that “ woman’s wit and woman’s courage’’had solved the
difficulty by training children, as Mrs. Weldon does, from babyhood;
| instilling music into them from such an age in so systematic and con¬
stant a manner, that their ear becomes trained to sound before they
I begin to prattle. The following was the programme in its entirety; it
was carried out to the letter, with the exception of the last-mentioned
part song, Minguillo, by Charles Rawlings, and the hand-bell ringing,
as it was rather late before the meeting broke up:—
Mr. Charles K. Salaman will open the meeting with a few preliminary
I remarks. Mr. Charles Lunn will read an Essay, written by himself, on the
! Management of the Voice, called, “ The Two Paths, or Conservation and
| Restoration.” Ladies and gentlemen present are invited to make remarks
upon the subject, and to ask any question they wish upon Mrs. Weldon’s
! method of training the voice, principles of general education, and about the
i Orphanage. The children will give practical proofs and examples of their
! special training, as regards the voice. Katie (just three years old); Dagobert
I (about the same age); Bichette (two years and four months old) ; Tommie
j and Jackie (between four and five years old) ; Beryl (seven years old); and
Rosie (thirteen years old), will intone the Lord’s Prayer, alphabets in different
I languages, and sing such exercises as may be asked for.; Charles Rawlings
(nineteen years old), will sing “ Perche piangi ” (Gounod). Alfred Rawlings
(sixteen years old) will sing a bass song, of his own composition, “ Fisher
I Will.” Walter Rawlings (twelve years old) will sing, u Sweet baby, sleep ”
! t (Gounod). Mrs. Weldon will sing “ Gentle Lillie ” (0. Rawlings). Two part-
I songs, “Minguillo” (Charles Rawlings), and “When Love and Truth together
! played ” (Alfred Rawlings), will be sung ; and should there be time the
j Rawlings will ring on the Handbells some Music, arranged by themselves.
I Mr. Charles Salaman, secretary to the Musical Association of Great
j t i Britain, said that he had taken the chair that evening for the purpose of
!(| encouraging Mrs. Weldon in the difficult task she had undertaken. He
ji spoke in high terms of her devotion to her foundlings, of her perse-
i i verance and energy in spite of many obstacles, and during the course of
\{ | the evening proved himself a pleasant and efficient chairman.
11 i The essay by Mr. Lunn, from first to last, was listened to with atten-
Ition. It provoked no discussion. Mr. Ellis, F.R.S., the translator of
Sensations of Tone, by Helmholtz, reputed the best philologist in Lon¬
don, Mr. Ingleby, Mr. Lennox Browne, Dr. Llewelyn Thomas, Signor
Randegger, and many other gentlemen and ladies interested in the
subject, were present. The children, who were accompanied by Mrs.
Weldon on a tiny piano she held on her knees, and which—as, later on,
Mrs. Weldon informed the audience—had only been delivered that
afternoon, and that the children had not even rehearsed to it, acquitted
j themselves wonderfully. They intoned the Lord’s Prayer in perfect
|| time and tone, quite alone, a tiny little girl acting as clergyman, the
others clearly joining in the responses. They sang several exercises,
all tending to show, as Mr. Salaman explained, at how early an age
Mrs. Weldon succeeded in obtaining rhythm, a thing rarely attained,
even by the greatest musicians. They sang alone, in turn, and in suc¬
cessive keys, a curious nursery rhyme about a Crooked Man, composed
of chromatic intervals, which they one and all sang with accuracy and
i (I purity of intonation.
| | The singing of the Master Rawlings excited much interest. The
i | youngest.—Walter Rawlings—sung a Lullaby by Gounod in a sostinuto
j I pianissimo the whole way through, the song finishing on long drawn
j notes on the word “Sleep”—altogether a model of finished singing,
| \ | proving that a voice of mediocre quality, as his evidently is, by careful
|<j culture may give quite as much pleasure, even more, than an unculti-
i) I vated one of great power and sweetness of tone. Fisher Will was well
|)! sung, in a powerful bass voice, by the composer, and Gounod’s Perche
I (j piangi was sung by his brother in Italian, well pronounced. The part
song was charming, and excellently rendered by the little children as
well as by the elder ones, their voices all blending together in perfect
unity.
Mr. Salaman, at Mrs. Weldon’s request, informed the audience that
she should be sorry for any one to think any of her pupils did half as
well as they might. She was not in a position to teach them regularly;
she had no one to help her, and she was obliged to do all the work
herself, not only of the teaching, but of the business, the house, the
servants, the housekeeping and cooking, the programme weekly for her
sociable evenings, the efforts to try to obtain an audience—that she kept
twenty-six persons on her own allowance of £1,000 a year, that it was
a very hard job to make both ends meet, and that these numerous
occupations took her away very reluctantly from attending to the children
as much as she ought. She was only assisted by an occasional donation,
and had not one single subscription she could depend on.
Without reflecting on the juvenile performers, one thing pleased the
audience more than any one item in the programme, namely, Mrs.
Weldon’s own beautiful singing of a pretty unaffected composition by
her pupil Charles Rawlings, Gentle Lillie, the three brothers joining
with her in the refrain.
Mr. Hudson Tuttle’s account, quoted in the last number of this
journal from the Banner of Light, is a very important one philo¬
sophically, if fully authenticated, but the writer omitted the date and
place of the death-bed scene, and the source whence he obtained his in¬
formation as to the circumstance preceding the death of the victim.
Indeed, Mr, Tuttle omitted his own address, consequently those non-
Spiritualists unacquainted with his name who read the narrative, had no
evidence before them as to its authenticity. The facts are well worth
the trouble of attesting by a variety of documentary evidence.
April 20, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
187
THE LAWRENCE CASE.
In another column will he found a report of the conclusion of the
Lawrence case, in which it will he noticed that the j udges behaved
with unseemly levity in dealing with a serious subject. Those who
understand the subject are aware that it is quite possible that the
siance in relation to which Mr. Lawrence was accused, might not
have been imposture; still, in consequence of popular prejudice and
ignorance he has not had the benefit of any doubt, and it is more
likely than not that the prison doors have closed upon an innocent-
man. Those who read the book on spiritual phenomena written by
Mr. William Crookes, E.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, will see that it is possible that there was no difference
between the materialisations observed in the presence of Mr. Lawrence
and those which Mr. Crookes and scores of others have scientifically
verified as genuine phenomena. The effect of the decisions in the
Lawrence case will be to bring home the knowledge to many
thousands of Her Majesty’s subjects, that it is quite possible for
ignorance and a priori ideas to condemn an innocent man in British
law courts. Directly the judges pronounced the decision Mr. Massey
rose from his seat among the barristers, and shook hands with Mr.
Lawrence before the whole court. All we can do in these matters
is to record in these pages the names of the judges, men of science,
and other persons ignorant of the nature of psychological phenomena,
who nevertheless pronounce decisions thereon. In the future, to the
honour of themselves and their families, they will occupy the same
place in history as those who condemned Galileo. They act in good
faith, but they are ignorant. The present Conservative Government
has spent great sums of the money of British taxpayers in the pro¬
secution of mediums, the only result being the awakening of great
sympathy for the mediums, and the national disgrace of the fettering
of scientific investigation. What can be done to remove the ignorance
of psychology of those who administer the law ? A few weeks ago
Mr. Eglinton, the medium, expressed the wish that Mr. Flowers,
the magistrate, would sew him up to the neck in a sack, and in
the presence of responsible witnesses, test the phenomena which take
place in his presence. Mr. Flowers refused. In our opinion the
Spiritualists’ Defence Committee should still further fix the historical
responsibility of the imprisonment of Mr. Lawrence upon the Govern¬
ment by applying for his release, and in short and sharp words
pointing out that there is no evidence of any difference whatever
between what took place in the presence of Mr. Lawrence, as testified
by ignorant people, and the phenomena certified to be genuine by those
who understand the subject, including Messrs. Crookes and Yarley,
Fellows of the Royal Society.
An excellent likeness of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory in oil has just been
executed by Mr. Peele, R.A.
A series of trance addresses by Mr. E. W. Wallis will commence at
three o’clock next Saturday afternoon (to-morrow), at 38, Great
Russell-street, London.
Great improvements have been made in the rooms of the National
Association of Spiritualists, but the workmen are not yet out of the
premises, which are consequently in a state of confusion. It is expected
that by next Monday the Library and Reading Room will be ready for
use.
E. W. Wallis and East End Spiritualism.—The fund in aid of the
East End Spiritualist Institute now stands as follows:—National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists, £2 2s.; Mr. A. Calder, £2; Mr. Martin R.
Smith, £1 Is.; Mr. W. C. Pickersgill, £1 Is.; Mrs. Lowe, £1; Mr.
Peterson, £1.—E. Kislinobury, Secretary.
On Thursday evening next, the 26th inst., the Rev. F. R. Young,
hon. member of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism,
will read a paper on “ The Positive Value of Spirit Communion,” at
the Association’s rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, the chair to be
taken at eight o’clock.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—The ordinary monthly session of the
Council of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism was
held at 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, on Thursday evening last week,
the 12th inst., Mrs. Amelia Corner in the chair. The other members
present were Mr. T. Blyton, Mr. J. Rouse, Mr. J. Tozeland, Mr. R. P.
Tredwen, and Mrs. M. T. Wood. Letters of general interest were
read from Mr. Francis R. Munton, Hon. Secretary to the Psycholo¬
gical Society of Great Britain, Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, Mr. T. E.
Partridge, Mr. Wm.1 Towns, Mr. M. F. Parkes, Mr. W. J. Colville, and
Dr. W. Gill. A presentation from Mr. J. J. Morse was laid upon the
table, and accepted with a cordial vote of thanks. The Hon. Trea¬
surer submitted the cash accounts, which were passed, and reported
binding of seven volumes of The Spiritualist newspaper for the
library, which was approved. M. J. Mclsack and Mr. Thos. Grant
were elected life members, and Mr. R. A. March an ordinary member.
A letter of resignation of membership from Mr. G. N. Strawbridge
was read, and accepted with regret. The Committee on protective
measures against attacks at law, recommended the adoption of the
suggestions contained in the letter of “ A Lawyer,” published in The
Spiritualist of 2nd ultimo. Letters were read upon the subject from
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I.,the President, Mr. C.C. Massey, and Miss
Kislingbury, Secretary of the British National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. After some discussion the recommendation of the Committee
was, subject to slight amendment, unanimously adopted. An applica¬
tion from Mr. J. J. Morse for a lecture engagement was submitted,
and declined. An offer by Mr. James Burns to deliver a lecture, on
the last Thursday evening in May next, was accepted. A proposal by
Mr. John Rouse to give some “ Original Readings in Rhyme on Popular
Subjects,” obtained through his own mediumship, was accepted for
Thursday evening, the 3rd May next. The Council then adjourned,
SOIREE MUSICALE—NEXT WEDNESDAY.
The Reading-room and Library of the National Association of
Spiritualists at 38, Great Russell-street, London, will be re-opened
with a Grand Musical Entertainment on Wednesday evening next,
after the recent improvements and alterations. The programme is
an attractive one, and tickets are being well taken up. Several friends
who are not able to attend, but who are desirous of aiding the object in
view, viz., the fund for alteration expenses, have sent contributions as
follows :—Mr. C. Blackburn, £5 ; Mr. A. Calder, £l ; Mr. Martin R.
Smith, £2 2s.; Mrs. Tebb, £1 10s.; Mr. R. Campbell, £1 Is. Friends
would also greatly aid the committee by sending flowers for the plat¬
form not later than Wednesday morning.
The following is the programme :—
PART i.
Overture, u Die Zauberflote ” (Mozart)   The Misses Withall.
Song, “The Lost Chord” (Sullivan)   Madame Schneegans.
Song, “ Abschied ” (Esser)     Mr. AndxA.
Duo Concertante, Piano and Violin, “Guillaume Tell” (Osborne and
De Beriot), Miss Withall and Mr. Kitcat.
Song, “ Love’s Request ” (Reichardt)   Mr. E. A. Tietkens.
Reading, Trial Scene from “ Merchant of Venice ” Madame Ronniger.
Song, “ Jessie’s Dream ” (Blockley)  Miss SchaUehn,
Song, “ Nancy Lee ” (Adams)  Mr.' Andre.
Interval of Ten Minutes.
PART II.
Violin Solo     
Recitation, “ Chiquita ” (Bret Harte
Song, “ My Mother’s Song ” (Ganz)
Song, “ Salve dinora ”, (Gounod)
Old Song, “Lullaby” (17thCentury
Reading  ... ...  
Song, “I may, or may not” (Stephen Glover)
It is desired that tickets be as much as
advance.
. Mr. Kitcat.
. Mr. Dietz.
. Mrs. Limpus.
. Mr. E. A, Tietkins.
. Madame Schneegans.
. Mr. Dietz.
Miss Schallehn.
possible applied for in
The Leigh Spiritualist Association acknowledge with thanks the
receipt of a package of works on Spiritualism, the substance of which
has been given at various times through the mediumship of Miss F. J.
Theobald.—Geo. F. Turner, Hon. Sec.
The journal of the Belgian Federation of Spiritualists, of April 15th,
states that the Zouave Jacob, healing medium, “denies Christ and
acknowledges the Indian Krishna ”; moreover, he displays the name of
the latter upon enormous placards in his dispensary. He operates upon
patients without charge, and succeeds in effecting occasional cures.
The last number of the Harbinger of Light (Melbourne) states that
Mr. J. M. Peebles was expected in Sydney from California at the
beginning of March. In Melbourne a committee has been formed to
receive him; Mr. W. H. Terry, of 84, Russell-street, Melbourne, is
its secretary. If Mr. Peebles would see for himself some of the
psychological phenomena prevalent among Australian and African
savages, his records would be of special interest.
Complaints reach us from the United States of short supplies of copies
of The Spiritualist being kept by some of the agents there, and the
demand for this journal has increased so rapidly that since December
last the circulation has quadrupled itself in that country. Those friends
in the United States who require specimen copies should apply to Mr.
Miles Channing, Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and Sixth
Avenue, New York, who for a few weeks will have a larger supply on
hand than required for regular subscribers.
The Model Rules oe the Dalston Association.—The neatly-
printed brochure of the “ Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism,” the thirteenth issue of which we have received, states the
objects and arrangements of the Association, and informs us how to
conduct stances in our own homes. It also contains a catalogue of
books on psychic force and cognate subjects which form the Association’s
library. Those who are interested in phenomenal investigations should
write to the secretary, Mr. T. Blyton, at the rooms, 74, Navarino-road.
—Borough of Hackney Standard.
Spiritualism in Marylebone.—On Tuesday evening last, Miss
Kislingbury read a paper before the Marylebone Society of Inquirers
into Spiritualism, on “ Some of the Moral and Religious Aspects of
Spiritualism.” At the request of Mrs. Hallock, President of the Society,
Mrs. Lowe occupied the chair. After the lecture, which is printed
upon another page, there was an animated discussion. Mr. Whitley said
that he thought it of no use to try to save the churches—that they had
stood in the way of progress instead of aiding it.—Mr. Charles Hunt
was of opinion that the clergy were more liberal than laymen. He had
worked in the temperance movement, and had always been well received,
although he was a Spiritualist.—Mrs. Parker said that she had worked
hard in some of the movements for social reform, but as soon as it was
known that she was a Spiritualist, she was no longer wanted.—Mr.
Chas. White agreed with this view.—Mrs. Hallock said she had found it
as difficult to get reform into Spiritualists as to get Spiritualists into
reform movements, but she intended to work on at it, and carry her
religious opinions with her wherever she went.—Mrs. Lowe said that
she had always been well received among social reformers, and was on
several of their committees; but though she had suffered incarceration
rather than deny Spiritualism, at the same time she did not think it
either wise or necessary to be always bringing it forward.—Votes of
thanks to Miss Kislingbury and Mrs. Lowe were moved by Mr. Whitley,
seconded by Mr. Hooker, and carried unanimously.
188 THE SPIRITUALIST. Apeil 20, 1877.
A SEANCE WITH MR. WILLIAMS. !
BY ST. GEORGE W. STOCK, M.A. j (
Mr. Williams, I find, has had losses in the way of j(
attendance since the wet blanket of the Slade prosecution jj
has been thrown over Spiritualism, but on the other hand he jl
seems certainly to have gained in power. The accounts I |]
have received of his recent sittings seem to justify this state- m
ment. When I attended last Saturday evening, Mr. Herne |]
and Mr. Eglinton were present as well; so that we had a l|j
three-medium power at work, and the results were propor- ||
tional. As soon as the lights were out a regular witches’ jjj
frolic was set up in the room; the musical instruments ||
commenced an airy flight, sounding as they went; lights jj'
floated and fell in abundance; there were voices here and if
voices there ; there was a general racket among the furni- ]|
ture; there were hands patting us, one of which pulled j j
mine a good way up in the air; and there seemed to he people j !
walking about the room; yet that the mediums were in their Ijj
places was testified, as far as it could be in the dark, to those j j
not actually holding them, by their joining freely in con- i
versation all the time. The voices were unusually lively and j I
demonstrative. There were four of them in all—those of j j
John King and Peter, of or belonging to Williams ; that of jjj
Joey, of or belonging to Eglin ton; and a voice which I had j j
not heard before, said to come from “The Irresistible;” I j
this last appertained to, Williams. I use this way of speaking j j
designedly ; for I am satisfied that all the “ spirit-voices” I j |
have heard from public mediums have been simply the j j
medium’s own voide disguised. They fall into three classes, j j
the growl, the squeak, and the whisper. How far they are jjj
connected with the medium’s will and consciousness is a j j
point on which only mediums themselves can throw light, j j
They seem, if anything, to gain in power when the medium j j
is in .the unconscious state of trance. I was struck with the j j
instantaneous rapidity of movement displayed by these i j
voices; they were here and there and everywhere, now j j
chafi&ng and talking with us, and now engaged in lively j j
dialogue among themselves. At one time I heard Joey and jjj
Peter whispering to one another up at the ceiling. They jj
seemed to be concocting some unusual feat. When we j j
lighted up, the following was the position of affairs. A i j
large arm-chair was placed on the table, in which Williams, j j j
who had been floated away from the lady who had till then >
held his hand was found reposing deep in the trance, j j
Beside the arm-chair was a heavy harmonium. I was j j
astonished at the amount of power that must have been j j
exerted to bring this over our heads in the dark, and deposit j j
it noiselessly on the table. With great difficulty it was j
lifted down by three persons, and then not without damage I J
as an ominous sound of a crack somewhere testified.
After this Williams went into the cabinet. The power was j j
so strong that the cabinet was violently shaken before he j
got into it at all. Peter afterwards squeaked out to us that j j
it was he who had done that. He said that was his house j j
and he was often there. John King came out with his j j
lamp, and showed himself to us. Much to my delight, he j i
then said that he was going to float over the table, and that j j
meanwhile I might go into the cabinet and satisfy myself j j
that Williams was really there. This I did. I felt Williams, j j
and nearly woke him out of his trance by so doing, for j j
which Peter afterwards remonstrated with me. Then, as I j j
stood intercepting the narrow entrance to the cabinet, John j j
King floated towards me from the outside and inquired if I j j
was satisfied. Immediately after this he spoke with me j j
inside, the voice seeming to come from a level with my face j j
while the medium lay at my feet. John King appeared j j
very much pleased at the success of his exertions, and at the j)j
same time apologised for not having been able to present jjj
his features more distinctly. But I saw well enough to j j
convince me that it really was the face I had so often seen jj
and believed, for want of proof to the contrary, to be j j
Williams’s own. I can now testify, in Mr. Williams’s case, jj
to the distinctness from the medium of a speaking appari- jjj
tion. It remains that I should feel both forms simul- j j
taneously under unexceptionable circumstances before I can jj
declare myself to have had full proof of the stupendous j j
fact of materialisation. It seems to me preposterous to ask jjj
belief in such a miracle except on evidence which there is no jjj
gainsaying. By “ materialisation ” I mean the presentation
j to the senses both of sight and touch of a being of sub-
j stantial flesh and blood distinct from any of the
human beings in the room. I am amply satisfied that the
hands I have felt in the dark are not the natural hands of
the medium, or of any of the sitters ; and therefore my hesi¬
tation may seem logically inconsistent. But it is my
principle in these matters never to be content with inference ;
and I conceive there is a broad difference between only
feeling a hand in the dark, and both seeing and feeling a
face or figure. Never before, perhaps, did I receive so strong
an impression of the individuality of “ the spirits.” I felt
almost that John King was a real person, and a person,
moreover, whom I liked. Before he retired he made me
confess that I had not been “ quite right ” in my conduct on
a certain occasion with regard to Herne, a matter of which
I shall speak again. And yet, when all is said and done, a
suspicion will recur to me that the personality of spirits is
fictitious. What if the facts of the case should be justified
by granting a power resident in certain persons called
mediums, of projecting their own personality? It is well
known to investigators that the hands which touch us at
seances come from the body of the medium; they are
generally duplicates of those of the medium, and, as often
as not, have coat-sleeves attached to them. Hence so many
imaginary exposures, when a light is suddenly struck, and
these hands and arms are perceived beating a hasty retreat
in the direction of the medium. But granting, as we must
grant, the curious fact that there are certain persons from
whose bodies hands and arms emanate, however much
their natural arms may be held, how does it help us to drag
in the spirits of the departed ? There is no necessary con¬
nection, that I can discern, between an arm more or less, and
the immortality of the soul. But if this be so, what becomes
of the evidence from the appearance of the full form, the
proof palpable of immortality ? This, however, is no fit
occasion to discuss so deep a question. After the seance I
have been describing was over, Mr. Herne, in conversing with
me, let fall some valuable information. He said that when
sitters at a distance were touched, he felt as if he were
touching them, though his arms might be held at the
time, and that he could even tell sitters beforehand where
and how they would be touched. It is just this kind
of information, which only mediums can give us, that
throws most light on the problems of Spiritualism. I was
much struck with another remark of Mr. Herne’s, that the
many-armed idols which he saw in the Museum seemed to
him a proof that mediumship was known to the Ancients.
The true explanation, however, I take to be that the mul¬
tiplication of limbs was understood by the Hindoos as a
symbol of power. The same thing was intended by the
Greeks in the fable of the hundred-handed Briareus. Be¬
fore concluding, I will add one word more on the question
of materialisation, though the time and space at my disposal
permit only of my touching the surface of the subject. A
good deal has been made of the appearance of the wife of
Mr. Livermore, the banker in New York. A very similar
case occurred among ourselves in the appearance, some time
ago, of Mr. Ronald’s brother. I was a witness myself of
this solid spectre, and was assured by Mr. Ronald, who
seemed a sane and sensible man, that it was the facsimile
of his own deceased brother. Certainly no two forms could
be more unlike those of Mr. Bastian, the concealed medium
—a small, thin, sallow-faced man, with a long, drooping
black moustache—and this tall, broad-featured man, with a
bushy beard, but clear of hair on the upper lip. Why, then,
persist in disbelieving when one rises from the dead ? Be¬
cause, though the form resembled the deceased man, the
voice was, by Mr. Ronald’s own confession, not his brother’s
voice; and I recognised in it the voice of the controlling
spirit, George Fox, which again I knew to have issued from
the lips of Bastian, and to be Bastian’s voice disguised. It
seems to me that, under the peculiar conditions of the spirit-
circle, thought, even though latent, assumes objectivity.
The forms which appear at seances are in some mysterious
way emanations from the body of the medium, normally,
indeed, resembling him, but very pliable, and capable of
being moulded by the thoughts and affections of the sitters.
The intelligence possessed by them is, so far as I have been
able to judge, coincident, as a rule, with that of the medium,
Apeil 20, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
180
though in some few cases we must grant clairvoyant power. jj|
This is certainly a very miraculous state of things. But I ij
have been reluctantly forced to the conclusion that the evi- j\j ^
dence offered for the survival of the dead is a deception from m
beginning to end. I am speaking now of the evidence from |)j
the physical phenomena. Perhaps philosophical believers ]ffij
base their conviction on wholly different grounds. m
Pembroke College, Oxford. i) I
P^trs. 7.v Iji
THE SHADOW OF DEATH. | 1 j '
A shadow—only a shadow, and yet we all start back, and shrink, i(I ;
Shuddering, fearing, dreading, scarcely daring to think. Bf|
The shadow is always o’er hanging, clouding our sunniest day, jVj ,
Haunting our steps in the twilight, or far in the landscape away. |) i
Do we shrink at the tall graceful shadow of a grand majestic tree,
Reflected on grassy meadow so softly and beautifully ? j j j
Do we shudder to look at the cloudlet reflected in sunlight stream ? .) [
Do we turn from the leafy branches that wave on the moonlight sheen ? j) [
Do we fly from the flickering firelight dancing upon the door ? i (I
Does the child start back from the shadow it chases along the floor? i
Then fear not the Shadow of Shadows, beyond and above all is bright, j) j
’Tis only a shadow cast o’er you to shield your weak eyes from the light— l ) i
Only a shadow to darken the entrance to regions too fair | < I
For even the spirit to gaze on when first it arises there. ■ j< i
The strange and mysterious power called “ Valley of 'Shadow of Death;” !) I
Is darkest to those who stand watching, listening to mortals’ last breath, |) j
For the presence of One who is brightness and glory itself is-around,
And the Lamp and the Light to the pathway shines over the saci-ed ground; HI
Hallowed by tread of the pilgrims who have passed that way before, i | j
Trod once by the Holiest footsteps that we might have fear no more.
And a handclasp never so loving gives welcome to bright summerland, ) i
And voices never so sweet-toned give greeting from angel-robed hand; |( |
Long ages ago this transit all painless, unshadowed has been, iji
Fox- instead of a Prison Gateway an Archway of Triumph was seen, . | j j
Say, will the coming future bring the good tiine once again, i) i
When the gateway of Death shall foreshadow no anguish and tenor and pain ? iji
On ALFORD. | j 1
. -fGss&ssz&ssizsiJszzzz&zzsir i) i
(Eorresponxience.
[Oreat f reedom is Given lo correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed j) i
to those of this journal andits readers.^ Unsolicited communications cannot he returned; ij j
copies should be kept by the writers.] i j i
“ WHERE IS THE SPIRIT WORLD ? ”
Sir,—In a former course of lectures on Intellectual Philosophy, j) |
delivered in the Theatre of Anthropology, Clayton-square, I have jj |
sought to prove that matter has no existence as objective substance, j (j
t.e., entirely independent of mind or spirit. Cerebral organisation is a jj j
form of molecular nervous combination only, for purposes of the planet j) j
Earth, and logically, philosophically, and demonstratively due to a jj j
priori mental force, whether technically called Deity, nature, or the jj 1
pantheistic operation of spiritual power. I hold that particles of any j j
given mass, in form of mountain or molecule, plant, animal or man, j j
owe their present existence to higher laws of attraction, repulsion, jj j
cohesion, gravitation, or what not, and that, in point of fact, if you ij j
take away extension in any sense, matter ceases to exist in a commen- j j i
surate ratio, from the standpoint of human observation or scientific j j j
experience. Of course, there is no annihilation, but, at the same time, j j j
change in pre-existing equilibrium may be adequately effected by jj j
superior force, alike m the aggregation of worlds and the smallest j) j
chemico-physical bodies. Brain itself (as I have shown at the British jj j
Association for the Advancement of Science, when a member of the jj j
General Committee) has no sine qud non reference to, or connection ) j
with distinctive mental faculties. And why not ? Animals eat j j
without stomachs, move without muscles, feel without nerves, breathe jj j
without lungs, and are nourished without blood, in a coil of mortality, j) j
If Spiritualism has proved nothing else, its demonstration of con- U i
tinuity of life without protoplasm, and of mind without matter, clearly j j j
shows that the soul of man is really constructed for an immortal j j j
cultus of individual consciousness, in a spiritual body, having higher j j
and lower conditions, in coming spheres of existence.
“ Yii'tuo still leads to heaven, and vice to hell.” i j j
William Hitchman, M.R.C.S.,
Fellow of the Royal Physical Society of Edinburgh. jj j
Liverpool, April 12th, 1877.
MR. HERNE’S MEDIUMSHIF.—PHILOSOPHICAL SPECULATIONS IN RELATION TO j j j
SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA. j j I
Sir,—As I am not a powerful orator, and as my speech at Doughty j) j
Hall last Tuesday evening suffered under some difficulties, will you jjj
allow me to give a wider publicity through the medium of your jjj
columns to the reparation which it was then my object to make to Mr. j) j
Herne 1 I will repeat the sense, and, as far as I can, the precise words jj j
of what I uttered, which I am the better able to do, as, owing to my jj j
shortness of memory, I was armed with notes at the time:— i) j
“ Ladies and Gentlemen,—I am afraid I cannot claim to appear be- jj j
fore you as an enthusiastic advocate of what the last speaker has so often j j j
alluded to as ‘ the cause’ ; nevertheless, I hope that, as a truthseeker, j) j
I shall not be the worse received. To me there is but one cause—the cause j j j
of man, or as others call it, the cause of God. In so far as Spiritualism jjj
tends to the furtherance of that cause—and I believe its beneficial jjj
effects to be great and undeniable— it has my most hearty sympathy, j j j
Therefore I am never ashamed to be called a Spiritualist. Outsiders i :
call me so, and I have always borne my full share of whatever oppro¬
brium may attach to the name. On the other hand, I am so unfortunate
as not to enjoy the compensation of a consoling creed. After some six
years’ investigation of Spiritualism, I am bound to confess that I have
failed to extract from it the slightest proof of a future life. On the
contrary, I have seen much to raise in me the suspicion that, so far as
this is concerned, Spiritualism may perhaps be the gigantic delusion
that its adversaries are so fond of proclaiming it. I would not be
misunderstood on this point. No one believes more firmly than I in
the reality of the phenomena of Spiritualism, but they have failed
hitherto to lead me beyond themselves. Indeed, so firmly am I con¬
vinced that they are not due to mere human imposture, that I have been
tempted of late into the rather uncomfortable idea that Nature is mad.
Yes, that our own old mother Nature, who has hitherto been so sober
and regular in her habits, has of late gone clean off her head. Yet,
though Spiritualism has done so little for me in the way of establishing
any positive proof of a future life, it has at least done this much, that it has
taken away all weight from the arguments against that notion ; for it
has taught me that mind, far from being a mere outcome of matter,
possesses a power over it that may truly be described as next door to
omnipotence. You, the initiated, would therefore doubtless deny me
the name of Spiritualist, for I apprehend that the true Spiritualist is
one who believes in the possibility of communion with the departed,
and who, believing in its possibility, thinks it right also to enjoy it.
Now, if I thought it possible to hold communication with my dead
relations, I would certainly think it right and natural to do so. ’ I see
nothing discreditable in dying, that I should cut my friend on account
of it; only I doubt whether the certainty of a future life has indeed
been made out. We seem to me like men shouting into a tomb and
receiving back the echo of their own voices. Perhaps I may yet see
reason to alter my views. Meanwhile, I hail with joy the conception
of life which Spiritualism is doing so much to popularise. That con¬
ception of life I hold to be the outcome of the highest thought of the
age. Spiritualism has not brought but borrowed it, but here, in my
judgment, is the great value of Spiritualism. Those thoughts which
the few hitherto have whispered with bated breath are now being
boldly grasped and proclaimed by the many. It would have taken a
long time for these ideas to filter down in the natui’al course of things.
Their rapid spread has become possible only by the semi-divine
sanction of Spiritualism.
“ But it is not to define my own position with regard to Spiritualism,
nor yet to obtrude my doubts upon this meeting (for which I must apolo¬
gise) that I have ventured to come forward this evening; but because I
have something definite to say, and an injury, if possible, to repair;
Some of you, may, perhaps, remember how one time—a good time ago,
now—one of the spectators, irritated at what he considered the over-
belief of the rest, turned on the gas suddenly at one of Mr: Herne’s
siances: It was I who perpetrated that deed. I still believe that the
account I gave in the Medium of the transaction is strictly and literally
true. But I see now very clearly, as indeed I saw then on reflection,
that the incident proved nothing, except what we all know very well,
that a medium is often made use of by some power unconsciously to
himself.* If anyone after studying Spiritualism is ignorant of this fact,
I must say that he has made very bad use of his time and opportunities
of observation. But though there was nothing in the incident itself
tending to the prejudice of Mr. Herne in the view of any reflecting person,
I am sorry to learn from Mr. Herne himself that the impression pro¬
duced did affect him unfavourably. Now I am not vain enough to think
that any words of mine would carry much weight with him, but in so far
as I displayed any animus against Mr. Herne, I am truly and sincerely
sorry for it, and I regret that he is not present to-night himself to hear
me say so. Other causes I find have of late tended to thrust out Mr;
Herne from the prominent part which he once played in the movement.
About those causes I know nothing, and can say nothing. But this
much I can say—that if no one has any juster cause to suspect Mr.
Herne’s honesty as a medium than I had, then Mr. Herne is a much
injured man. If physical mediumship is valuable at all, then Mr.
Herne’s mediumship is valuable, for he is a genuine and powerful
physical medium, and I think it is a pity that he should not be made
more use of. Physical mediums have enough to suffer already in being
exposed to what I cannot help regarding as unwholesome influences
without our adding to their troubles. We, who gratify our curiosity at
their expense, ought certainly to show them every tenderness and
consideration.
In conclusion, let me say that I have not come forward to-night in
order to emphasise my own view of the transaction referred to. Per¬
sonally, I am bound to accept the evidence of my own senses in prefer¬
ence to that of other people, however much I may respect them. I have
simply availed myself of this opportunity, when we are all met together
in peace and goodwill, to repair, as far as lies in my power, any injury
I may have caused to Mr. Heme’s reputation.”
I trust, Sir, that the apparent egoism of reporting one’s own utter¬
ances will be lost sight of in consideration of the object of the speech.
St. George Stock, M.A., Pembroke College, Oxford.
WHAT “AN OLD MAN FROM THE COUNTRY THINKS.”
Sir,—Referring to my letter in The Spiritualist of March 2nd, in
which I recommended the trial of enclosing mediums, who sit for forms, in
a cage made entirely of iron, at test seances, a friend reminds me that,
in fact, a cage had been tried by Mrs. Berry, as detailed in the Spiritual
Magazine of March, 1875, and although it was duly fastened, and the
key in Mrs. Berry’s pocket, and after the lock had been well scrutinised
by some of the party present, yet the two mediums who were enclosed in
* This refers merely to my having seen Mr. Herne (still entranced) lean forward
in his chair, and draw back the curtain, when a cry was raised that “ the spirits ’’ were
bringing out the medium.
iDa
TH12 S^IBITUALIST.
April 20, 1877.
the cage were immediately thrown out at Mrs. Berry’s feet, while she f |
was sitting in the circle six feet from the cage. 11
The inefficacy of rope-tying or thread-sewing has been so frequently |(
exposed in the Spiritual journals that, except for the private amusement I)
of Spiritualists, just to see how far the farce can be carried, such further i)
attempts seem perfectly useless as tests for the public ; indeed, as far i \
back as from the first stances of the Davenports the fruitlessness of such j)
tests was fully realised. In truth, the power of spirits to emancipate 11
mediums from bondage seems incalculable ; and for what ? Just to | (
satisfy, perhaps, the curiosity of the sitters, or to please themselves, j)
But, when any particular object might be obtained by emancipation; K
when by such an act the spirits would set the whole world in wonder- j)
ment; when the event would be telegraphed to every corner of civilised j)
life; when, if the same forces so frequently used for trivial purposes |(
were but once, only once, used for a really useful or really important | j
purpose, the efiect would be simply stupendous; when, by a facile and |)
daily process, results pregnant with the most momentous consequences j j
would inevitably accrue to the advancement of spiritual belief and to I)
; the utter confusion of the materialist and the unbeliever, then the spirits I} \
hold their hands. When the poet wrote the touching paradox— ! (|
Stone walls do not a prison make, ' |)|
Nor iron bars a cage— ] (!
he little dreamed how literally his words would one day be fulfilled. If !|{
it be added concerning mediums who are imprisoned because of their ju
spiritual gifts, j (j
Minds innocent and quiet take this for an heritage, m
there is no thanks to the spirits if they do so. I j j
If we were to hear now of a medium being released from prison by a ! j j
spirit or spirits, we should not learn such a fact for the first time, or j 11
even for the second time; for it once happened, it is alleged, when the !) i
Davenports were imprisoned. Then, why may this not happen again ? J |
For that which has happened once may always recur. I would ask any jjj
clergyman if it be not so, and whether he does not know of its having j) j
happened once ? It has been alleged, also, and I believe it—for this, j j j
too, is but a recurrence of a well-known event—that a medium, now in 1)1
prison, was some years back transported through the air, by spirits, a m
distance of some forty miles, to suit the spirits’ purpose, when they had |) |
few or no witnesses of so great an event, although there were circum- | j j
stances attending this excursion of the medium that rendered it impos- i \ j
sible he could have arrived at his destination in any other way in so H j
short a time. This occurred, as it appears, quite unconnectedly with |)!
any special object of importance to the medium or others, and yet now, | j |
when such a transportation from his prison would not but be recognised | j |
throughout Europe, these same controls are contented to show their J
. powers, not by the transportation of their medium as before, but by the j j j
transportation of a broomstick I Ah! “To what vile uses have we fj
come at last!’’. That was a wonder indeed! I mean the broomstick, j j
Poor physical mediums! People, however, even talked of the broom- j j
stick; but if the spirits had carried away the medium from so public a j i
place as a prison, instead of the broomstick, as they carried him once j j
before privately, they would have confounded even justice, or uneven | I
justice, whichever it may be, and we should have had even Dr. Carpenter j ]
aghast at the doings of such ghosts, till he found out some new prepos- j |
session. The spirits cannot say they have not got their .conditions with j j j
mediums in prison. They have darkness without stint; low commons, 1I|
so favourable for the medial powers of the sensitive; isolation in all | ,i
conscience ; no conflicting feelings of lookers-on between the rounds of jj j
the warders; and, we hope, with the mediums’ “ minds innocent and j | i
quiet.” And now we know, from Mrs. Berry’s experience, that iron bars ! I
do not make a cage. All seems in favour of the unhappy medium, m
, except the will or the unwisdom of the controlling spirits. Why, since i j j
spirits are so fond of substituting the medium for themselves, can they i |
not reverse the matter for once in a way ? And, if carrying a medium j |
again in the air is now too arduous, why not substitute themselves for j j
the medium for the nonce, while the medium could be carried through j ] J
closed doors or ceilings, perhaps not for the first time ; for it is alleged j !
that that has been done, with other mediums, at any rate, many a time, j j
and I believe it. It is just this: whenever just and logical use of great | j
powers are required from so many of the spirits given to physical mani- | !
festations, then they are shirked. They will knock their mediums about, 11 j
mentally and bodily, passing them through doors and floors to show a || j
foolish trick; but when a grand result might be obtained by so doing, ! vi
and when the medium is in such a strait as nothing but a spirit could |) j
drag him out of, then they leave him to his philosophy and his fate. | j i
Gratitude should, they say, be blotted from the dictionaries of mortals; : j j
. why not from those of spirits ? I should rather have said, this is some- j i
times the case, for we know that mediums have not only been passed | j
through matter for good purposes, but that spirits are to be seen almost | |
daily, though not, perhaps, fully materialised; and that some have been i j
fully and frequently materialised we cannot doubt, or, at least, trans- i I
r formed. Doubles have been frequently seen simultaneously with the 111
medium, as Mr. Crookes has irrefragably demonstrated, and that such |) |
things can be, the materialised spirit shot through the head, not the j<j
medium, in America, has proved. n |
In order that this should occur more commonly—for the belief that I |
spirits can, under certain circumstances, occasionally become mate- j !
rialised is fraught with important concern for the thoughtful mind—it j I
is well, in the absence of sure tests, to try such as are least uncertain; | i
and in this respect the cage seems assuredly more hopeful than the | i
rope, or needle and thread, and would certainly present a more startling | j
puzzle to the sceptic if either a ghost should appear or even the medium i j
be thrown out of the cage. But iron cages are expensive and cumber- j j
some; I would, therefore, now suggest another plan, still in the cage I j 1
line, which would be cheaper, and perhaps even more successful, than ] | j
purchasing an iron cage all round. This plan would be to hire by the j i
month, or, say, for the London season, of one of the importers of wild Hi
beasts, a new ready-made cage, made of strong wood at bottom, top, and
three sides, with strong iron bars in front, well set into the wood, and
with a door at the back. A cage made extra strong for a bear, a hyena,
or a savage baboon, would be just the thing. The cage should be kept
as sent from the maker’s, and left to be handled by all comers, and, when
done with, given up, lm statu quo ante, to the animals, when the show¬
men could advertise the cage with the beast, and demonstrate the former
as the “ wery hidentical receptacle of wood and iron whence the ghosts
and mediums crept out, but where the hinfuriated hanimals hair kept
hin.” In the case of making use of such a test as this, curtains might
be so arranged that almost all the cage, except the barred front, would
be in the sight of the company, especially the door at the back. The
open bars would have the condition of darkness behind the curtains,
and would be free for the egress and the ingress of materialised spirits,
materialised doubles, or the unconscious, entranced, controlled, irre¬
sponsible mediums themselves, as the case might be.
I have not said one word to the disparagement of mediums. God
forbid that I should. I am something of a medium myself; then why
should I ? I may, consequently, suffer from the spirits for writing this ;
but it is as well, "or better, to suffer for telling the truth than for any
other cause. An Old Man brom the Country,
THE TAYLOR FAMILY MEMOIRS.
Sir,—The following lines may perhaps amuse your readers, following
on the allusions to the Taylor family in your last number.
It may be necessary to add, however, that Mr. Taylor is not a
Spiritualist.
Epigrams, from 11 Memoirs of the Taylor Family" by P. A > Taylor, M.P.
Printed for private circulation.
It blew an hard storm, and in utmost confusion,
The Saylors all hurry’d to get absolution ;
Which done, & the load of the sins they confesd
Transferd as they thought from themselves to the priest,
To lighten y® Ship & fulfil their devotion,
They tos’d y« Poor Parson souse into y® Ocean!
Albert Snow.
Brighton, April 14th, 1877.
THE SPIRITS OF ANIMALS.
Sir,—We hear so little about the spirits of animals. Does the spirit
of the beast go downward, and is the intelligent and affectionate dog no
longer cared for or wanted in the realm of departed human spirits ?
At all events, as it appears highly probable that the wonderful intelli¬
gences behind the’scenes have the power of manufacturing humanity’s
form, why should not a good and faithful dog, or any dog with real
animation, be produced at a cabinet opening ? It no doubt may be
replied that no animals exist or are required in the spirit world; but
many compositions occur, which evidently are the effects of materialised
imagination. Why not produce from time to time the semblance of
some animal, it being distinctly examined beforehand that no such
animal existed in the cabinet? I believe experiments of this kind
would help to elucidate how many of the materialisations of human
form are due to manufacture or to individual representation. At all
events, it would be a little change. S. Chinnery.
2, Rue de Rocroy, Paris, April 16th, 1877.
QUEEN’S BENCH, APRIL 14.
(Sittings in Banco, at Westminster, before the Lord Chief Justice and
Mr. Justice Mellor.)
LAWRENCE V. THE QUEEN.
Mr. Ignatius Williams appeared on behalf of the defendant, and said
that a writ of error to set aside the verdict and judgment on this indict¬
ment had issued on the ground that the verdict did not set forth any
offence in law. It charged that the defendant, on Oct. 5, 1876, unlaw¬
fully and knowingly pretended to one James Booth Hunter that he had
the power to converse with the spirits of deceased persons, although
such persons were not present in the place he then was, and to summons
them to his presence in a material form, and that a banjo, tambourine,
and other musical instruments would play music by means of the spirits
invoked by his power. The first point which he would take was that
there had been no allegation of a false existing fact.
Mr. Justice Mellor: It is not averred that he did summon the spirits,
but it was aUeged that he was able to do so. Is not that an existing
fact ?
The Lord Chief Justice: If you give a man who says he can summon
spirits from another world, £5, and he does not summon them and
knows he cannot, then it is false pretence.
Mr. Williams: But supposing he possessed the power, no person in
existence could say whether the spirits were there or not, for a spirit is
an unascertained thing.
■ The Lord Chief Justice: An unknown quantity. (Laughter.) This
man said, “ I will make' the spirits manifest in certain forms.” Your
main difficulty as regards the charge is, that no one can tell whether
a spirit is present or not.
Mr. Williams admitted that that was so, and submitted that there
was no evidence of the false pretence alleged, and he had at the trial
proposed to call a number of witnesses.
The Lord Chief Justice: Not spirits, I presume. (Laughter.)
Mr. Williams: No, my lord, but persons who had witnessed the per¬
formance ; but the judge stopped me.
The Lord Chief Justice: But the jury were of opinion that the mani¬
festations were all jugglery and tricks.
Mr. Williams: I do not think it possible that the opinion of any of
the jury could be taken on the subject.
April 20, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
191
The Lord Chief Justice: If you took the opinion of any man of
common sense on the question whether this playing on the banjo and
other instruments by the spirits of departed persons was due to
spiritualistic agency, he would not be such a fool as to say it was, and,
if so, what was there to prevent a jury from coming to the same con¬
clusion ?
Mr. Williams: The jury drew the inference from facts on which they
were incapable of coming to any conclusion or forming an opinion. It
was a mere speculation on their part.
The Lord. Chief Justice: I beg your pardon; they came to their con¬
clusion on a matter of fact.
Mr. Williams: I was prepared to prove that something which had
no relation to fraud or trickery appeared in the presence of this man.
The Lord Chief Justice: Then you should have proved it.
(Laughter.) All we have now to do is to say whether, on the face of
this indictment, there is an indictable offence. The defendant asserted
he had the power of invoking the spirits of deceased persons, and if the
jury were told that they believed—were foolish enough to believe—that
he was himself honestly of opinion that he possessed this power, and
that they found that he did, then he would not be guilty under the
statute. These manifestations could only be brought about by machina¬
tions or by spiritual agency, and if done by machinations nobody on the
earth would be so foolish as to say that he believed in his power to call
up spirits. The spirits did things so preposterously absurd that they
were said to be due to supernatural agency; but the jury have found,
as a fact, that this was not so, and that the defendant was guilty of a
false pretence.
Mr. Justice Mellor: The only way in which you could have shown
there was no false pretence was for you to get the defendant to summon
a spirit and a tambourine before the jury, and then you might have got
your client off. (Laughter.)
Mr. Williams: I offered to produce something.
Mr. Justice Mellor: What something ?
Mr. Williams : Something abnormal—a phenomenon.
The Lord Chief Justice: I thought that could only be done in a
darkened room, Mr. Williams. (Much laughter.)
Mr. Williams: Oh, no, my lord. I understand it can be done any¬
where. (Renewed laughter.)
The Lord Chief Justice: But did the defendant himself offer to do
this before the jury.
The Defendant (who was in court) said: I offered to do so before the
magistrate.
Mr. Justice Mellor: No doubt there are certain spirits which a man
can produce. (Laughter.)
Mr. Williams submitted that the charge was not an affirmation of a
known fact of anything capable of being ascertained.
The Lord Chief Justice, without calling on Mr. Cooper (who appeared
in support of the conviction), said that the jury had found that the
defendant was guilty of false pretences, and, this motion being in arrest
of judgment, the Court had nothing to do with the evidence of the
finding of the jury. They had simply to determine whether the offence
was within the meaning of the Act, and he had no doubt whatever on
that point. It would be most mischievous if practices of this kind—
carried on not for amusement, or for the purposes of scientific investi¬
gation, but for sordid purposes—were not to be held to come within
the terms of the Act directed to obtaining money by false pretences.
The conviction was a proper one, and the judgment of the Court
below must be affirmed.
Mr. Justice Mellor expressed his concurrence.
Mr. Cooper, on the part of the prosecution, applied for costs.
The Lord Chief Justice said the Court had no power to give costs.
They would certainly do so if they could.
The defendant was then removed in the custody of Mr. Frayling,
jun., the tipstaff of the court.—Daily Telegraph.
TRANCE UTTERANCE AT THE FUNERAL OF MR.
S. S. JONES.
At the funeral of the editor of The Religio-Philosophical Journal in
Chicago, Mrs, Cora Tappan Richmond delivered the following trance
address:—
Friends, after the fitting words that have been spoken, little remains
to be added; but we are privileged, like yourselves, to assemble here in
the presence of the Messenger of Life, called Death. That messenger
always has some message to the living. The one who has gone before
has received whatever Death had to say to him. To those who remain
the message remains to be spoken by your own souls. Whatever voice
this silent angel has to give must be spoken to you variously, according
to your comprehension of the meaning of death ; but we are perfectly
well aware that, like the seasons in their coming and going, like the
everlasting tides of the ocean, or like the tempest that tosses the waves
and slays the forests, our opinions on earth cannot alter the great
potency of the infinite laws. While death has in time past been
pictured as a fiend of terror, a dark and silent messenger, we believe
that death is the one great boon of life, next to birth—the greatest voice
that God gives to humanity—the next stage in existence into which,
whether willingly or otherwise, whether by the portals of slow disease
or by the sudden hand of calamity, every soul must ultimately enter—
the next grade of life wherein lie all of earth’s greatest, and all of earth’s
least, minds.
The message which is spoken to the spirit risen from yonder casket
is not known to you,—may not be known; for if there be secrets in life
hidden from any man, into which no rude mind may inquire, are there
not secrets beyond the grave, and does not God speak to each soul as
He will—to keep His own counsel ? It is not our business to tell what
God has said to that soul in the great other birth that has come; but
only to say that the belief of the departed was such that every hour of
life he waited as calmly for that messenger as you wait for the morning
dawn, and whether fitly prepared or unfitly, it is not your province nor
mine to decide.
We glide behind the outward life. Every man’s habitation of earth
is'^his castle; the bosom of his family is his sacred shrine. We look at
death now through the eyes of affection; we see the risen spirit now
glorified by the affections of those who loved him. We see him shaking
off the outward dross, the harshness of the external brain, and some¬
what of its criticism, and there, with new found blossomings, entering
almost as a child into a new region of existence, with new found hopes;
we see the mind unaltered, but still not tethered to the dust. We see
the spirit quickened, and the glad possibilities of every soul rises when
its messenger speaks, and the voice which it breathes to the living is—
“ If you build your habitation only for earth, if time is all you consider,
if each day and hour you rear up structures that are intended only for
earth, you build after one manner lofty edifices, splendid surroundings,
temples of glory, ambition and the praise of men; but if you saw the
life beyond, wherein these things cannot by any possibility enter—the
habitation must be left behind, the glory or praise or blame of man
must be left behind, all the splendour of intellect must remain here—
you would build them far otherwise; and knowing that there is a life
beyond, is the one incentive and guide to the manner of that building.”
It has been quite fittingly remarked that if a man is worthy to live,
he is also ready to die; but if he live only for the present hour, and
only in the external necessities of life, he is certainly not fitted to live,
and therefore cannot be ready for that loftier change. But whether
ready or not ready, the divine compensation of life is that unto every
grade of existence, whatever that grade may be, death is the next step
in the great chain of life. The criminal in the dungeon cell, the pauper
by the wayside, the inebriate in the gutter, the Magdalen in the street,
the saint in the cloister—all go one step by the hand of Death, and
that is a step in life.
With this belief the broad band of chaos which divides you from that
next step is removed. With this belief you enter as you would pass to
another habitation, with perhaps more spacious rooms and loftier possi¬
bilities. With this belief you go as you would go to another country,
prepared possibly by some knowledge of it, and possibly not prepared,
but always met at the gateway of that next step by some ministering
power, even as you are met here by kindly hands who receive you into
this world.
There are those born into outward life, by the customs and various
ambitions of men, who have no welcome here. There is no soul born
into spirit-life but what receives a welcome from some higher power;
and this is because there are no paupers there, save those who are
impoverished in their own souls. There are no almshouses there, save
for those who have no habitation of goodly deeds and kindly words, and
such the angels supply with raiment. But whatever meagreness there
may be to sustain, the light of the spirit still survives, and that is
welcomed by the hands that are accustomed to receive and minister.
This is the voice that the Angel of Death brings to-day: “That
every human being in passing through that change enters the next
stage of life; and that wherever and whenever this silent messenger
may come, it is one of the potent agencies of life, the means of intro¬
ducing the soul into that next higher state, where it is to be hoped that
every spirit will more fittingly profit by the advantages around him.”
And so through the tears and the eyes of affection we gaze on this
departed soul, remembering only those qualities that were endearing,
remembering only those traits that are enshrined in the memory of those
who love him best.
It is given to no man to judge his fellow man, for God alone reserves
the right to determine what a soul is, and he does that by the unerring
voice of conscience.
We tender to all of these wounded hearts our heartfelt sympathies
for the external grief which has come; but even as the tempest cleanses
the atmosphere, and leaves the pleasant sky above, parting the clouds
until the brightness glows more intently, so through this storm of out¬
ward affliction the power of the spirit is manifested more and more, and
the lesson will be garnered up in your hearts, and you will treasure it
until the day when you, too, shall pass to that higher birth.
No word can be spoken other than this: “ That all of love, all of
usefulness, and all of consciousness survives, and the great mutability
of time and change cannot destroy that which has the image of God,
and is immutable.”
Mr. D. Mackenzie Wallace, in his new work, Russia, universally
declared to be the fullest and most valuable account of the great
northern empire yet published, incidentally remarks (Vol. II. p. 452):—
“ I have long known Mr. Aksakof, and have never in any country met a
more honest and truthful man.”
The King of Dahomey.—The King’s palace is situated in the
suburb of Abomey, called Jegbeh, and a couple of miles southwest of
Abomey proper. In one of the courts a shed is erected about twenty-
four feet square, with a high gable roof surmounted by a silver image
of a tree, with an antelope eating the branches, and a bird building its
nest thereon. The tree denotes the king, and the bird and antelope
represent the Dahomian people, showing that the king provides
shelter and nourishment for his subjects. Within the shed is a mys¬
terious something carefully wrapped in cloth, wherein the spirit of the
present king is said to reside. This is carefully guarded by a priestess,
who, after the death of the king, is the recipient of his soul, and is
consulted by the fetichists. When the king has an important matter
in hand he consults this custos spiritus, and during the present custom
dozens of unfortunate men have been bound and gagged into this
spirit-house and there decapitated, their blood being sprinkled on the
cloth enveloping the spirit.—Religio-Philosophical Journal.
192
THE SPIRITUALIST
April 20, 1877,
RELIGION AND SCIENCE.
NO. II.—BY X BROAD CHUROH CLERGYMAN. , 0
The number of communications which have reached me j
vid the editor, or directly from those who penetrated the I
disguise of my pseudonym, must serve as my excuse for again !
breaking ground on the topic which is inadequately described j j
by the heading I adopted. I retain it, however, for the pur- |
pose of enabling my former correspondents to recognise me, I
and I must ask those to whom I have not been able to write
kindly to accept this article as an answer to their letters. |)
To pass from theory to practice (as most of my corre- j
spondents urge me) this is what I propose to do:— j
1. For my own use, and my small circle of friends and j
fellow-students, I have already organised a devotional seance'at j
my own house; but the locality is not favourable for many, |
nor are the dimensions of my seance-room sufficient to ac- j
commodate any but the most limited circle. j
2. I have to thank many correspondents who have offered I
the use of a room in most eligible and central localities. !
I have my doubts whether a room used for other purposes j
would be exactly suitable for this. I attribute a good deal j
to the genus loci in this matter; but I am weighing the j l
different proposals made, and if T cannot find a room which j
may be used only for this one purpose, I will avail myself j
of the kind offer made by one of my correspondents, to j
whom I have already written on the subject.
3. Besides this, I shall be very glad to extend the idea
which I am carrying out in my own domicile, by visiting
other suburbs where about seven sympathetic people can be
got together; where we can use the little, simple service I
have drawn up for the purpose, and then sit and quietly wait
for results. The method I propose is one of observation jj
rather than experiment. I think it is as wrong to prescribe | (
what shall occur, as to dogmatise on the causes of the j
phenomena when they have occurred. Realise the one |
cardinal fact of intercommunion (and our mere presence j
at such a seance proves that we do that), then surely the |
attitude we should assume is one of quietly waiting with j
reverent expectancy. j
I have been disappointed, one more year, in my wish to j
have a daily scarce of this kind between Easter and Whit- j
suntide. That may yet come, however, if the difficulty of j \
locale can be tided over. It need not, perhaps, be in one j
place only ; and the period of the year makes, of course, no j
actual difference: only, speaking from my standpoint as a j
clergyman of the Church of England, there seems a special j
fitness in holding such meetings at a time when the thoughts j
of those composing them of necessity run in the direction of j
such subjects. Perhaps by Whitsuntide—the one appro- j
priate season of all—I may yet be able to inaugurate the |
provisional scheme I have here sketched. |
The idea, in my mind, is very much that of the pro- j
phesyings of the old Puritans, though, of course, with a j
difference. These were strictly orthodox (alas the term!) I
meetings held in private houses, sometimes under the >
auspices of the clergy, sometimes not, but still with their !
sanction, and so arranged as not to interfere with church |
services. Why should not such an idea be revived and j
pressed into the service of Spiritualism in this age of re- 11
vivals ? '!
I know and thoroughly appreciate the objections to identi- |{
fying Spiritualism with any sect or religious denomination. R
I have a wholesome horror of organisations myself. I know j l
how possible it is to systematise the whole life and spirit out j)
of a rite. But still I claim to represent only one religious j (
body—a large one, it is true—but only one out of many. I j /
have no wish or intention to abandon my position as a jj
minister in that body. I believe I can do more good by J
remaining where I am and infusing new life into old forms j?
which had threatened to become effete. Let those of other jv
denominations do the same, not trying to make Spiritualism j(
sectarian, but rather to catholicise their sect by means of jj
Spiritualism. ij
There, as a Broad Churchman, I see the great beauty of jj
the Spiritualistic theory ; it is capable of assimilation by all ij
religions. It is the one fundamental doctrine that lies at jj
the root of all. Why trouble ourselves about the cut of a jj
vestment, the form of Church .government, or the Sacra- il
mental system, unless we are quite sure that man has a soul
to survive and an eternity to live through ? And what
else gives us the reasonable assurance (which is what I'
understand by faith) on these two cardinal points, except
the method of Spiritualism which is identical with the
method of Christ and the Early Church?
I am, of course, speaking, thus of the subject in its
higher phases. I am not saying that even the lower
phases may not be of service in recalling the attention of
people who have become frivolous because materialistic, and
of leading them on stepping-stones of their dead selves to
higher things. But this, I feel, is not my metier. What I
am delighted to feel is, that the subject is one which identifies
itself closely with the pursuits which I have solemnly made
my own for life. I believe no greater good could possibly be
effected than would ensue if we could convince people that they
may still remain loyal to their old creeds, still do their duty
in that state of life to which it had pleased God to call them,
while they found a new basis for such creed, a fresh and
potential stimulus for duty in this—I will not say revela¬
tion—so much as revival of truth.
And the very same process which recommends this subject
to the theologian, recommends it to the scientific man. The
one may sit down with his Bible, the other with his Mill's
Inductive Logici and find the results coincide. So, then,
perhaps the heading-of my article (as a parson, I ought to
say the text of my discourse) is not so much out of place
after all. Religion and science may yet be made convertible
terms by the employment of the inductive method of
Spiritualism.
Superstitions op the Russian Peasantry.—Of the superstitions of
the Russian peasantry Mr. Wallace* gives some striking instances.
The strangest is the following. One winter evening there appeared in
a peasant’s cottage a female figure draped as St. Barbara is commonly
represented. Introducing herself as the saint, she sat down and com¬
menced an edifying discourse. Before long the cottage was besieged by
an inquisitive but reverential throng, from which not a soul in that
village or the adjacent one stayed away. About midnight she rose,
announcing that she was going to fetch St. Nicholas, but that no one
must go away during her absence. So the villagers stayed where they
were, awaiting the return of St. Barbara and the arrival of St.
Nicholas. They waited till sunrise, and then many of them discovered
that the pretended saint had decamped, taking with her a number of
their horses. To the credulity of the Russian peasant there appears to
be no limit. About the time of the Duke of Edinburgh’s marriage,
for instance, a report spread abroad that a female conscription was
about to be made, and that a large number of young girls were to be
sent to England in a red ship. In what is styled their religious life,
also, the Russian peasants often evince a singular credulity. A robber
kills a peasant, “ but refrains from eating a piece of cooked meat which
he finds in his cart, because it happens to be a fast day.” An artisan
who is going to break into the rooms of a young Austrian Attache in
St. Petersburg, first “ enters a church and commends his undertaking
to the protection of the saints," after which he murders the young
Austrian in question. A robber finds it difficult to extract the jewels
from an Icon, “ and makes a vow that if a certain saint assists him he
will place a rouble’s worth of tapers before the saint’s image.” It is
Mr. Wallace’s opinion that the Russian Church has not done all it
might have done u to bring religion into closer association with
ordinary morality.”—The Times.
Exorcising Rats.—The number of charms and exorcisms which are
used by mole and rat-catchers in various parts of France (they are
not certainly unknown in England) is very great, and their character
is often curious. St. Gertrude of Nivelles is the patroness of rat¬
catchers ; and in the Ardennes, when rats become unusually trouble¬
some in a house, it is sufficient to write the following words on morsels
of paper, which must afterwards be well buttered :—“ Rats, vous qui
avez mange le cceur de Sainte Gertrude, je vous conjure en son nom de
vous en alter dans la plaine de RocroiT There are other forms ; but all
that is essential is to adjure the rats, or the great king of the rats, to
“remember” St. Gertrude. In the crypt of her church at Nivelles
there is a well, the water of which is sought for by the peasantry of all
the surrounding country, since, sprinkled in the house, or over the
fields, it will surely drive away all rats and mice. Earth from the
tomb of St. Ulric, at Augsbourg, has the same virtue. It is necessary
to name a place to which the rats who are to be expelled may retire,
and to take care that, if there be any running water in the way, there
is a bridge over which they may pass. They should be adjured, too, to
pass onward in long procession by threes and threes.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
G. F. F. (Leigh).—When a solitary book is presented to a library, the best
way to acknowledge receipt is by post to the donor. Of what interest is
the matter to the public ?
♦“Russia.” By D. Mackenzie Wallace, M.A., Member of the Imperial Russian Geo¬
graphical Society, Two yols. Cassell, Better, and Galpin, 1877,
April 20, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
pubhshea to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Ered. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this hook,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or honing that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sanrent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spini Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium Tight. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supematural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in Amenca, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there Is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book censists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 8s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M, King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS ; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes In the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid. '
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, MD., in three parts. 12s. .
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Cd.) 4s.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vois.j 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „ . ■ .
The Seer. „ III, „ .. ,
The Reformer. ,, IV. „ . ,
The Thinker. „ V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . . •
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . , .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
. 16 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 8
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 8 6
, 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 0
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 2 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 7 8
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 8
. 3 0
. 7 8
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little bodk,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . , . 15 0
Threading my Wav, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts 16 0
The Life.and Teachings of Confucius. Trans.ated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind,; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .20
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . . ,38
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10 8
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools . , , . 10
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM ..rENTON, by J. H.
Powell,
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman ot Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds -fays of
this little pamphlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometricaliy through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d. .
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April' 20’, 1877..
HE GREA.T aUESTIOH OF THE DAY.
How to ’Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to be left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless ? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PRINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
NQUESTS. —A STAETLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quietly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ?' The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
invaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it. Sold
by all Chemists. ,
END’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“In cases of bilious headaches, followed by Severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.’’—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of ENO'S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIO in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
must be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the .same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
On that account it is impossible to overstate its value, and if
its great value in keeping the bod$ in health were universally
known, no family would be without it.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT S ALU to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the ’Same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A gentleman states: “ In cases of bilious headaches, fol¬
lowed by severe attacks of fever, Eno’s Fruit Salt has acted
like a charm, when all other treatment failed. Tbe day is not
distant when a neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases re¬
sulting from poisoned blood will be considered as criminal.”
See The Stomach ‘and its Trial (Tenth Edition), for fourteen
stamps, post free. J. O. ENO, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
.“Vour Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months beforg l commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally; punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.” .
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say : “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers whoget italmostalwaj srecommend
it to their friends. "We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 0d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PHARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX,
SPIRITUALISM:.”” ” •
New Works on its Phenomena, Philosophy, and
Present Position. ■
BY “ M.A. (OXON.)”
I HAVE been frequently asked to publish a book on Spirit¬
ualism.' The facilities which I have enjoyed .for personal
investigation, my acquaintance with the literature of the
subject and with prominent workers in it, and the attention
that I have paid to the investigation of its various phases, have
seemed to many to fit me for such a duty.
It is easier asked than done. A book on Spiritualism, if it
■did but sketch the subject, should be very voluminous; and,
when written, it would .be found to omit more than it: dis¬
cussed or recorded. I cannot write such a book; nor do T
think it desirable that any. stich attempt should be made in'the
present state of our knowledge. •
But I do think it very important that any person who has
special facilities for bbs.eryation should .use them,'and record
their results as best he can. In this belief, I have kept careful
records of what I have seen, and from time to time have pub¬
lished Essays and Reviews on the published opinions of others. ‘
I have also printed a number of chapters of Personal Research
in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism, and have
selected, from a mass that have been automatically written out,
certain Spirit-teachings.
I propose to collect and complete these works.
First, I wish to print a volume of Essays and Reviews.
It will contain, in addition to a number of Reviews of works
of standard American authors—Olcott, Sargent, Tuttle,
Crowell, and others—and a long Essay on the Transcorporeal
Action of Spirit, which have already appeared, much original
matter not yet published. A special feature of the book will
be the introduction to general readers of the best books on
Modern Spiritualism... ,
The volume will be published at 10s. if sufficient names are
enrolled as subscribers to show that such a book is wanted,
t afid will pay expenses. I .decline pecuniary risk.
I propose hereafter (but not nbw) to issue two other works,
—one “ Spirit Teachings,” dealing With the religious aspect
of the question; the other, “ Researches in the Phenomena
and Philosophy of Spiritualism,” dealing with the whole
subject in its experimental phases, and with the theory and
philosophy of it. These will come in' due time if they find
a. place.
For the present I put forward only “Essays and Reviews.” '
The following friends have kindly formed themselves into a
committee with a view of carrying out business arrangements.
Those to whose name * is prefixed will receive names'of
Subscribers, and Mr. Percival, the Treasurer, will receive
subscriptions as they become due.
Details of publication will be given when it becomes clear
that the book will meet a demand. Unless a sufficient number
of copies—about 500—be subscribed for I shall consider that
it is not wise to print
I respectfully beg that no business letters may be sent to
me, as my time is already overtaxed,
“M.A. (OXON.).”
Names of Committee.
♦Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-sq., W.
Mrs. Fitz-gerald, 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde Park, W.
*Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s Park, N.W.
*S. T. Speer, Esq., 13, Alexandra-road, N.W.
♦C. O. Massey, Esq., 96, Portland-place, W.
T. Shorter, Esq, 23, Prince of Wales’-road, N.W.
*B. Coleman, Esq., 1, Bernard-villas, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
F. W. Percival, Esq., 15, Conduit-street, Bond-street, W.,
Treasurer, * to whom all Names are to be sent in,
together with all subscriptions when payable.
Subscribers who do not wish their names to be published,
should inform Mr. Percival to that effect.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than'warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations. '
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
_ People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
j Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ’’ Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all, the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
'SHR SPIRITUALIST 1 FUND.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION FOR 1877 AND 187‘£
' 13 I r.f, !r ' ■£ s. d.
Le Comte de Bullet     Bo 0 O'
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq ....jV.c..20 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq. ! 20 .0 0.
Alexander,Tod, Esq,.,,,,...... v;„,'15 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq?...!.':.'..'.1*....'.....'..*.!.;..: "JoV o.i 0
Alexander Calder, Esq j     Iq' 0 0
N. F. Da.we, Esq   ....;   . ib, 0 i 0
G. O. Joad, Esq 10 ■ V ;o
The Hon. A. Aksakof ,.      10 0 0
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.. .i 10 Q; 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart..'.    10 0 0
M. R. I.    .;.....*..V.     10 jMj
James Mylne, Esq.      10 0 o'
x. ..?     V...... 10 0 0
b :      6 e o
C. T    .'..V..*...V 550
George Sutherland, Esq 6 5 0
T. E. Partridge, Esq...,.    5 0.0
Thomas Grant, Esq    5 0 0
The Countess of Caithness...   5 ,0 ,0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun .' .;... 5 0 ,0
A Friend         5 6Vo
B.           3 0 ,0
Mrs. E. Dixon      2 2 0
The Rev. W. Whitear  ..;  2 2 0
Dr. Baikie......   2 2' 0
Miss Whitear  «   2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood. Esq., M.R.L....  2 2 0
Mrs. Lowe     ^   2 2 0
'S. J. H.   ....;....'....„....1.T.. 2* i2 0
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S   2 2 0
Ennesfallen. .'    2 2 0
W. C. Pickersgill, Esq..      2 0 0
w.-......:.2 0 0
G.V.     2 0 0
S. T. Speer, Esq., M.D   ;...... 2 0 0
W. M. Buchanan, Esq., M.D  2 0 0
A. Yacher, Esq.   ;  2 0 0
Colonel Olcott !   2 0 0
The Baroness von Vay.....  1 10 0
George Lee, Esq.  ;.....  1 l o
G.’R. Tapp, Esq..'. :  110
Mrs. Maltby.. :       110
B. W. Pycock, Esq.        110
Mrs. Nos worthy   '. 11 0
C. T. Hook, Esq   ;... 110
Major Menars     11 0
A. Glendinning, Esq     110
T. P. Barkas, Esq:, F.G.S  1 1 0
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.TeLE    110
Mrs. Hennings     1 1 o
Dr. George Wyld   1 1 0
Miss Allen     1 j0
W. P. Adshead, Esq.  110
John Mould, Esq      110
J. P. Turner, Esq.     110
J. T. Dodd, Esq    110
Mrs. Jeffreys     110
J. C. Eno          110
Miss Douglas      100
John Scott, Esq  10 0
J. C. Ferguson, Esq     i o 0
A. C. Swinton, Esq.    10 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     10 0
Mrs. Tyndall     i o 0
Lieut.-Col. Jacoby    10 0
John Chapman, Esq.   10 0
G. F. Green, Esq  0 10 6
Mrs. E. K. Beeby      0 10 6
R. Catling..       0 10 6
E. R.    1  0 10 6
J. Hare, Esq  0 10 0
M. J.Walhouse, Esq   0 10 0
A Friend         0 10 0
A Friend     0 10 0
T. H     . 0 10 0
Miss Pearce (        0 5 0
J. t. m  J..;:.:.*...........''..;.. o 6 o
Subscriptions to this Fund should be remitted to W. .H
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical with MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By: F.’j.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large numberof inquirers into Spirit-'
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“. Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
Cjr.e Spiritalxsi
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Half-a-
ciown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street,
London : and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the: first post on the previous Wedtetday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. 1, AveMaria-lane, London,
E.0.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
