[Re&istebkd as a Newspaper.
#Itat Jt^fospapr tcram^^f^b Ixiiilj Sphiiualtsm m (&xmt §nfaht.
THE “SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 202. (VOL. VIII.—No. 27.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JULY 7, 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
InternationalSpiirtualism     313
Spirit Photographs By M. A. (Oxon.)    ... 313
The Recovery of Stolen Property by Occult Methods in
India:—Pot Divination—A Thief Detected by Occult
Means 314
The Moral Influence of Spiritualism  315
Spiritualism in America:—A "Wonderful Materialisation
Test Seance—Moulds of Materialised Spirit Hands ... 316
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances. By George "Wyld, M.D. ... ...318
Warned by a Dream   ... ...  318
The National Association of Spiritualists ... ... ... ...318
The National Association of Spiritualists :—Meeting of the
Scientific Research Committee   319
Spiritualism in Liverpool  - .319
Spiritualism in Florence ... ...  .' ... •; 320
Spiritualism in Dalston      ..." 320
Mediumship Exhibited as Conjuring... ... ...   320
Correspondence:—Dr. Lopez and the Davenports—Art
Magic—The Coleman Testimonial—Mr. Eglinton in
the West of England and South Wales—Spiritualism
in Hungary—The “ Five Minutes’ Resolution ”—The
Education of the Children of Spiritualists—The Doc¬
trine of Eternal Progression versus the Doctrine of
Instantaneous Beatification—The Future State of Ex¬
istence — Powerful Spiritual Manifestations—^Magi¬
cians and Mediums—Spectres of Animals 321
Spiritual Conference at Newcastle 324
Answers to Correspondents   324
Paragraphs:—Reception at Dr. Speer’s, 317; Juvenile Edu¬
cation, 319; A Garden Party at Iselipp’s Manor, 319;
Spiritualistic Marriage Ceremony, 324; Dr. Slade’s
Visit to England, 324; Passed to the Higher Life, 324;
Seance at Brixton  324
MRS, .WELDON’S INVITATION CONCERT.
ST. JAMES’S HALL.
WEDNESDAY, 19th JULY, 1876, AT EIGHT P.M.
Doors open at Half-past Seven.
Artists—Mrs. WELDON AND HER PUPILS.
Orchestra (Leader, Mr. POLLITZER) composed of Members
of Covent Garden and Drury Lane Opera Houses.
CHORUS—ALEXANDRA PALACE AND GOUNOD CHOIRS.
Conductors—Mr. ALFRED CELLIER, Mr. HAMILTON
CLAEKE, and Mr. JOHN URIOH.
First Part.
JEANNE D’ARC   Ch. Gounod.
1. Pastoral Introduction (Orchestra)
2. “ From our homes we are flying” (Chorus).
3. Duett of the Saints—“Jesu Maria" (Mrs. Weldon and
Walter Rawlings, 10 years old, and Chorus).
4. “Kind Fortune"—Ballade du Page.
5. “Dieu le Veut ” (Chorus).
6. “ Away! away 1" (Chorus and Solos).
7. “ Lord, in Thy mercy hear us—Prayer (Chorus).
8. Dialogued Chorus of Women.
9. Coronation March and Chorus—"Noel."
10. Prison Scene—Chorus of Soldiers—Duett of the Saints.,
11. Funeral March.
End of Jeanne D’Are.”
“On the Sea of Galilee” (Matthew viii. 23—27)... Ch. Gounod.
Symphony and Recitative, Mrs. Weldon.
All the Children will intone, after Mrs. Weldon, The Lord’s
Prayer.
Tommie and Jackie (aged between 3 and 4 years) will play the
Minuet from Gounod’s “ Jeanne D’Arc. ’
Katie (2 years, 5 months and a half old) will recite “ I love
little Pussie.”
Walter Rawlings (10 years old) will sing “Lullaby,” by his
brother Alfred (14 years old).
Mrs, Weldon, Charles, Alfred, Walter Rawlings, and the
Children will sing Gounod’s Part Song, “My true, love hath
my heait.”
Ballad ... “The Flower Girl” (new song) ... Alfred Cellier.
Mrs. Weldon.
Then will follow, “ Dickory Dickory Dock,” “ Mistress Mary,”
“ Whittington and his Cat,” and “ The Man in the Moon."
After which the Children will make a collection for the benefit
of Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
Second Part.
Grand Processional March, arranged expressly for the Gounod
Concerts (Ch. Gounod), from the opera of “Polyenete."
By the Orchestra.
Part Song ... “To the Cuckoo"   Alfred Rawlings.
Unaccompanied Choir.
Fragments from “ Nourmahal”  John Uricht
1. Overture for the Orchestra.
2. Invocation of the Fairies and their Queen (Solo, Chorus,
and Orchestra).
Serenade (Hamilton Clarke), composed expressly in aid of
Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage.
“ Amarilla,” an African melody (JohnUrich), for Solo, Chorus,
and Orchestra^
Mrs. Weldon (Tavistock House, Tavistock-square) will he
bappy to send invitations to any one who wishes, for the m.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Hmorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Scorns.-—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can (only be admitted to the ordinary seance
leld on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances at
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
reguiariy supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following., viz.:
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any hooks and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire
SPECIAL SEANCES FOR INVES-
GATORS. A series of seances are to he held on the
Tuesday afternoons of every week until further notice at the
residence of Mrs. Woodforde, 90, Great Russell-street. Usual
phenomena. Movement of objfcts in the fight. Medium, Mr.
Arthur Coleman, who has kindly Offered bis services for this
especial purpose. Seances will begin at 3 p.m., punctually.
Fee, 5s.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
en the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection gf Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniog.
A Pamphlef with full particulars, may he had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &ii., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d, Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.C.
Agenda for July, 1876.
Friday, 7tt.—Experimental Research Committee’s Seance
. with Miss Fowler, 8 p.m.
Monday, IDth.—Mr. Blackburn’s Free Seance. Miss Lotti«
Fowler, medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, ll<7i.—Finance Committee, at 6 p.m,
„ Prize Essay Committee, at 6.15 p.m.
„ Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, lilh.—Experimental Research Committee's Seance
with Miss Fowler, at 8 p.m.
Monday, VIth.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6 p.m.
COMMITTEES OF THE B.N.A.S.*
Experimental Research Committee :
Mr. D. G. Fitzgerald, M.S Tel.E., Chairman.
Mi-. C.F. Yarley, F.R.S., Mr. W. H. Coffin, Dr. C. Carter Blake,
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. C. C. Massey,
Rev. W. Newbould, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr. George King,
Mr. H. Withall, Mr. J. W. Gray, Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.
Frize Essay Committee:
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers,
Dr. Keningale Cook.
Finance Committee:
Mr. Morell Theobald, Chairman.
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. Alex. Calder.
* The remaining Committees are in course of reconstruction;
R1ZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Religions Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Alien, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is. l£d.
East London spiritdal meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’a
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.»
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances. &c.: Sundays. Healing, at Ham.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
S p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALISTS’ SOCIETY.
LECTURES.—JULY, 1876.
Mr. J. J. Morse:—
“ Trance Address ” ... Sunday, July 2, at 3 p.m,
„ „ ... „ „ 2, at 7 „
„ ,, ... Monday, „ 8, at 7,30 „
Mr. W. G. Simpson:—
“The Existence of God
as Illustrated by Poets ” Sunday, July 9, at 7 p.m.
Mr. Westgarth :—
“InspirationalAddress” Sunday, July 16, at 7 p.m.
Mr. Thomas Pattison:—
“ Swedenborg's Heaven
and Hell ”   Sunday, July 23, at 7 p.m.
Mr. John Mould:—
“ Conflict between Science
and Religion ” ... Sunday, July 30, at 7 p.m.
Admission Free. Collection at the elose.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“ Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will he published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,” Ch. Rawlings, &e., will
also contribute, hut the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C.
OTICE.—The Materialisation Seances adver¬
tised for Wednesday evening at 329, Kentish-town-road
will not take place. A developing circle will be held at eight
as usual. Admission, Is.—W. Wallace.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Soientifie
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-read, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 hooks and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of hooks, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the popu’ation is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, Q.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 7, 1876,
11
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, \V est Brompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Dldsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Qolders-nill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, w.
Gully, .1. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hid, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islingtou-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood. Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Kamsay, Mrs., 40. Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, E. 1) .Rose-villa, Church-end,Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.AV.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinuery, Samuel. 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Collin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gavdens, Queen’s-gate, S.AV.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Araubrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, AAL
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edinands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New AA’andsworth, S.AV.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.AV.
Fltton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.AV.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.AV.
Glendinning A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, AVestbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, 11. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivlmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, AV.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, AV.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.AV.
Mansell, F. W.. The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place.AV.
Mawson, AVm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, AAL D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. AA’arwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road,S E
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.AV.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George AV., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
AValhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
AVedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
AVhite, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
AVilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and3, Altenburg-terrace,Clapham Junction, S.AV.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, AV.
Wltliail, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.AV.
AVitjiall, IL, 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.AV.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
MartH; Jt. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, AVimbledon-common, S.AV.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisllngbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
PrinceEmiie de Sayn AVittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General do S-M.X. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. AVittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaaof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmleld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
51. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J.M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, AVest Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmtlian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Llndesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
B. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
Q, L. Hiteon, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
IW. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
j J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
] Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
i Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
1 M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
| M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de i’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
j Brussels.
r J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
1 Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
j Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris,
j W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
I Dr. Grunhut, AVaitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary,
j Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary,
j J. AV. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
j Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Ileref'ord-road, Bajrsw'ater, W.
j Mrs. Hallock, 46, Ilereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
j Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—George Browne,
Esq., 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espauola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—LI Visconde de Torres-Solancft.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M R.C.S.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
/Secretory.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—'Mx. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Committee of Management. — Mr. J ones, Mr. J. Haslin, Mr.
William Meridith, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, and Miss
Dickson.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charleton, Mr. James Monk.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeiay, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 6 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship French spoken. At
home Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays.
Private Seances attended.
Noticb.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seances at her own residence; previous notice required; fees
upon arrangement with medium.
T. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
ISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
■VTOTICE. — CHANGE OF RESIDENCE. —
JL v Mrs. Olive has removed to 15, Ainger-terrace, Ainger -
road, King Henry’s-road, Primrose-hill, N.W. Three minutes
from Chalk-farm Station; five minutes from omnibus to
Oxford-street or West-end. Seancrs as usual for clairvoyance,
medical mesmerism, trance, tests, &c. Private seances by
arrangement; public ditto, Tuesdays, 7 p.m., Fridays, 3 p.m.;
admission, 2s. 6d. Visits within ten miles two guineas, in¬
clusive.
PHYSICAL SEANCES, Light and Dark. Mrs. Olive has
arranged for a series of Seances with Mr. Bullock jun., on
Mondays at 7 p.m. Admission, 5s. Materialisations and other
interesting phenomena are now constantly produced under test
conditions.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms ou application by letter.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (SO Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIE eglinton, medium,
can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham¬
stow.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rpHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL. D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the liierature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London; Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HuMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile or soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simekin, Marshalt, & Co.-
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
■jy/riss LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
A-'-®- American Somnambuli it. Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Hours. 1 till 8 p.m. Terms, one guinea.
Physical seances for Spiritualists only on Thursday and Saturday
evenings at 8 o’clock, 5s. Miss Fowler does not reply to
correspondence, nor see visitors on Sunday. Address—2,
Vemon-place, Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
Mediumship : its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for 1 Jd.; or six copies post free
for Cd.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street*
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTBLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, Briti h National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
WANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoyant.
Would not object to trance.—T.Y., 16, Stafford-street, Maryle-
bone-road, W.  
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals candueted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATCHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &c.
Chief Office: 47, Crawford Street, Bryanston
Square, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
elegram.
mo LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi-
JL detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6$
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
SOUTHPORT. — Superior APARTMENTS
now vacant in a very open, healthy situation, highly re¬
commended by former visitors as a really comfortable home,
with good cooking and attendance combined, with moderate
charges. Can let three entertaining and six bedrooms.'—Mrs;
Davies, Fern Lea, 96, Sussex-road, Southport,
j[ xil J)i]xrgq$$ uf nttb tl
VoLujviE Bi^Htl Number Twenty-seven.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 7th, 1876.
INTERNATIONAL SPIRITUALISM. j
The first article in the Revue Spirite for July, in treating |
of the desirability of union between Spiritualists in all |
countries, points out that among the best means of promot- ;
ing it is that put forward in a late article in this journal, |)
namely, that the offices of the British National Associa- K
tion of Spiritualists shall be made the bibliographical centre i
of Spiritualism for the whole world ; in fact, that it shall !
become an international bureau for all countries. To this end j |
correspondence must be opened with all the Spiritual
societies and conductors of Spiritual periodicals; the chief j)
works on Spiritualism in all languages must have a place in j j
its library, and, above all, the central establishment must be il
a dep6t for all the periodical literature, of which complete j)
files shall be always at hand for reference, no distinction ||
being made on account of special views represented by !
particular journals. If this work were begun at once the |
National Association Library would in time become to [|
Spiritualism what the British Museum Library is to the I (
whole English reading public of the United Kingdom; 11
indeed, in one small respect it would rival it, because a large | i
number of Spiritual works being published only in America, I
and being quickly out of print, they would be found with |
more certainty on the shelves of the one than in the vaults of j
the other. !
The Revue then quotes a list of Spiritual periodicals which | j
appeared recently in the Messager de Liege. A few of these, j
having to our knowledge ceased to exist, have been omitted j (
from the following transcript, and we should be glad.to re- j|
ceive information about several of the remainder:—Ger- j |
many, Psychic Studies; Austria, Rejlexionen aus der |
Geisterwelt; Belgium, Le Messager and De Rots ; France, j
Revue Spirite and Fraternite Spirite et Litteraire; Italy, ! ■
Annali dello Spiritismo and La Salute; England, The j j j
Spiritualist, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, and The ! \ \
Medium and Daybreak; Spain, El Criteria Espiritista, i j
Revista Espiritista, El Espiridismo, La Revelacion, La | j
Fraternidad, and El Buen Sentido; Turkey, VEcho j j!
d? Orient; Egypt, La VeriU; Australia, The Harbinger of j j j
Light; United States, The Banner of Light, The Spiritual m
Scientist; The Spiritualist at Work, The Little Bouquet, |||
American Spiritual Magazine, Religio-Philosophical Journal, I j
The Philadelphia Sun and The Dagslyset; Mexico, La j |
Illustracion Espiritista, La Luz en Mejico, La Ley de Amor ; j j
Cuba, La Luz de Ultratumba; Brazil, Revista Espiritista ! j
and Echo de Alem Tumulo; Uruguay, Revista Espiritista; ||
Peru, El Espiritismo; Chili, El Espiritista; in all, thirty- j
eight journals and reviews. j j
A Library Committee will probably soon be formed in j j
connection with the British National Association of Spirit- j j
ualists, and it is to be hoped that somebody with the requi- | j |
site faculty for the work will take the matter in hand, of j j j
keeping in stock all the current foreign literature of Spirit- I j j
ualism, including periodicals, books, and pamphlets. The m
collection of past foreign works on the subject would at j I
present involve too much expense, so friends in distant
countries cannot do better than to make a gift to the British j | j
National Library of all those books and pamphlets which j) i
they believe to deserve careful preservation. Facilities |sj
should be given to Spiritualists in foreign countries who jjj
desire to make verbatim extracts from any scarce books in i)l
the collection. ||
Last Sunday afternoon Mr. J. J. Morse gave a trance address at j \ I
Newcastle-on-Tyne. The subject was “ What is Religion; and How i))
are its Observances to be Understood ?” Mr. Kersey presided. The j (i
evening meeting, which was a crowded one, was presided over by Mr. j (|
T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., and the subject of the trance address was “ The i j
Origin of the World.” «(i
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS.
BY M. A. (OXON).
The stride made of late in demonstrating by scientific
experiment the objective phenomena of Spiritualism is very
great. It seems as though a wave had come which had
advanced the high-water mark, and, with its full flood of
new and clearly-defined truth, had swept away much of the
haziness and indefiniteness of the past. We are beginning
to get phenomena under conditions which the most pre¬
judiced sceptic cannot quarrel with. Late experiments
recorded in these pages leave little to be desired on the
score of completeness. It is to be hoped that they may be
so followed up as to secure not only the production, but the
repetition at will of phenomena—the simpler the better—
under conditions where they can be scientifically observed.
The stride made in other ways has extended to the most
hazy and uncertain of all branches of Spiritualism—Spirit
Photography. It has been the misfortune of those who
have paid attention to this subject that they have been
hampered by (to put it mildly) adverse circumstances. It is
uncertain in its operation, makes large demands on patience,
time, and purse, and the best photographer who had the re¬
quisite power, the man who got the best results, developed
with marvellous rapidity another power which multiplied
the first. So skilfully did he counterfeit that the public
declined (not unnaturally, but still quite wrongly, as I do not
doubt) to believe in him at all. So it has come to pass that
one of the most convincing and satisfactory pieces of evi¬
dence—for be it remembered that as a camera has no imagina¬
tion, and records only what is placed before it; it should,
therefore, be easy to guard against imposture—one of the
best means of coming to terms with a sceptic has been left
unproven.
Of late, however, an approach to satisfactory conditions
has been secured by an American photographer—indeed by
two—who have produced results of which the description
given is almost too good to be true. The story, however, is
circumstantially told by good witnesses, and is worth sum¬
marising.
First comes a photograph taken by Mr. B. P. Brown, of
Boston, respecting which my friend Mr. Epes-Sargent, who
was kind enough to send me the picture, testifies as follows:
<( Mr. Brown is a man, I should judge, between twenty-five
and thirty, and his appearance is in his favour. My friend
Allan Putnam, who has given much time to the subject, has
no doubt of the genuineness of his pictures. Mr. Dudley,
who vouches for this particular portrait—got in the dark, is
a clerk in the Banner of Light office, and has been known to
me some twelve years. He marked the glass on which the
negative was taken, and superintended the whole process, as
did Mr. Putnam also. Both are fully persuaded that there
was no fraud.”
The picture in question shows the head and bust of a
female figure as unghost-like as can be conceived. The hair,
fashionably dressed, falls in long curls on the shoulder; and
the face is decidedly pretty. Were it not that the picture is
a little hazy (not “ sharp”), it might be the portrait of some
Broadway belle. This is alleged to have been produced in
total darkness on a marked plate, and lends considerable
sanction to the idea that, in some cases at least, the modus
operandi is directly with the plate, and is analogous to the
production of writing or drawing by spirits without the use
of writing or drawing materials. Mr. Coleman has in his
possession drawings of this kind, and I have repeatedly
known cases of direct writing so produced. I have one
special piece in different colours where I know that no pencil
was used.
But Mr. Epes Sargent mentions a still more remarkable
case, in which a sceptical photographer of Boston, a well-
314
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 7, 1876.
known artist, by name Black, obtained a most curious result
at a sitting with this same B. P. Brown. Mr. Black sat for
a photograph, and the resulting picture bears no trace of the
sitter whatever, though he /(was properly focussed, but the
chair is distinct in every detail, even to the part which must
have been hidden by his body, and behind it stands u a re¬
markably well defined spirit form.” Mr. Black is not a
Spiritualist, and professes his entire inability to explain the
result. He is to publish an account in the American
Journal of Photography, which I shall hope to quote on its
appearance.
Another successful photographer of spirit forms is Mr.
Jay J. Hartman, of Cincinnati, Ohio. His results are
chiefly remarkable for being obtained in the presence of a
sceptical committee of expert photographers. The first case
that reached England was recorded in the Spiritual Scientist,
January 13th of this year. There were seven practical
photographers on the committee, who certify unanimously
that Mr. Hartman did not handle the plate or enter the dark
room when the successful result was obtained. Moreover,
the experiment was conducted in the room of a sceptical
photographer, who was u an expert in detecting the spirit
picture trickery,” and Mr. Hartman had never entered the
studio before the sitting in question. The picture, though
perfectly clearly defined, was not recognised by any person
present.
Encouraged by this success, Mr. Hartman again came
forward with a challenge to the public to investigate his
manipulation, and see his results at his owm rooms, Ho. 100,
West Fourth-street, Cincinnati, at ten o’clock of the morn¬
ing of May 21st ult. He invited “ men of character, deci¬
sion, and acuteness, able and quick to detect fraud, and
willing to admit a fact when proven; especially editors and
photographers, also our city divines (!)” uEach person
taking part in the investigation must provide himself with
three plates, and be thoroughly searched as I will be. . . .
Before the investigation the dark room, camera, and every¬
thing about the room shall be thoroughly searched by a com¬
mittee appointed, until all are completely satisfied that every¬
thing is correct.”
To this straightforward challenge Mr. H. Blatter, an ex¬
pert photographer, replied, offering to give 100 dollars to a
charitable object if Mr. Hartman would come and take
“ spirit pictures ” in his (Mr. Slatter’s) own room. It was
finally arranged that Mr. Blatter should join the company at
Mr. Hartman’s, prepared with his own plates: and after
vainly trying two other studios, the meeting adjourned to
Mr. Slatter’s, the plates, camera, and chemicals being those
in regular use in his establishment. The first plate showed
no result. The second, developed by another photographer
in the presence of Mr. Blatter, showed ua faint yet definable
image of a young child, seated in the lap of the sitter.” The
third showed a a faint image of a young man in the upper
left corner of the plate,” which was marked with a diamond.
A fourth plate (all Mr. Slatter’s own), marked and examined,
and wrorked throughout by Messrs. Smith and Hopkins,
Mr. Hartman simply standing and placing his hand on the
camera, showed “ a large oval shadow resting on the
shoulder of the sitter, in the centre of which was a faint
image of a middle-aged man.”
At' this point several of the valiant pilgrims, who had
promised to sign a certificate provided a result was obtained,
and who had declared that they were satisfied of Hartman’s
honesty and integrity, and with the results produced, quietly
folded their mantles about them and glided away.
Determined to keep their promise made to Mr. Hartman,
the gentlemen remaining signed the following certificate
as fairly and honourably won by him, which we give verbatim:
u Mr. Jay J. Hartman, having gone to Mr. H. Slatter’s
photographic gallery, and accepted the use of his camera,
chemicals, &c., we hereby certify that three indistinct
forms made their appearance on the plate beside the sitter;
and we are satisfied that they were produced by some means
unknown to us—and without any Jraud on his part, as he
never entered the dark room or handled the plates.
“ Benj. F. Hopkins. Robert Leslie.
“ Edwin Pinchon, M.D. Joseph Kinsey.
“ C, F. Hester.
u In justice to myself before signing the above, I add,
that although I, at the request of several present, prepared
the above plates, I was not present at their development,
although I was requested to do so; the above, however,
were all my own plates. Henry Blatter.”
It will be observed that Mr. Hartman’s part consisted
•only in placing his hand on the camera. He was thoroughly
searched, had no machinery for fraud at hand, and took no
part in preparing and developing the plates. It would be
difficult to imagine a more complete case of “ killing a man
with his own sword,” or one in which the conditions of in¬
vestigation were more satisfactory.
THE RECOVERY OF STOLEN PROPERTY BY OCCULT
METHODS IN INDIA.
Mr. Benjamin Coleman, of Upper Norwood, has favoured
us with the following interesting communications for pub¬
lication :—
Simla, India, June 3, 1876.
Mr Dear Mr. Coleman,—When I saw you in 1871 just
before my departure from England, you asked me to com¬
municate with you if I should observe any Spiritualistic
phenomena amongst the natives of India, but until lately I
have heard of nothing that would interest you. A short time
ago, however, a Major in the Royal Engineers described to
me a curious scene that he had witnessed of the employ¬
ment of a native who was celebrated for the discovery of
stolen property by a species of divination, which bore so
remarkable a similarity to the case of Jacques Ayman in
France, as narrated in page 57 of Wallace's Miracles and
Modern Spiritualism, that I was tempted to inquire further
into it. I send you a copy of the statement made by Major
B of the Royal Engineers, a gentleman in whose word I
can place implicit confidence. All my inquiries resulted only in
finding that this kind of divination was very common in
India, but I failed to get a man to come to me to exhibit
his powers. One of the Rajah’s near here said that there
were inany men in the neighbourhood who pretended to
powers of divination, but there were none reliable about this
part of India, or at all events in the immediate neighbour¬
hood.
I also send you the statement of a native servant of Colonel
Marshall, who alleges that he saw money recovered in this
manner.
Very similar proceedings are alluded to by Tyler in
Primitive Culture, pages 142 and 143, vol. ii., as happen¬
ing in central Africa and in Northern Asia.
My friend, Colonel Marshall, who has given to me the
statement of his servant, is going to England before long,
and he is desirous of inquiring into Spiritualism and seeing
for himself; I have given him a letter of introduction to
you in the hope that you kindly put him into the way of
following out his intentions. Your little pamphlet on the
Rise and Progress of Spiritualism in England, has interested
me very much. I have lent it to many people in India who
have cared to talk about such things.
G. L. M.
B. Coleman, Esq.
POT DIVINATION.
Statement of Karim Bahsh, Kitmutgar in the service of
Colonel W. E. Marshall^ of the Bengal Staff Corps, Indian
army.
In the year 1863, I was “ table servant ” of Major Shake¬
speare, Deputy Commissioner at Benares station, from whom
five hundred rupees had been stolen. A man, a Hindoo,
was brought to him, who was noted for his power of detecting
thieves by the “ siphale ilm ” (or the “ pot trick ”). This
man plastered a little plot of ground near Major Shake¬
speare’s house; in this he sat with a brass pot, such as is
ordinarily kept by natives for holding water. He purified
the pot by passing it over a little fire which he made, and
into which he threw incense. This done, he said a prayer or
charm over the pot. He then set the pot down by him on
the ground, on which it began to revolve. Ordering it to
u go andfind the thief," it moved off as he blew once on it,
and spinning it went for about a mile entirely by itself, a
crowd of sight-seers merely following. When it arrived at
July 7, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
315
a certain spot it halted, and went round and round in the !||
space of a cart wheel, when the man told the people to dig m
at the spot, which they did, exhuming three hundred rupees.
The man then took the pot, and, repeating the charm, blew | j
on it, giving the order a second time to uJind the thief.” |||
The pot moved to a field close by, where two hundred rupees (|
more were found. Informant says he saw the whole process [l
himself.—(Signed) W. E. Marshall, Colonel, Simla, May 11
30th, 1876. !
A THIEF DETECTEDlBY OCCULT MEANS. (
!(
Major B., of the Royal Engineers, has given me the | !
following account:— |
In the year^lSTO, at Dalhousie, in the Himalayas, Lieu- j
tenant S., his assistant, was robbed of one hundred rupees, j
and sent for a u Chulah ” (a man who professed to find out j
thieves by the u siphale ilm,” or pot trick). This u Chulah ” j j
obtained a lotah (or brass pot similar to that described in | j
the previous statement), and poured rice and salt over it. j j
He then took it to the place where the money was supposed | j
to have been before the robbery, and again pouring ghee, H
rice, and salt over it, repeated some kind of incantation over | i
it, whispering into the lotah. He then asked Lieutenant II
S. to name one of his servants whom he wished to employ | j
as the medium for moving the lotah. j I
He made the man thus named take hold of the lotah, and j j
immediately afterwards the man appeared to be dragged off j j
by the lotah, and rushed about, apparently following it un- j l
willingly, and perspiring profusely. After about two hours j j
passed in this way, it rolled over and over several times in j j
succession, and at last over the sill of a door, which, being j j
examined, the one hundred rupee note was found under it. j j
The thief then confessed, and was sent to prison; but he j j
said he had never held any communication with the chulah | j
through whose instrumentality he had been convicted. In j |
fact, the two men were of different castes, which-could have j I
no communication with each other. 1(1
Major B. afterwards having been robbed of a cash-box, | j
sent for the same chulah, to see if he could recover it. He j||
also witnessed the process as described above in all its par- j j
ticulars, naming one of his servants to take hold of the j j
lotah. This man in the same way went for about two miles !||
over a very rough country, apparently unwillingly, until he j |
came to a place where the cash-box had evidently been buried, I j
but again exhumed; the medium was, however, too much | !
exhausted to proceed with the search that evening, and |(|
Major B. left the place the next day, so that he was unable j j
to prosecute the search further. Major B. says that the j j
native police have great faith in these chulahs for the detection ill
of stolen property, and the chulahs decline to act unless m
police are present for their protection. G. L. M.
THE MORAL INFLUENCE OF SPIRITUALISM. [|
{Part of a public Trance Oration delivered through the Mediumship of j J j
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan at Chicago.) j)!
Spiritualism differs from other sciences in this : that it |)|
has no specialities, that there are no absolute authorities m
upon the subject; but it is a question that each may make jlj
himself an authority upon, and that so intimately concerns ijl
every individual mind, that if you care to question about it m
in any manner whatever, you may become yourselves the In
students of the system in various degrees. As a matter of )|
fact you may investigate Spiritualism, believe there is some- |||
thing in it, but still it may not have the slightest effect upon jlj
your life or actions here in any manner whatever. Such are |)|
phenomenal Spiritualists, who accept the phenomena, con- j(j
sider them genuine, believe there is a future state, and go iH
on their way, just as many Christians do, regardless of the
world to come. There are those who believe in the philo- jlj
sophy of Spiritualism, who have made themselves profounder jjj
students, who consider that it is a growth, and who accept l|l
what it gives concerning the law of change called death as a jlj
clear solution of the most profound mystery in existence, j/j
Indeed, to this class of minds it comes in the form of a reve- j|||
lation. It is the solving of that wonderful problem; it is jll
the revealing of the keystone in the archway of existence jlj
whereby the one great mystery is unlocked, the one chasm ||j
bridged over, the one terror swept away. The moral effect jlj
of the abolition of fear in the world is in itself so great that
if it were possible now to wipe out from the human mind all
fear of death by a philosophical knowledge of the change
called death, it would have more effect upon human
existence than all theoretical knowledge put together. The
fact that science has approximately done so has elevated the
moral standard of humanity without, perhaps, improving
the religious or spiritual nature; but when behind the
science there is a system of philosophy that supplants fear
without taking devotion away, that adds rather to the
spiritual appreciation by giving knowledge in place of belief,
when there is a system that reaches so far into man’s
existence as to show him the problem of life by proving
to him that it never perishes, then it becomes the
solution of the mighty problem of the ages, and uplifts
mankind from the paltriest passion that ever obscured
the human reason, namely, fear. You know what men
will do in blindness of terror-—what madness they exhibit
at the approach of death, what cowardice when taken
unawares. You know what death has been in the world—
the one skeleton by the fireside, the one dark closet in the
corner of life, the one terror that seer, philosopher, and
preacher have sought to overcome. You know how it abides
in the thought of the young. You know how in maturer
years the cheek blanches at the thought of death, unless
accompanied by a loftier motive of love or patriotism. You
know that martyrs and saints have triumphed over it because
of the consciousness of spiritual life beyond, and because of
the faith and fervour that has upheld and sustained them.
Make death not a demon of darkness, not a fiend of terror,
not a skeleton clothed in armour, that comes to attack the
world, and slay humanity, but rather the fruition of life, the
blossoming out of existence here, the continuation of the
growth of the tree, the shedding abroad of the leaves and
the branches that have been cultured here in obscurity and
darkness, and you have a moral lever in the world that no
religious zeal nor fire can exceed, that patriotism cannot,
with its spasmodic expression, equal, and that only love divine
and perfect can excel in any degree.
And this is the philosophy of Spiritualism. Wherever the
fact has become apparent to the human mind, wherever the
members of the household group have received evidence of
the presence of departed friends, it is not like the ancient
oracle, the Mithraic cave, in the superstitious ages of dark¬
ness, but it is the presence of loving friends, the conscious¬
ness of their power in the fireside and family circle, the.
recognition of ties, the blending of hearts and lives, the
revelation of another existence. It is a sublime encompass¬
ing by the power of knowledge of that mystery which every
heart yearns to solve, but which must remain unsolved unless
it be revealed by this system of philosophy and science.
The moral effect of this must be adjudged by yourselves.
We know of nothing save absolute right and the love of it,
save truth and the love of it for its own sake, save the all-
conquering and controlling love of the Infinite, that with
profound compassion encircles all human weakness—wre
know of nothing save these things so calculated to uplift
humanity from the debasing cares and narrow region of
external life as the consciousness of the presence of departed
ones.
The belief that they were dead—the belief that they were
placed afar off on some tender shelf of memory—the belief
that, above your reach, they abode in some loftier air, where
you could never penetrate, and that you were required by
some process of spiritual transubstantiation to meet them
there, was an elevating belief. How much more elevating
and valuable the knowledge that the love you bear to them,
and they to you is so substantial, that it finds a way to
bridge over this great voiceless silence; that on some
invisible chord of vibration they may speak the words and
reveal the consciousness of their individual minds, so that
not their memory but they themselves are there and abide
with you. You know what an earthly mother’s love is ; you
know how through all the years of childhood and youth her
prayers, her admonitions, her gentle voice, form the one
loadstar of moral excellence to the youthful mind. You
know that even when dissipation and crime creep in, hers is
the only extenuating earthly love, and hers the only prayer
that follows to dungeon, to cell, and, if need be, to gallows
and death. When you think of an earthly mother thus,
316
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 7, 1876,
what shall it not be if, beyond the gateway of time and ]>!
sense, above your prison bars of outward life, she beats her j S
breast with prayers and petitions and loving admonition j]f
still? What does it not become when death itself has no | f
power over that love, but all the more brightly does it shine, j j
and ail the more does it illumine the captive’s pathway, HI
and the worldling’s lonely routine of life? Ah! if the | |
mother be the saviour of man’s outward life, what shall her j j
love not be when transfigured and glorified beyond the out- j |
ward life ! It becomes then, for evermore, an uplifting and : j i
saving grace. It becomes then a shrine of perfect glory, and jj
any message from that mother’s soul is as an abiding light j j
and a sustaining power. Or, be it friend or sacred companion, j
be it from child of your heart, or risen brother or sister, is j j
not the voice sweet, and is not the influence good ?
If there be moral influence in the world, if sainted wife, or I i
mother, or child, have any influence to guide footsteps |j|
aright; if loving friend or brother in companionship turn jo
your paths from evil, and strengthen when resolution falters; j;
if teacher, by word of wisdom or warning, directs your mind j |
in the right pathway ; if sainted friend, poet, sage, or philo- jo
sopher breathes out, through books and written words, the :)!
evidence of his lofty purpose, and inspires to emulation, then jv
what shall they not do living, who, dead, have this effect jj
upon your memory ? The shrine is there—the sacred citadel j;
of life no longer deserted; the temple transfigured and j
glorified, the altar not of dust, but of flame; the voice, m
not of the past, but of the present; the uplifting, not of jj
memory, but of actual life and hope, to kindle an ever- j j
present flame that fades not away. j j
We know of no Spiritualist who fears death bodily; we jjj
know of none but what fear the moral death in which, alas ! j !
too many souls are found to-day; we know of none but j j
whose conscience is as a searching fire continually find- j j
iug out the dark corners and places of the mind, and quick- j j
e.jed with the ever-present vigilance and ever-watchful life j j
of the angel world, consuming all that is unworthy and full j
of dross. We know of no true Spiritualist who does not de- j j
sire that the angel world shall gaze all the time into their j j
s >uls that are aspiring to a higher and better*life. They fail I j
—every one fails—no one achieves what they hope or expect jjj
t>; but it is something to try, and by earnest trial all the j I
tune, and by turning the face steadily toward the light, it jj
cannot be but that a loftier purpose and grander excellence j j
will be attained in life.
The cupidity and ignorance of the world have made moral j j
standards low, and have caused men to do for fear of detec- j j
tion that which they would not do if left to themselves, j j
This philosophy of Spiritualism, if interpreted aright, places jj!
every human being on the level of his or her thoughts, on j j
.the level of his or her actions, and the judgments are not of jjj
men, but of the spirit, and their spiritual state corresponds '•jjj
to the state of the inner mind. If, in doing away with the j j
fabled kingdom of heaven that is external and literal, and j j
placing heaven where Jesus did, within you, there is less jjj
incentive for excellence; if, in doing away with the fires of j j
ji<.ues in a literal sense, and placing them within the con- j j
science of every human being; if, in lightening the burdens j j
of death so that you shall not so much fear to die as to live, j j
there be an immoral tendency, then Spiritualism may plead jjj
guilty. If the uplifting of the human voice and the jjj
leaching of a truth be to unmask that which is veiled j j
ana hidden, and reveal the true condition of humanity, ; jjj
it it be to inspire the love of truth for its own sake, j j
and the love of love because of those who abide j j
in their home full of kindness and compassion, if it be to j j
tear away the fictitious terrors woven by creed and sophism, j j
and lead man to the assurance that he has nothing worse to Ijj
fear than himself, and if all this be immoral, then Spirit- jjj
ualism teaches immorality. But if it be great and good to jjj
tell the exact condition of every soul here and hereafter, to j j
make each spirit know its own state, and strive for that j j
which is highest and best; if the law of gradual growth j j
supplant the law of providential interference, and lead man jjj
to know that he “ shall work out his own salvation with fear j j
and trembling,” then Spiritualism uplifts the standard, j j
places the basis of human life upon its own merits, reveals jjj
integrity tor its own sake as the highest offering of man, jjj
and reveals love because of love as the greatest boon of the ! ;
angel world. It in nowise relieves humanity of their
burthens or responsibilities; it in nowise performs the
labour of life for you; it only shows the next stage into
which each human being must pass—opening the gateway
that you may see, and revealing the philosophy of that
which lies beyond. But all the time it is as the sunlight,
and the air, as the earth beneath your feet, shining out upon
you, flowing around you and only influencing you as you
receive it. If the thistle and the lily grow side by side and
the thistle receive the same, sunlight that nourishes the
white petals of the lily, shall it be the fault of the sun’s
rays that it is not as beautiful ? If the germs of folly and
pride, and ignorance and passion, are within you, even the
sunlight of truth may be perverted to yield a harvest of
thistles; but if you have aspirations and prayers for truth,
if you seek union with that which is highest and best, if the
friends you invoke are those whose companionship you
would cherish, if the light that you seek from the spiritual
world be the light of purity and of excellence, then Spirit¬
ualism yields to you in the garden of life the fruition of
choice flowers, and golden fruits that hang upon the tree of
life of which you shall not be ashamed.—Banner of Light.
SPIRITUALISM IN AMERICA.
The signs of a marked progress in the direction of a full
scientific verification of the wonderful fact of spirit materiali¬
sation are multiplying on all sides. I send you herewith a
well-attested account of phenomena through Mr. Morris, a
new medium, at Indianapolis. The device of separating the
medium’s side of the cabinet from the spirit’s side by a
wire screen is, I believe, something new. Ample precautions
against fraud seem to have been taken in this case by the
supervising committee; and the evidences of a distinctive
personality in the spirits manifesting, carry much weight.
A WONDERFUL MATERIALISATION TEST SEANCE.
We have been having such wonderful manifestations of late in this
our Capitol City, that I thought it my duty to the friends of our
glorious cause to send you a brief account of the materialisations
witnessed under such test conditions as should satisfy the most scep¬
tical. Our medium, Jas. T. Morris, is a young man about twenty-
four years of age, five feet two inches in height, of a delicate and
feminine appearance, brown hair and brown eyes. He has been de¬
veloping for materialisation about one year, and holding seances three
times a week, but owing to the increase of his business and his
somewhat delicate health, he is now only able to give one seance per
week. At considerable expense he has furnished a fine seance room.
The cabinet is built of seven-eigbth-inch floor boards, stained a black
walnut colour. It is seven feet high, five feet wide, three feet deep,
stands twelve inches from the wall, and is raised eight inches from
the floor. There are two doors opening in front, in one of which
there is an aperture four and a half feet from the bottom of the
cabinet, the size of the opening being fifteen by twenty inches,
covered by a velveteen curtain, which parts in the centre.
The stance of which I write was given on the evening of May
10th. The test was made by inserting a wire screen of one-eighth
of an inch mesh in the cabinet, separating the medium’s side of the
cabinet from the spirits’ side. This screen was fastened at the back by
substantial hinges, at the front by a padlock, and was further secured
by iron clamps and plates bolted to the frame of the screen and
through the cabinet, all the bolts, screws, and nails, being on the
opposite side from the medium. Every joint of the cabinet was sealed
with long strips of thin paper on the outside, so that if there was
any loose board to be moved it would break the seals, and be detected
by the committee. The committee was appointed by the audience,
who, after satisfying themselves that the cabinet was all right, took
the medium into an adjoining room and disrobed him, made a thorough
examination, then reconducted him to the seance room, and reported to
the audience that they had found nothing upon his person, and that the
cabinet was all right. The medium then took the seat in bis side of the
cabinet and was locked in. The lights were reduced, but still sufficient
was left to plainly distinguish the features of every person in the room.
The choir commenced singing “ Let the Beautiful Gates Ajar.” The
audience sat motionless, watching the aperture with eager attention.
Soon a low fluttering sound was beard within the cabinet, and when it
ceased, a hand suddenly divided the curtains and the form of a gentle¬
man appeared, fully six feet high, dark eyes, heavy eyebrows, long dark
beard and moustache, wearing a broadcloth suit, and was recognised by
several persons present who had known him in earth-life as Mr.
Whitcomb. He requested the choir to sing a favourite song of his,
and after remaining a few minutes to hear it, thanked them and bade
the company good night.
An interval of about five minutes elapsed, when the Indian control,
who holds the medium, spoke from the cabinet, saying that a spirit was
coming who wanted much light. The three lights of the chandelier,
hanging within six feet of the cabinet, were turned on at full head.
The curtains were then suddenly parted, and a thrill of surprise went
through the audience when they saw a tall, broad-shouldered, broad-
July 7, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
317
faced German looking out on them with critical interest. He was so
unlike the form that preceded him, and unlike the medium, that his
appearance created something like awe in the company. His eyes were
a deep blue, and in the bright light of the chandelier looked unnaturally
brilliant and uncommonly beautiiul. He wore a long moustache of a
reddish tinge, had a bristly beard on his chin, such as a man with a
strong beard might have who had neglected to shave for two weeks, and
his hair was a light brown. He was dressed in a coat of some thick,
rough-looking material, on the right lapel of which glistened a golden
five-pointed star. A scarf of plaid flannel was carelessly crossed on his
breast, and a white handkerchief was tied loosely around his neck. He
stood in full view of the audience for several minutes, then bowing,
dropped the curtain and was seen no more.
Then came the figure of a man who seemed fully six feet two inches
in height, dark-blue eyes and dark-brown moustache. This was one of
the medium’s band who has never given his name, and is called the
“ Unknown.”
After he had retired, the Indian control announced the coming of
another of the band known as Tim O’Connor. He opened the cabinet
door, and, stepping out, shook hands with several of the audience, talk¬
ing in a rich Irish brogue, accepted and ate a piece of candy which was
presented to him by one of the ladies. He was three inches taller than
the medium by actual measurement, wears a sandy beard and mous¬
tache, and dresses in an ancient Irish costume. He remained out about
ten minutes, then bade the company good night.
After another interval of about five minutes, which was relieved by
some fine singing by the choir, the spirits’ door of the cabinet again
opened, and displayed to our view the beautiful form of a young and
handsome lady, stylishly dressed in a long flowing white robe, and
known as Millie Thorpe, another of the medium’s band. She is of
medium height, fair complexion, with long golden hair flowing over her
shoulders. She recognised and shook hands with several of those pre¬
sent who had attended upon previous occasions, chatted in a modest
and extremely winning way, and accepted some candy, which she ate
in our presence. She remained about fifteen minutes, and on returning
slowly to the cabinet, commenced gradually to dematerialise, so that by
the time she reached the door she had diminished fully two feet in
height, and correspondingly in size of form. Then she seemed to be
slowly drawn by some unseen power into the cabinet, and, while standing
within the door, in full view of all, gradually dematerialised to the size
of a babe not more than eighteen inches in height. She reached out
her little hand and arm, and waved it to and fro, then the door closed,
and she was gone from our sight, to the regret of all.
The next to appear was a gentleman about five feet ten inches in
height, with dark hair and long dark beard, who was recognised by a
gentleman present as his father-in-law, who passed away in August
last. This was followed by a face imperfectly defined.
In a few minutes afterwards the Indian control announced that they
had exhausted all their power, and the signal was given to unlock the
cabinet door. The medium was found in an exhausted and unconscious
state, from which he did not arouse for some minutes.
The committee again overhauled the cabinet, examined every seal,
tried every bolt and screw, and announced to the audience that every¬
thing about the cabinet was satisfactory. The medium then offered to
be searched again, but the committee said it was not necessary.
The hard sceptics admitted that this seance completely puzzled them,
and overturned all theories of the medium personating different cha¬
racters. At the request of some, the medium stood up inside of the
cabinet, when it was found that his face merely reached a little above
the opening.
A gentleman present then drew up a paper and read it before the
company, and requested them to sign it as an endorsement of Mr. Morris
as a materialising medium. It was very readily signed. The following
is a copy of the statement, with the signatures:—
Marion County, Indianapolis, Ind., May 10th, 187G.
Wo, the undersigned, attended a test seance for materialisation, given by
James T. Morris on the evening of May 10th, 1876, and are fully satisfied that
under the test conditions the faces which appeared at the aperture, and the
forms which stepped from the cabinet, were not that of Mi’. Morris ; also that
it was impossible for a confederate to be introduced into the cabinet without
being detected.
Dr. Wesley Clark,
Jno. S. Wright,
Mrs. E. Eveland,
Mr. J. Eveland,
J. W. Garrison,
J. Donnelley,
M. B. Moore,
Mrs. J. Donnelley,
H. L. Austin,
Thos. Jordan,
Mrs. Mary A. Potts,
W. B. Potts,
Dr. B. Atkinson,
J. P. Baker,
Aug. Siefert,
Jacob Eldridge,
Miss C. M. Sharpe,
Dr. W. H. Thomas,
S. W. Peese,
A. M. White.
B. Atkinson.
I also append an account, by Mr. Zenas T. Haines, of the
Boston Herald (June 4th), of some good tests of spirit
action in the paraffin mould manifestations, obtained
in the presence of Mrs. Bennet, of Boston, as the medium.
These proofs are approximating nearer and nearer every day
to what must be regarded as a complete scientific verifica¬
tion of the phenomenon.
MOULDS OF MATERIALISED SPIRIT HANDS.
Some years ago two dear friends of the writer of this died of con¬
sumption. Near the last stage of his illness the older of the two visited
Cuba and the Isle of Pines, in the hope that the mild climate of the
Antilles might bring relief. The other had arranged to make the same
journey, and the writer, who was then in a Southern city, corresponded
with both, with the view of bringing them together in Cuba. But the
sudden death of the younger of his friends prevented the accomplish¬
ment of this purpose, and a few weeks later the other, soon after his
return to his home in Cambridge, also died. But although they failed
to meet in this life, if Spiritualism is true, they have met and joined
hands on the other side, and in token thereof have sent to their common
friend, the writer of this, waxen moulds of their clasped hands. They
came through the instrumentality of the newly developed medium at
the West End. Upon a finger of one of the hands is the impress of a
ring, resembling one presented by the writer to the younger of the
two persons above referred to. The size and shape of this hand, as well
as of its companion, correspond very closely to the writer’s knowledge
of the mortal hands of his two friends. For further identification, the
moulds were taken to Foster, the great test medium, now stopping at
the Parker House, who said they were from the hands of the two friends
in question, unhesitatingly selecting their names from a mass of other
names written upon slips of paper. At a subsequent visit to the West
End medium, a mould of the same hand, with a ring, clasped with a
hand, represented as that of a nearer friend of the writer, was pre¬
sented to him.
To the ordinary observer of this phenomenon, perhaps the strongest
evidence of the supermundane origin of these moulds is the apparent
impossibility of withdrawing two clasped hands of flesh and bone from
a fragile mould of paraffin without shattering it. The artist in Pro¬
vince House Court, who is often called upon to take plaster casts of
these moulds, as well as of masks produced in the same manner, declares
that it would be impossible. Moreover, he says they bear the unmis¬
takable impress of human hands, not of inflated rubber gloves, and are
strongly suggestive to him of the hands of the dead, of which he is
often called upon to take casts.
Meanwhile Mr. Jay J. Hartman, the spirit photographer,
has removed from Cincinnati to Philadelphia (918, Spring
Garden-street), where he has given new evidence of the
genuineness of his powers. You may remember that on
Christmas Hay, 1875, he gave, in the presence of a number
of critical photographers, proofs which were irresistible, of
his peculiar mediumship. May 21st, 1876, he had another
triumph in Cincinnati; some of the most sceptical witnesses,
who had previously opposed his pretensions, signing a card
exonerating him from any suspicion of fraud, and acknow¬
ledging the inexplicable character of the phenomenon of the
photograph claimed as spiritual.
Notwithstanding this manifest progress in the verification of
our phenomena, the old assailants of Spiritualism are as bitter
and dogmatic as ever. A work was published last week in
New York, entitled, Spiritualism and Allied Causes and
Conditions of Nervous Derangement^ ^ Wm. A. Hammond,
M.D. This writer would explain the higher phenomena
simply by denying them. Hallucination on the part of the
witnesses, trickery or self-deception on the part of the
mediums, are the cheap and easy guesses by which he would
make it appear that our facts are chimerical. All that Dr.
Hammond says in opposition has already been said by Dr.
Carpenter, Sir David Brewster, and Faraday. The scientific
value of the book as an explanation of Spiritualism is
beneath criticism. Nothing new or suggestive is offered.
Even among persons claiming to be Spiritualists there
has been a strange reluctance to credit the materialisation
phenomena; but the facts are getting to be a little too
powerful for further resistance. I see that in England they
are also accumulating. The deductions from ttie careful
investigations instituted by Mr. Charles Blackburn, and
corroborated by the testimony of Gully, Crookes, Luxinoore,
Yarley, Coleman, Sexton, and others, are now daily confirmed
by the multiplying manifestations going on in this country.
When will intelligent men of science get rid of the stupid
superstition that these phenomena are explicable by the
theories of fraud and illusion, and manfully go to work to
examine them modestly and fairly ? E. S.
Boston, U.S., June 9th.
The new Spiritualistic book by the Coimtess of Caithness, Old
Truths in a New Light, has been favourably reviewed in the Morning
Post, also in the Evening Standard of last Tuesday.
Reception at Dr. Speer’s.—On the 23rd ult., Dr. Stanhope Temple-
man Speer, M.D., and Mrs. Speer, of Douglas House, St. John’s-wood,
London, gave an evening party to some Spiritualistic and other friends,
including Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs.
Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs. Tebb, Miss Birkett, Miss Kisling-
bury, Miss Katherine Poyntz, Mrs. Percival, The Rev. W. S. Moses,
M.A., Mr. F. W. Percival, Mr. C. C. Massey, Mr. Ivimey, Mr. Fabyan
Dawe, Mr. Vacher, Mr. Wood, Mr. Wedgwood, Mr. W. H. Harrison,
and others. In the course of the evening Mr. Charles Speer, sop of Pi--
Speer, improvised some music of a high-class order, and gave some per¬
formances from well-known masters. Miss Katherine Poyntz also
entertained the company with her superior singing.
318
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 7, 1876.
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES.
BT GEORGE WYLD, M.D.
This evening I was present at a test seance with Miss Lottie |
Fowler at 38, Great Russell-street, London. \>
A lady sewed the medium’s sleeves together behind her 11
back, after which I fastened securely her wrists with tape. . j1
She was then enclosed up to the neck in a calico bag, and I <
the mouth of this bag was closely sewed round her neck. j |
I then tied tape round her neck, fastening one end of the I
tape to the roof of the cabinet, and the other end to the arm j
of the chair she sat in. . j
Under these conditions it was impossible for the hands of | (
the medium to escape from the bag, and it was found that j /
her mouth could not be forced within six inches of the table j i
within the cabinet. | (
The curtains being drawn, the whistle was almost imme- |)
diately loudly blown, and the tambourine and other articles ] i
on the table inside the cabinet were banged about. I (
The musical box was then placed on this table, and I |
placed a piece of paper and a pencil beside it. We heard a |
fumbling at the box, which was then thrown down; we j (
picked it up, and I found my bit of paper and the pencil j \
inside the box, within the outer wooden lid and the inner !
glass lid, and on the paper a quantity of illegible pencil j l
scrawling.
I then placed another marked piece of paper and a pencil |
on the table. This was shortly dropped on the floor, and j (
on examining it we found in large, ill-formed, childlike cha- |
racters, written in pencil, these words, “God Is Goody \)
We were then asked by the medium, one by one, to insert j
our hands within the curtains, and on doing so several present j 5
were touched. I was permitted to grasp two fingers. They I
appeared to be hard, dry, and knotted fingers. I attempted |
with my full strength to retain these fingers, but they were j
forcibly withdrawn, not dissolved, as is said sometimes to be i
the case. i >
It is said that these hands usually have a resemblance to | j
those of the medium. In the present instance it was not j (
so. The fingers I felt were hard and dry, while those of j <
the medium, which I shortly afterwards felt, were soft, and |
wet with hot perspiration. We also saw hands outside the {
curtain five or six times. n
This was the first time I had seen or felt naked hands while i
the medium was confined in a bag. |
The medium was now released from the bag, as she com- i
plained of exhaustion from the heat, which was very great j |
even outside the bag, but her hands remained tied as before, | I
and were further tied to the back of the chair she sat on, j U
but the tying of the back to the cabinet was by an oversight [ j
removed. Hi
The medium became quickly entranced, and in the voice I j
of her Indian spirit asked us, one by one, to look within the j j
cabinet and see the lights. This we did, and saw several Mj
small lights rapidly moving about. We all remarked on a I j
strong smell of phosphorus, which the medium declared '] j
came from her body, remarking that the smell of phosphorus I j
from rubbed matches would remain, while that we now | !
smelt would shortly disappear. This latter fact I found to j j
be the case, but we made no experiments to test the state- j |
ment about matches. ^ I
The medium then declared in the voice of aPinky"’ that I I
Pinky would show herself. This promise was fulfilled about |||
a dozen times. The figure we saw seemed about two or three 1 I
inches taller than the medium. This I concluded by, after i j
the seance, asking the medium to stand in the position the | I
apparition had occupied.
The front of the figure was visible down to about the j j
knees, and the appearance had a shadowy resemblance to the j jj
medium. It showed itself for about two seconds at a time i j
by apparently with both hands withdrawing the two curtains I v|
partially, and in the timid and hesitating manner often | |
characteristic of such appearances. 111
The figure appeared to be clothed, as seems usually j|i
the case, in a winding sheet of gauzy material. The j j
medium, having then in Pinky’s voice said good-night, we nj
withdrew the curtains and iound her tied in her chair, and Hi
in the dazed condition of one awaking from a sleep. |)j
The seance lasted fully two hours, and we sat in a dim III
gaslight. The medium frequently urged us to examine her
position, and the condition of the fastenings. The tyings
remained intact as we had fastened them, and on examining
the bag we found neither tear, slit, nor hole.
The other members of the circle were Mr. J. W. Gray,
Mrs. Michell, Mr. Potts, Mr. John McGlassford, F.C.S.,
Mrs. Robinson, Mrs. Molle, and Captain James, late 90th
Light Infantry.
12, Great Gumbeiiand-piace, Hyde-park, London, July 3, 1876.
WARNED BY A DREAM.
Captain Adam S. Smalley, of West Duxbury, Mass., has
received a handsome and valuable gold chronometer watch
and chain, suitably inscribed, from the British Government,
in recognition of his humanity and kindness in rescuing the
crew of the Sparkenhoe, of Dublin, Nov. 30th, 1875. The
story of the rescue, as told by Captain Smalley, is a singu¬
larly interesting one. Capt. S. sailed from Bordeaux Nov.
24th, 1875, in the brigantine Fred. Eugene, of Portland,
Me., bound for Key West, and soon after leaving port en¬
countered heavy weather. When about six hundred miles
at sea, on the night of Nov. 29th, Capt. Smalley awakened
suddenly from sleep, strongly impressed with a dream, in
which he had seen a number of men in imminent peril, whom
he endeavoured to rescue, but without success. This he
related to his wife at the time, expressing the hope that no
shipwrecked crew stood in need of his services. The im¬
pression passed oif as usual with dreams, and after midnight
he again retired. The vision was now repeated with greater
distinctness, the men appearing on a wreck, and needing
the utmost dispatch to save them from perishing. The
captain went immediately on deck, and on the impulse of
the moment altered the course of the vessel two points with¬
out any apparent reason therefor, and giving orders to be
called at daylight, he again retired, and slept until the
appointed time. Going aloft at dawn, and sweeping the
horizon with his glass, he discovered a ship far to the wind¬
ward, with a signal of distress displayed. He endeavoured
to work his vessel up, but, with short sail and heavy sea, a
large portion of the forenoon passed, and still a long distance
remained. Finally, the captain determined to make a long
tack, and not put his vessel about until some such impulse
as had prompted him to change his course the night before
bade him to do so. More sail was made, although prudence
dictated otherwise, in the face of a gale evidently about to
break, and the vessel stood on that course with all the men
at their stations over an hour for tacking. At last the
prompting came, and going about the vessel reached a point
two miles to the leeward of the distressed ship, where her
three boats, containing twenty-three men in all, were
waiting, having put off to intercept the brig. They were
immediately taken on board, the boats cut loose, sail re¬
duced with the utmost expedition, and in ten minutes more
a fierce hurricane lashed the ocean into foam. For four
days the gale continued without abatement, successively
making it impossible to put into Lisbon and Cadiz, and
ultimately obliging Capt. Smalley to run for Gibraltar,
which place he safely reached, and landed the shipwrecked
seamen.—Banner of Eight (Boston, U.S.).
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Amongst the improvements necessary in the modes of procedure of the
Council of the National Association of Spiritualists, there is none more
urgent than the recording of the names of the voters, and the part they
take in all divisions, for the information of their constituents. At
present their votes are not recorded, unless somebody asks that it shall
be done, and the importance of any division may not always be known
at the time of the meeting. Again, the attendance at Council meetings
is so small that half-a-dozen friends and relatives, by attending and
voting together, might control a meeting, not that we suppose any
members of the Council to he actuated by so low a code of honour to be
capable of thus banding together to unduly influence the proceedings.
If any measures for the good or harm of the Association are passed,
the public have the right to know who passed them, but at present are
debarred from knowing how their representatives act. The recording
of the votes will increase the feeling of responsibility of the members,
and tend to prevent inconsistencies.
Madame Cellini will give a concert at St. George’s Hall next Satur¬
day evening, at 8.30 p.m., under the patronage of H.R.H. the Princess
Christian, H.R.H. the Duchess of Cambridge, and of several well-
known Spiritualists.
July 7, 1876,
THE SEIE1TTJALIST
319
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- OP THE SCIENTIFIC EESEAECH COMMITTEE.
La.st Monday evening a meeting of the Scientific Research Com¬
mittee of the British National Association of Spiritualists, was held at
38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, under the presidency of
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, member of the Society of Telegraph Engi¬
neers. The other members of the committee present were Mr. C. C.
Massey, Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., Mr. W. H. Coffin, Dr. Carter Blake,
Mr. Gray, Mr. E. Dawson-Rogers, the Rev. W. W. Newbould, Mr.
George King, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
The Chairman reported that he had taken action upon the resolution
to ventilate the room in which dark seances were held, by obtaining
estimates. Two shutters could be made, each with three bent zinc tubes
near the top, which would let air out without letting light in, each tube
three inches in diameter. He further proposed that from the bottom of
each shutter one large tube should go to the floor, to permit cold air to
enter the room. The total cost of these shutters would be ^4 10s.
Mr. Massey remarked that as it was a Research Committee, with not
much money in hand, he doubted whether they had the right to expend
funds in ventilation.
Mr. George King said that as the sitters as well as the mediums
influenced the manifestations, any step tending to promote health and
comfort must have some effect upon the results.
Mr. Massey replied that if it were so his objection had been answered;
but he doubted whether the physical condition of the sitters had any
influence. He thought that nearly everything depended upon the
medium, and upon the impressions on the mind of the medium.
Mr. Harrison remarked that he was sure from what he had seen that
certain sitters had an influence upon the manifestations in dark circles,
independently of the thoughts or feelings of the medium. At certain
circles also, when the spirits were giving the ring test with a medium at
one end of the room, it was quite common for a medial person at the
other end of the circle to be violently convulsed at the moment the ring
was put on the arm.
The Chairman said that although the funds in hand were small, they
had been sent in without any application; indeed, he had been sur¬
prised to hear, on coming to the meeting, that they had any finances at
all. He had every reason to believe that when application was made
for money to promote research, the responses would be liberal, for a
feeling was abroad that money could not be better expended than in
that direction.
Two other plans for ventilating the room besides that proposed by
Mr. Fitz-Gerald were then mooted, and on the motion of Mr. Rogers,
seconded by Dr. Carter Blake, it was resolved that Messrs. Coffin,
Gray, and Harrison be appointed a sub-committee to consider the best
method of ventilation to adopt.
It was next resolved to purchase, at a cost of 17s. 6d., an iron bottle
which would hold fifteen gallons of compressed oxygen gas, to be slowly
discharged through a piece of india-rubber tubing into the cabinet
during a seance of two hours’ duration, to promote the health and com¬
fort of the medium. Messrs. Baiff and Co. would charge this bottle
with fifteen gallons of oxygen whenever required for 2s. 6d.
Mr. Harrison then moved: “ That the Council be requested to direct
that all photographs, apparatus, or objects of a scientific nature be sub¬
jected to the examination and approval of the Research Committee,
before they are placed on public view on the premises or at the meet¬
ings of the Association.’’ He said that half-informed people sometimes
sent to the Association, as scientific curiosities, articles which in the
eyes of competent judges were founded on error, or were of no value
whatever; these consequently should be passed under the examination
of some competent persons before they were placed on public view, that
deserved ridicule might be averted.
Mr. Coffin seconded this, and it was carried unanimously.
Dr. Carter Blake stated that at a future meeting he would propose a
trial at seances, as opportunity afforded, of a considerable number of
physiological experiments in connection with mediumship. At recent
seances with Miss Lottie Fowler he had discovered that her pulse was
in its normal state throughout the whole sitting; it was slightly lower
at the end than at the beginning.
It was then announced that Mr. Blackburn had placed the last four
of his seances, with Miss Fowler as medium, at the disposal of the
Research Committee. A resolution was accordingly passed, that next
Friday (to-day) a stance should be held with Miss Fowler, and that
the spirits should be asked if they could ring an electrical bell, by
bringing down a lever arm to complete the circuit, while the said arm
was enclosed in a sealed and properly secured box.
The proceedings then closed.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists
will hold its usual monthly session on Tuesday next, the llth inst.,
at 6.30 p.m.
Miss Hareiet Maetineau passed to the higher life a few days ago
She realised and made great use of mesmerism during the last twenty
years of her life, but did not admit the truths of Spiritualism, nor did
she so fully inquire into the latter subject as her literary friend, Mr. H.
G. Atkinson.
Juvenile Education.—Mrs. "Weldon, who has given so much per¬
sonal attention to the education of very young children, says that if
they are taken in hand at an exceedingly early age, hereditary charac¬
teristics of an objectionable nature can be almost, if not completely,
eradicated, and that education in schools begins too late, moreover, is
not always of the right kind. If she can prove these points by prac¬
tical illustrations, they will be of interest in relation to the question of
the education of the children of Spiritualists.
-——r
SPIRITUALISM IN LIVERPOOL.
I At the services at Meyerbeer Hall, Liverpool, last Sunday, Dr.
Hitchman delivered the afternoon lecture, and Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy
| that of the evening.
i Dr. Hitchman took for his subject, M The Unseen Universe Vindicated
I by Scripture and Science,” in the delivery of which he sought to point out
| that Spiritualism was really the keystone of the top, middle, or base of
i every theological arch in the world’s history. Scepticism as to the
; reality of a spiritual body and a spiritual universe, he affirmed, did not
exist in the minds of those philosophers who had investigated the
) matter scientifically. He gave numerous illustrations in corroboration
| of these statements. He also showed that the best preparation for the
I coming life was the highest form of moral and mental culture in the
| present.
|| Mrs. Nosworthy pursued the subject of her previous lectures, and in
II quotations from teachings through the mediumship of “ M. A. (Oxon),”
ij and others, she strove to disperse an erroneous impression that the
[j gospel of Spiritualism holds out but little fear of punishment to wrong-
11 doers; on the contrary, she set forth the important fact that sin carries
[ j with it its own punishment, both here and hereafter, and can by no
j i means be wiped out save by a severe discipline of remorse, repentance,
i and suffering. After a gloomy picture of the dark spirit spheres, and
| the despair experienced therein by the wilfully wicked, she changed the
I scene, and showed the happiness awaiting the humble, earnest seeker
1 after virtue, and the faithful servant of truth.
i( Me. Algernon Joy, who is now at Chamouni, will return to London
|)| about the 15th of this month, and in the mean time may be addressed
! 1 j at the Hotel des l)eux Mondes, Paris.
||| The funds of the British National Association of Spiritualists have
|)| been much benefited during the past year by the sale of some of the
j(| musical boxes which were placed at its disposal by one of its
i i members for that purp ose. Several first-class boxes still remain to be
i|l disposed of.
I | A Garden Party at Iselipps Manor.—On Wednesday, last week, Mr.
!|i George Harris, F.S.A., and Mrs. Harris gave their annual garden party
|vi to various friends connected with the Anthropological, Psychological,
|| 1 Spiritual and other societies devoted to the study of man. Mr. and
||j Mrs. Harris received their guests at Iselipps Manor, Northolt, near
II i Southall, and a cold collation was served upon the lawn, beneath the
11! shade of a magnificent walnut tree. Afterwards several brief speeches
II i were made.—Mr. Gannendro Mohun Tagore, a Brahminical member of
j| the Psychological Society, remarked that nothing was more objection-
j)| able to the Oriental mind than the idea of a female sovereign, conse-
I quently the recent visit of the Prince of Wales to India was exactly
I i what was required to meet Eastern ideas.—Dr. B. W. Richardson,
F.R.S., responding to the toast of “The Royal Society,” said that that
| (i society represented the intellect of the world, and he hoped soon to see
i | i Mr. Harris enrolled as one of its members; he added that Mr. Harris
j)| had just given to the world two valuable volumes, which were now in
|(| the hands of many men of intelligence, and were read by scholars of a
i I i high tone of mind. He had looked through them himself, and thought
i I that they were volumes which would live, because of the scrupulous
j 11 absence of bias with which Mr. Harris had set forth the ideas of various
j | j great men on different points connected with the study of man.—After a
j | few remarks from Mr. Moggridge, of Swansea, the Secretary to the
| | Royal Historical Society rose and said that that organisation ought to
III flourish in the future if the proverb of Solomon might be believed—
1)| “ Spare the rod and spoil the child,” for he could answer for it that the
i(! Historical Society had had plenty of the rod.—Mr. Percival returned
1) | thanks on behalf of the Psychological Society, saying that he saw many
| j around him who dealt with the study of the body, but the Psychological
j i Society dealt with the soul, the governing power of the body; he there-
| | fore thought that its importance must be acknowledged; the soul, unlike
l|l the body, could not be buried or cremated.—Mr. George Cruikshank
||| responded to the toast of “Art and Artists.” He believed art to
i) | be at the top of the tree—above science and everything else. In-
|H deed, he and his brother artists were confirmed in the belief that
i 11 there was nothing like art and artfulness. What an appreciation
jii of art was displayed by the unknown man who so strongly admired the
|) picture of the Duchess of Devonshire, and who could deny that in
j 11 carrying off the prize he displayed the highest type of artfulness ?—Mr.
i |! Harris opined that art and artfulness of the kind just described, were
j) i not so high as to dispense with the aid of magistrates. (Laughter.) He
111 had much pleasure, therefore, in calling upon Mr. Flowers, of Bow-
I) | street, to reply on behalf of the magistracy; however unpleasant it
|)| might be to be brought before him, those assembled were very pleased
|( to see Mr. Flowers brought before them, and, as it was the first time,
111 circumstances were rather in his favour.—Mr. Flowers responded, after
ij| which Mr. Harris proposed the “Bar,” to which Mr. Harrington re-
| | plied, after which Mr. Harris proposed the “ Medical Profession,” re-
| | marking that there were no doctors in the village of Northolt, conse-
| | quently the dwellers therein lived to an enormous age.—Dr. Richardson
11 i thought that the circumstance that there were fewer doctors where the
! 11 people lived longer lives, was due to the circumstance that the doctors
||l were not wanted in those localities. In Norway and Sweden, where
11 j populations of ten or fifteen thousand could be found without a medical
! (I man, the length of life was very great; but that did not prove that
11 j mortality was due to physic; it meant merely that the places were healthy
T| I and doctors not wanted. The close packing of human beings in towns
I (i was one of the chief causes of disease.—Mr. Tagore proposed the health of
lj| Mrs. Harris, which was responded to with acclamation, after which the
\{ j friends broke up into small parties, and wandered over the house and
fl grounds, surveying their many attractions.
320
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 7,1876.
SPIRITUALISM IN FLORENCE.*
The recently formed Pneumatological Society of Florence,
of which Baron Michele Guitera de Bozzi is President, has
devoted two of its sessions to the consideration of the report
of the St. Petersburg University. A commission consisting of
six of the most active members was appointed to draw up a
reply to the Russian ultimatum. It commences with the
saying of the Hindoo Narada, that it is necessary to learn in
order to know, to know before understanding, and to under¬
stand before judging, then the authors give an elaborate
defence of the Petty Brothers, against whom accusations
have been made.
The Italian critics assert that the Russian Commission
refused to allow the conditions on which the medium insisted
of darkness, or partial light, and a certain distance between
the medium and the circle. These conditions being rejected,
no phenomena took place. At the sitting of Nov. 20th a cur¬
tain near the medium was torn near the handbell which was
to have been rung. It is not, however, ascertained who tore
this curtain, and there is no ground to infer that the mediums
were the culprits. Mrs. C., the non-professional medium,
who sat for the sake of advancing Spiritualism, is accused of
having been in a position where she could have moved the
table with her feet, but the commission has made no formal
charge against her in this respect, at the same time that it
states that the elevation (!) of the table was produced by her
hands. The Russian Commission does not state how this
extraordinary mechanical feat was performed. The report of
the Italian critics further states that Mr. Charles Darwin is
a Spiritualist, of which we were not previously aware, but
which, if true, will afford Spiritualists much pleasure. The
opinions of the Italian report were at once adopted by the
society, and the resolution was carried u That the conclusions
of the St. Petersburg Commission are unacceptable and
irrational ” giving as grounds that they were not arrived at
after careful experiment; they were influenced by precon¬
ceived ideas; they were given by persons who were
unacquainted with Spiritual phenomena, and who were
indiscreet and offensive to the medium.
We shall be glad to have further information as to the
progress of this little Florentine Society. The writers
appear to be careful reasoners, and expert controversialists.
It is pleasing to see that the conclusions of Professors
Aksakof and Butlerof have been supported by the scientific
Spiritualists of Italy.
SPIRITUALISM IN DALSTON.
A narration of the experiences of members of the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism, and other investigators, took place on
Thursday evening, the 29th ultimo, under the presidency of Mr. Or. R.
Tapp, at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston,
London.
The hon. secretary reported the receipt of a letter from Mrs. Bassett,
intimating that, in consequence of Mr. Bassett’s illness, he was pre¬
vented from submitting his promised paper to the meeting. A letter
was also read from Mr. William Oxley, with reference to some of his
recent experiences, particulars of which have been contributed to The
Spiritualist newspaper, and pointing out certain questions for considera¬
tion by his fellow-members.
Messrs. Arthur Vaughan and Edwin Dottridge said that they had
respectively been troubled with the unpleasant influence of the spirit of
an uncongenial “ old woman,” and that it had passed, apparently, from
one to the other, and, eventually, to a lady friend, whose health had
suffered, presumably, from sitting at seances.
Mr. Tapp observed that the effects of seances upon sitters was a fruit¬
ful subject for consideration, but that, in his opinion, a great deal was
wrongly attributed to Spiritualism.
Mr. John Rouse gave some interesting particulars of some open-air
experiments he had been engaged in for two or three years past. He
said that on a hot, sultry summer’s day, when the air was calm, distinct
rappings had been obtainable by him, on holding a silk umbrella over
his head, and that he had held intercourse with his spirit friends in that
manner in the bright sunlight. The spirits said that the umbrella
served the purpose of concentrating the emanations rising from his body,
the silk preventing their escape in an upward direction; but that, unless
the surrounding atmosphere was perfectly calm, they were unable to
control the emanations sufficiently to manifest in this way.
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen inquired whether any one besides Mr.
Rouse had heard the rappings upon the umbrella, and, if so, whether
they were clairaudient ?
Mr. Rouse, in reply, said that various members of his family had
* Sunto del vei-bale delfe due sedate dell'Accadeinia pneumatologica Fiorentina,
4th and 7th May, 1876.
)
<
)
■
)
\
heard the rappings to which he had referred, and that they were not
clairaudient to his knowledge.
Mr. Tapp said that the experiments in question were of a novel and
interesting nature, and hoped Mr. Rouse would extend his operations,
so as to ascertain whether any other fabric than silk would answer the
purpose. He added that once, while sitting on a tombstone in the
country with a powerful medium, rappings were obtained in reply to
questions, and remarked that on the occasion he recollected that the
atmosphere was warm and very calm.
Mr. T. Blyton called attention to some recently published experi¬
ments by Dr. Crowell, as to the effect of silk coverings in protecting
sensitives from spirit influence, and thought that Mr. Rouse’s observa¬
tions had some bearing thereon.
Mr. Rouse considered that, in the case of Mr. Tapp’s open-air expe¬
rience, the fact of the manifestations of the medium being of a powerful
physical character afforded an opportunity for the spirits to manifest
without an umbrella; further, the atmospherical conditions were like¬
wise good. In respect to Mr. Blyton’s remarks, he was of opinion that
the experiments tended to corroborate the idea of silk being a non-con¬
ductor of the force used by the spirits, as, in his experiments, he had
always used a silk umbrella.
In reply to a question, Mr. Rouse stated that the decease of an indi¬
vidual, announced through his mediumship at the meeting of 15th ult.,
and reported in The Spiritualist of 30 th ult., had, upon inquiry, proved
to be true.
Mr. T. C. Bachfolde, a visitor from Switzerland, narrated an instance
of the appearance of a spirit to a relative at the time of its departure
from earth-life.
Various questions were asked by Mr. V. Earle and Mr. W. C. Storey,
visitors, to which the chairman replied.
On the motion of Mr. John C. McGlassford, F.C.S., seconded
by Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, a vote of thanks was awarded to the
chairman for presiding.
MEDIUMSHIP EXHIBITED AS CONJURING.
As a too general rule no very high principles distinguish the words
and deeds of those spirits who possess most power over common matter,
and who produce the most wonderful physical manifestations; they will
sometimes help their mediums in imposture, by mixing some of their
own extraordinary manifestations with earthly tricks—if, indeed, the
mediums are not so far their slaves, that they are responsible for both.
They will also help those scoundrels of mediums, who set up as con¬
jurors because that line of action pays best. A Mr. Bishop has been
imitating Mrs. Fay’s manifestations in America, and Mr. Theodore R.
Noyes, M.D., of 320, East Fifty-fifth-street, New York, in the course of
a letter in the New York Daily Graphic of June 19th, points out that
Mr. Crookes’ electrical experiments demonstrated the reality of the
materialisations in her case, independently altogether of any trust in
the medium. He then adds:—
“ Mr. Crookes and other scientific Spiritualists, whatever may be their
opinion as to the causes of these phenomena—Mr. Crookes has given
none—generally confine the conclusion they have drawn from such
seances as the above to the narrow limit of belief in the duplication or
multiplication of the human form under peculiar conditions. They are
convinced that under circumstances admitting of no mistake one human
form, with its dress, has become for a short time two. Whether this is
a separation of the medium into two forms appertaining to the medium
only—a physical and a spiritual body—or whether it is the temporary
appearance of a distinct, spiritual being by the assistance of the medium,
they have not attempted to decide.
“Accompanying the above conclusion is another, which rests on
similar evidence : that while this duplication is taking place one or the
other of these bodies displays an independence of the ordinary laws
governing matter, doubtless by the supervention of deeper laws, which, if
it does not directly demonstrate the existence of supersensuous intelli¬
gent beings, at least shows abysses in the constitution of what we call
matter which give ample scope for the wildest flights of the ideal
philosopher.
“ To return to Mr. Bishop. Scientific men work by proof, and when
this is impossible, by showing the balance of probabilities. Spiritual¬
ists like Mr. Crookes have drawn conclusions from what in any other
matter the world would acknowledge to be proof. It is only fair that
men like Mr. Bishop should be required to controvert by proof of equal
weight. But though most of his audience seem to have been convinced
in advance by his mere announcements, his whole performance barely
rises to the level of showing a probability that mediums sometimes
resort to fraud. And from the Spiritualistic point of view his own
expose is equally open to the probability that it may be a fraud.
Nothing whatever is proved. He does not bring forward a single fact
to controvert the position of Spiritualists. For, granting, for the sake
of argument, that Mr. Crookes is right, and supposing that Mr. Bishop
is one of those persons gifted with the capacity for undergoing the
process of duplication, there is nothing whatever in his expose incon¬
sistent with the theory that his highly respectable audience really
assisted at a genuine mediumistic performance, and we have simply Mr.
Bishop’s word that he was playing tricks. That he should give us his
word is nothing strange when it makes the difference between an audi¬
ence of twenty or thirty obscure persons in a back street, and one of a
thousand in the Brooklyn Academy of Music, with ex-Mayors and
M.D.’s on the stage. Any one who noted with what nervousness of
manner he exacted the last tittle of the conditions demanded by mediums
when such precautions were entirely unnecessary for the success of the
expose, has good ground for the suspicion that, like his fellow exposer
Baldwin, he is a medium plying a more profitable trade. Baldwin, by
the way, is more practised than Mr. Bishop, and much too adroit in
THE SPIRITUALIST.
321
July 7, 1876.
dodging the explanation at the end to get off on the flimsy excuse of
fatigue.
“ But, even if Mr. Bishop is not a fraud, I think it a shame that the
position of so sincere and truth-loving a student of nature’s laws as Mr.
Crookes should be misrepresented before an audience like that at the
Brooklyn Academy of Music, on Thursday evening.”
(Kumsponumce.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers."]
DK. LOPEZ AND THE DAVENPOETS.
Sie,—It seems to me very late in the day to occupy your columns by
giving prominence to the opinions of Spanish doctors or any other
sceptics who ignore the well-attested history of spiritual manifestations.
The opposition which the Davenport Brothers met with in this
country a few years ago—which was stimulated by the bitter hostility
of a rival medium who refused to witness their exhibition, but loudly
condemned them as impostors—brought out in the controversy which
ensued every suggestion to account for the facts which excited the public
mind ; and I, to whom they gave their first private sitting, being satisfied
of the reality of their mediumship, arranged for their first seances in
London, before twenty gentlemen of the Stock Exchange, who each paid
a guinea, and I ultimately had the satisfaction of knowing that the
majority of unbiassed observers, aided by a committee of well-known
public men whose names and opinions are upon record, came to the
conclusion that though they could not account for the facts they wit¬
nessed, they were certain that the Davenports were not impostors, and
that the phenomena were not produced by jugglery. Dr. Garcia Lopez’s
opinions and explanations, therefore, you will see, are really not worth
the space you have given to them. But it is not for the purpose of
replying to long-exploded theories that I now write, but to suggest to
those who conduct Mr. Blackburn’s seances, given at the Rooms of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, an easy way, not appa¬
rently thought of, of binding the medium’s hands.
The Davenports, who were accustomed to exhibit to very large audi¬
ences, found by experience that it was useless attempting to satisfy the
crotchets of the clever fellows who were always present, and, therefore,
by the advice of their invisible companion and counseller, John King, by
whose opinion they were guided on all emergencies, they resolved to go
through their programme in their own way, and leave objectors to
account for the very extraordinary phenomena witnessed in any way
they pleased.
On one occasion, at a private seance of my own friends, the Daven¬
ports readily assented to my binding them with any material I pleased,
and forthwith I produced a piece of soft copper wire, which is most
easily twisted around the wrists without giving pain, and from which
there is no possibility of slipping the medium’s hands, or replacing them
in an instant of time, as the conjurors assert (though I believe erro¬
neously) is done with rope-tying.
This method of fastening the Davenport Brothers made no difference
in their manifestations, and as tests with tape or rope-tying are made, I
see, a part of each exhibition at the British National Association of
Spiritualists, it is to suggest this simple mode of uniting the wrists by
soft-metal wire that I have thought it worth while to trespass upon your
space. Benjamin Coleman.
Upper Norwood, July 3, 1870.
“ ART MAGIC.”
Sir,—I was sorry to read Mr. Theobald’s letter on the book Art Magic.
I shall not be accused of devoting myself solely to “ mediaeval absurdi¬
ties,” or of undervaluing the gospel of “ the Christ that is to be,” now
in process of revelation. I value that revelation as highly as man can.
I would receive it with thankfulness, and welcome it as God’s gift to
man at a time when he sorely needs more light. But before I can so
receive what professes to be Divine Truth, I must be allowed to submit
it to the standard of reason which the same God has furnished me with.
I can accept no revelation which does not come to me with fuller know¬
ledge than the last, and which does not satisfy the deeper cravings of
my nature. If it satisfy these conditions, then I further hold myself
not only justified, but bound to seek into the means by which it is trans¬
mitted to me : to study the methods, tabulate the conditions, and, above
all, to search out the character of the invisible communicators. And if
in this search I meet with contradictions, absurdities, falsities, frauds,
I further hold myself bound to do my best to explain how the Divine
and the devilish come to be so mixed up. I must try and find out
whether, perchance, there may not be <l evil mingled with the good ” in
spirit-land as here. And to do this I must seek out the means of com¬
munion, and enable myself to ‘‘discern spirits,” so as at least to know
somewhat of the methods by which I may possibly be deceived.
And if I can add to my knowledge on this all-important point, by
raking about among any rubble, or poking into any medimval or modern
stores of knowledge, professedly so called, I will risk the absurdities in
the hope of finding the small grain of truth. Why should I imagine
that the present age has a monopoly of spiritual wisdom ? Why refuse
to avail myself of the garnered knowledge of the past ? The same
reason which aids me to sift the communications of the present, will
avail to reject the absurdities of the past: and the very scanty know¬
ledge I have as yet attained, not by “ glancing through ’’ a book or
books, but by laborious and patient study, inclines me to say that the
absurdities are not so numerous as your correspondent would lead us to
believe. The eye frequently finds what it brings, and a hasty glance
sees, an absurdity where patient study discovers truth. Surely no source
of possible information should be neglected, least of all those records
which have been left by men who had far more spiritual love than we
have; and who, if they did write absurdities, and seem to deal in mys¬
teries that perplex their readers, had laboured long and earnestly to
find the truth, and who, at any rate, were not content, as many are
nowadays, to investigate profoundest mysteries on the principle of the
infantile game, “ Open your mouth, and shut your eyes, and see what
God will send you.” M. A. (Oxon.)
j Sir,—Mr. Morell Theobald, according to his letter in a recent number
of your journal, has “glanced through” Art Magic, and on the strength
| of that glance has utterly condemned the book. I would recommend
] him to read it—to read it through—and he then may find his opinion
| considerably modified. The book is a most valuable one. It has some
undeniable faults of style and grammar, but these are evidently mainly
i due to the haste in which it was written, and are the faults of the editor,
| not of the author, who is not of English extraction. It is a valuable
| epitome of the history of religious, Spiritualistic, and magical kuow-
|i ledge and belief, from the earliest historic times to the present day.
| “ Mediaeval absurdities ” form but a small portion of the work, though
11 an important one ; and Mr. Theobald should be reminded that many
j things appear absurdities to a limited mental perception, and that there
11 is just a possibility of his standing in the same position with reference to
[i the more occult forces as the ordinary outsider does to ordinary Spirit-
,1 ualism.
h But Mr. Theobald’s real objection to the work is apparently due to
[ | the fact that it does not come under that much misused designation,
)l “ orthodox.” Those who prefer wearing blinkers to confine their vision
>| to their own chosen line of progress are welcome to do so, but they would
11 do well not to seek to disparage others who wish to survey and to study
| the whole circle of nature. Again, a Christ of “nineteen hundred
I centuries,” being a new discovery, can scarcely be regarded as strictly
I orthodox,—while the great majority of readers of Art Magic will
i doubtless hold that, before Christ was, I Am. Lux.
| Brighton, June 5th, 1876.
THE COLEMAN TESTIMONIAL.
Sir,—The subscription “ A Friend, £50,” has been struck out of the
list, at the request of the subscriber, because, being no Spiritualist, he
does not sympathise with Mr. Coleman’s labours in connection with
Spiritualism, and did not subscribe to a testimonial on that account, but
on account of his noble and disinterested exposure and punishment, at
his own sole risk, of the frauds connected with the West Hartlepool
Dock and Railway Company, some years ago. He has, however, paid
the ,£50 to Mr. Coleman, through the committee, but insists that it
shall not be published in connection with a. Spiritual testimonial.
A. Joy, Hon. Sec,
)f MR. EGLINTON IN THE WEST OF ENGLAND AND SOUTH WALES.
i Sir,—Will you kindly announce in next week’s Spiritualist that I
/| shall be in Plymouth next week, and Wales a week or two after?
(| Friends desirous of engaging me in surrounding towns should address to
|| me, care of Mr. Yincent Bird, the Market, Devonport, Plymouth.
?! Willie Egltnton.'
(I Timberscombe, Somersetshire.
(| SPIRITUALISM IN HUNGARY.
Sir,—Your article in The Spiritualist of June 9th, 1876, headed,
I “Spiritualism in Germany,” mentions a “reincarnation school” of
|| Spiritualism in Austria as distinct from Spiritualism in Germany.
| i Allow me to assure you that no Spiritualist in Austro-Hungary ever had
(i the desire to form a school, be it in support of Spiritualism or of re*
II incarnation.
/| Since 1853, when table moving was introduced into our country, and
( people began to recognise invisible intelligences as the cause of it, a
11 considerable number of families and individuals zealously took up the
) inquiry in almost all the larger centres of the empire, but without
11 gathering into a public association. Societies were first formed as late
|| as 1865 in Vienna, and 1872 at Pesth.
)| Reincarnation may have been revealed in India thousands of cen-
(| turies ago, as it was declared to myself in 1840 and 1851 by two
|! patients under mesmeric treatment, who, in their visionary state, quite
)! spontaneously made positive and analogous statements about anterior
(i existences, of which, up to that time, I had not even dreamed. These
| i statements were duly recorded. Since 1853 several mediums have been
controlled to confirm the two messages. My acquaintances among
(| Spiritualists in Austro-Hungary, Switzerland, Italy,and France increased
| the number of observations. Allan Kardec’s Revue Spirite was handed
(! to me about the year 1865, when I first read the word “ reincarnation.”
11 My investigations were continued seriously, and perfect conviction was
|| the result.
(j Very far from forcing upon anybody, what to myself is a most valu-
|| able truth, not a single word shall be lost on my part in the attempt to
|: convince others. Each has to strive for himself, to increase the amount
(i of his knowledge and the ennoblement of his mind. We should con-
|i fess, not convert. Unless we have attained a certain degree of mental
|i maturity, unless we have forgotten and unlearned very much, have
l\ emancipated ourselves from authority, dogmas, and infantile traditions,
|! our spirit is inaccessible to many revelations about Psyche, her origin,
| >j pilgrimage, metamorphoses, and her sublime destination. My fellow
j (j Spiritualists should remember how obstinately they fought against facts
j |! proving the reality of our personal existence after earth-life, and the
ijj blessed certainty of constant intercourse with our deceased dear ones.
j(j To my own mind these objectively are ever present, and I am always
i ; ready to undergo a new apprenticeship.
1 (i Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld’s letter to Mr.Aksakof cannot be answered,
32$
THE SPIRITUALIST.
JtLY 7, 1876.
for w^int of the same rudeness that ought to he employed in duly refuting
it. Never more should a Spiritualist periodical be dishonoured by
similar invectives and animosity. Spiritualism will never be endangered
by anything more than by the unspirituality of its disciples.
A. E. Nehrer.
Epei’jes, Hungary, June 25th, 1876.
THE “FIVE MINUTES’ RESOLUTION.”
Sir,—I am distressed to find myself helplessly occupying the vortex
of the storm in a teacup which rages in your columns round my devoted
head, and that of my still more helpless co-victim, the secretary of the
Association of Spiritualists. I think that much has been published
which was neither wise in itself, nor necessary to publish, and the pub¬
lication of which is calculated to do the Association in particular, and
the cause of Spiritualism in general, rather harm than good. I know
that some things which have been said are absolutely incorrect, and
others more or less exaggerated. And, since my letter of the 19th June,''
I have received information which has not appeared in your paper,
some of which I believe you to be ignorant of, and which gives a different
aspect to part of the question. I, therefore, feel bound to say, that I
have good reason to believe that both the mover and seconder of the
proposition to “ dispense with the luxury of an honorary secretary ” did
so in perfect good faith, and, at least, believed themselves to be actuated
by no other reasons than :—1st, that the office was useless and unneces¬
sary; 2nd, that it was desirable that there should be no division of
responsibility; and 3rd, that I had used for party purposes knowledge
which I had acquired officially as honorary secretary. I also believe
that this last reason was suppressed at the Council meeting, by both
proposer and seconder, solely to avoid personality and contention. If I
am correctly informed, Mr. Martin Smith, one of my warmest supporters,
was the first to allude to my being considered by some to be too much of
a partisan for the office in question.
In addition, I must beg to deprecate the larger part of the compli¬
ments which have been so kindly and liberally showered on me, both
by you, sir, and by Mr. Carter Blake ; and which, so far as they are
unfounded or exaggerated, can only be oppressive, however flattering
and kindly meant. For instance, I have literally done no “ work for the
Association ” in France or Germany, and none deserving of the name
in either California Or Switzerland; and the only living foreign language
in which I can sustain a conversation, or write a letter, is French.
In conclusion, sir, allow me to express my deep regret that, so far as
this question affects me personally, so much has been published.
A. Joy.
Lausanne, Switzerland, 2nd July, 1876.
THE EDUCATION OF THE CHILDREN OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—There are some points in Mr. Binney’s letter on the above
subject on which I should like to offer a few remarks.
First, as to mixed education—boys and girls together. This is an
experiment which I most earnestly hope to see tried before long in j
English schools, though public opinion is hardly ripe for it at present, j
There are in reality but few years during which boys and girls are j
separated, and this the boarding-school system makes almost unavoid¬
able.- In Kindergartens, of which there are yet far too few in this |
country, and in our Board schools, girls and boys are taught together.
The Working Men’s College in Great Ormond-street, London, has j
developed into a college for men and women, and Cambridge has now ]
its Girton and Merton, both colleges devoted to women. At present
these have their classes and lectures apart, but at the Berne and
Zurich Universities men and women are admitted to the same classes,
and are allowed to compete for the same degrees. If they are fit com¬
pany for each other in hours of idleness, and in the ordinary work of
life, why not in hours of study ? I do not know, and cannot imagine,
one single, sensible argument against the practice of their combined |
study.*
So far I go with Mr. Binney. On the question of the value of
classical studies I differ from him. Greatly as I desire to see the study
of physical science more largely introduced into our schools, it cannot
take the place of classics as a means of mental training.
Looking upon education as a means rather than an end, I find that i
all those who have given much time or thought to the subject, agree
that there is no study which has as yet been found of equal value with
Latin and Greek as a training power for the intellect. The mistake has
been that that which should precede it—a knowledge of modern lan¬
guages—has been comparatively crowded out in the great press of work
which boys.are expected to get through in the very few years of public
school life. All boys and girls should, as a matter of course, be taught
to read and write French and German as soon, and in the same
manner, as they are taught to read and write English, and only proceed
to the study of grammar after they have a considerable acquaintance
with the languages themselves, when it becomes a comparatively easy
task. But after the age of ten years, where is the study that offers the
same scope for careful analysis, for comparison of ever-varying forms,
and for cultivation of style, as the Latin and Greek languages, inde¬
pendently of the rich field they open to the lover of literature, and the
facility they afford for acquiring other European and even Oriental i
tongues ? So far from wishing boys to give them up, it is my desire to
see all girls share in the advantages of this knowledge, especially i
where they show an aptitude for literature. I consider that the girl
who has not been taught Latin has suffered a wrong. With all due re- |
spectto the Women’s Suffrage Society, I would a thousand times rather
know Latin than have a vote.
What I hold to be wrong in the present school system in this respect, j
is the want of objective teaching; the plan of beginning with abstract j
* In the art schools at University College and South Kensington, students
of both sexes work together, both at antiques and in the life class.
rules and classifications, instead of first learning to read, write, and
speak the language as we learn our mother tongue.
In advocating the introduction of physical science into the school
curriculum, my idea is that it should be added to other studies which
now occupytoo exclusively the time and attention of boys ; in too many
instances, I fear, time without attention. But botany, chemistry, and
physiology, in order to be made fruitful studies, must be accompanied
by experiments and researches, and among boys and girls below a
certain age this can of necessity only be very limited, and not often
original. Botany I look upon as a most valuable study where children
have access to the country, and can collect their own specimens. I
know children of six years old who can tell you at a glance whether
leaves are lanceolate, heart-shaped, or pinnatifid, or whether their mar¬
gins are serrate or dentate; at that early age the observing powers of a
healthy child are acute, and may be easily cultivated by the study of
natural objects, whereas they are generally fixed on books, and in time
become blunted to outside observation. The head master of a depart¬
ment of one of our greatest public schools, on the other hand, once
asked me, when walking in the New Forest, what holly-berries were
like before they were red.
But, as I said in my former letter, there is a great reform going on in
all these matters. A chair of education for teaching teachers the art,
science and history of the subject, has lately been founded at the
College of Preceptors, where it was most ably filled for a time by the
late Mr. Joseph Paine. Since then a similar post has been created at
the Glasgow University, to which Professor Meiklejohn, well-known in
the educational world as a successful teacher, has been appointed.
To Spiritualists, then, I would say, do not seek denominational
exclusiveness, but go in with the van of educational reformers; support
and profit by the work of Mrs. William Grey, Miss Shirreff, the Kinder¬
garten Association, and the Girls’ Public Day Schools’ Company. Dis¬
courage and avoid all dilettanti teaching, all “seminaries for young
ladies and young gentlemen,” and seek for your children the best public
instruction of the day. Fit them to be able workers in some of the
world’s many fields of usefulness; to be foremost in reforms; to lead the
thought of their age, and to give it a right direction. To do this they
must have knowledge, which is, more than ever it was, power; they
must be equipped cap-d-pie with armour as bright, new, and invulner¬
able as that of their adversaries ; but they will only attain to this by
sharing in the best experience of their contemporaries, and in all the
advantages of physical development and intellectual training afforded
by the more advanced of our public educational establishments.
Emily Kislingbury.
38, Great Russell-street, London.
THE DOCTRINE OF ETERNAL PROGRESSION VCTSUS THE DOCTRINE OF
INSTANTANEOUS BEATIFICATION.
Sir,—William Fish, the barber, convicted of the Blackburn murder,
wrote as follows to his wife:—
I write these lines hoping they will find yon in good health as I am at
present. I feel my place very much. It is too late to pull things back, but
God is merciful, and will forgive us our sins if we only ask—“ Ask, and it
shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and the door shall be
opened to you.” There is pardon for the worst of sinners, and I am one, and
may God forgive me. I have broken the law of the land, and committed the
worst crimes, but God is merciful and will forgive me. Give my kind love to
all. No more at present. William Fish.
We see here a man belonging to the Church of England, after com¬
mitting the most heinous double crime, expecting that in asking God for
forgiveness he shall be absolved. We have often heard Protestants
sneer at the Roman Catholics on account of their belief that repentance
at the moment of death will make atonement for any crime committed,
but in the present case it seems that the teaching of the Protestant and
Romish churches is identical. This teaching is demoralising, for it
offers a cheap escape from the consequences of evil doing. The Anglican,
equally with the Catholic priest, says in effect to the criminal—“ My
son, confess your wickedness, and you shall have absolution.” This
scene is repeated, as is well known, previous to every execution; and
each time it deepens the impression on the popular mind. Although
not broadly stated, the inference is drawn consciously, or unconsciously,
by all orthodox people throughout the land that, live as they will, when
it at last comes to the push the minister can be called in, who will keep
off the fiend waiting to claim them for his own, will vanquish for them
all the powers of darkness, will draw back their frightened souls from
the pit of eternal torment, and open to their ravished sight the joys of
heaven. Let it be considered what an influence this conviction must of
necessity have on the life conduct of a whole people. Human nature is
prone to self-indulgence; and how many men will not yield to the
seductions of evil as long as they have the assurance, given as they
deem by the highest authority, that they may neglect every duty, enjoy
every sensual, worldly, and ambitious gratification—nay, commit every
crime, with complete impunity—provided they make sure (as they in
general take good care to do) of the last offices of the Church.
But not only is this teaching demoralising; it is false, and false to
the very Book from which it is professedly drawn. It assumes that
the criminal is saved by repentance through faith. This is justification
by faith of a kind, however, not contemplated by the Apostolic writers,
and herein the Church is clearly convicted of inconsistency with its own
authorities. These assure us that “ faith without works is dead.” If
this be true, and nothing can be more reasonable, observe what follows.
The convicted murderer, though he be repentant, though he have con¬
fessed, and though, under the counsel and assurance of his spiritual
adviser, he die believing, yet he is not “ saved,” for he has no “ works ”
corresponding. What good deeds has he to set off against the evil
tenor of his life—especially of that last act for which he suffers the
penalty of the law ? This penalty satisfies his human judges only;
there still remains satisfaction due to a Higher Court, and that satisfac-
July 7, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST
323
tion demands “works.’’ It necessarily follows that these works, not ||
having been performed in this world (through the forcible and abrupt | <
termination of the man’s life), must be performed in the next—or he is j)
“ lost ” to all eternity. This conclusion agrees with the views of Spirit- |)
ualists on the same subject, based on information from spiritual sources; | j
and I would here remark that this is not the only point on which the i
clergy fail to comprehend their own Scriptures, and that unless they i
speedily (to use one of their expressions) “shake off dull sloth,” ||
and enter on an investigation both more profound and more truly ji
spiritual, they will be indebted to Spiritualists for a key to unlock many j
a mystery that has been a puzzle for centuries. j
In contradistinction to the doctrine ignorantly taught by the orthodox, |
how much more rational and edifying are the teachings imparted by the !
spirit-world, viz., that we must make full reparation for all the evil done I
on earth, not by repentance alone, but that good actions, either here or j
hereafter, must outnumber and outweigh the evil deeds committed in this |
life, and that until this be accomplished there is no remission. This |
has been insisted on and illustrated again and again by the spirits of |
persons who have departed this life. Take, for instance, the case of |
Isaac Singer, the inventor of the original sewing machine. He was not |
what would be termed “a bad man; ” he did not commit any grossly j
criminal acts—he was merely negatively bad. From his invention, i
given him for the benefit of humanity, he received a huge income, which j
he spent or hoarded for purely selfish objects. He did no good with the j
means of which he was simply the steward. Soon after his death he |
communicated; and that the communication might effect its object, it j
was made publicly in the Banner of Light circle room, in the presence
of forty persons, to this effect—that his selfishness had brought him
into much misery ; that he was in a state, of great spiritual destitution;
and that he was condemned to be a hewer of wood and a drawer of
water to others until he had expiated his selfish life.
The condition of a positively evil man after death, would, of course,
be much more aggravated, and would vary with the number and darkness
of his crimes; but the same law works, in degree, for all.
The question should be asked—if these convictions of Spiritualists
were universal would they not materially influence for the better the
national life ? If men were once convinced that every evil act must be
atoned for by themselves in some way or other before they could deserve,
and therefore before they could possess, happiness hereafter, would not
the conviction produce a caution and a self-restraint now unknown?
And would not the corresponding assurance that every good act is a
treasure laid up above where “ their works do follow them,” be an
incentive equally potent to active beneficence ?
It is really high time that orthodox people should open their eyes and
modify their corrupted doctrines, which seem rather to encourage than
to prevent crimes, as the great number of these clearly shows. The
Church incurs a fearful responsibility by continuing to disseminate such
pernicious doctrines; and all clergymen individually share in this
responsibility, which, viewed in the light of advancing knowledge, fore¬
shadows a weight that threatens to grind them to powder.
J. N. T. Mabtheze.
Brighton.  
THE FUTURE STATE OF EXISTENCE.
Sin,—Concerning the fact of our future progress all shades of
Spiritualists are in accord, though not in the manner of it; all also
agree in the desirability of our striving against the retardation of that
progress. But over and above, though not apart from our future, certain
questions have been of late mooted respecting our past, necessarily
speculative, and, however important, naturally of less importance, as a
matter of knowledge, than that which concerns our future. Still, as
questions on the past are now receiving attention on all sides, not only
among all shades of Spiritualists, but by the psychologists and occul¬
tists also, with progressive prominence, there must be reason for it.
Such questions, for instance, as the following are now asked—Whether
man’s soul pre-exists ? whether a man’s soul is a divine spark, shot
forth directly from the Divine Centre ? and at what period, under the
last-named supposition, our assumed divinity as beings thus separated
from the parent stock may be supposed to have commenced ?
These questions concerning our past condition, if it existed, may be
considered as futile by some, even if we could hope for any certitude
concerning them while denizens of this world, whether in or out of the
flesh; but since seeking for what may appear rational in the above
direction, concerning that on which our present and future may have de¬
pended and will depend, is at any rate now called for on all sides, I
send a communication which seems to have anticipated this now
general train of thought on this side of the channel, as it was written
two years and a half ago. It is a translation from the last number of
the Revue Spirite, that for June, 1876, and is an extract from a book
lately published at Bordeaux, in November, 1873, giving the remarkable
experiences of Madame Krell, a medium of that place:—
“ The intelligent principle developes with the being that possesses it,
and it is a Unit in its origin, and one only during its development, ever
one ! It is a spark which goes on enlarging, to become light and finally
seen. Our present object is to know at what moment this spark
makes its appearance, transforming a material being into an intelligent
being. So long as the being, during its first peregrinations in the
animal form, only as yet possesses latent life, movement; so long as in
the quality of an atom, a molecule, a vibration (vibrion), appearing and
disappearing during a few short moments, it only as yet serves for the
transformation of matter; so long as it has no conscience of its life, we
must admit that it does not as yet possess in itself that instinct which
afterwards becomes intelligence, soul, spirit. Those unnamed exist¬
ences of no precise form, impalpable and almost invisible, which are
everywhere present in fluidic as well as in compact matter, are in the
intermediary state between vegetable vitality and animal life which is
commencing.
According to my belief, this divine spark lightens up matters as
soon as a being attains to the feeling of preserving its life. From this
point, it is some ouq (il est quelqu'un).* It does not yet understand
this, but it feels in itself this indefinable thing which is life !
“ This feeling is still entirely instinctive, for the animal, as it scarcely
comprehends life, has no fear of death; not understanding dangers, it
rarely avoids them; death overtakes it without suffering, so to speak, and
transfers it to another form. The above is the intermediary condition
between instinct and intelligence; from this first state to the second,
that is to intelligence, there exists, we cannot but see, all the degrees by
which the being must pass in order to arrive at the higher grades
through the lower.
“ When instinct in a being grows into intelligence to the extent of a
desire to preserve its life, a dread of death and of suffering ensues:
the animal now defends its life in every way; it attacks its enemy; it
foresees danger, it uses cunning to avoid it; the animal now possesses
self-love, and will hold its own to the death so far as its force will go.
It is already gifted with memory and reasoning powers, as well as with
will, in its struggles against the fatal law of death, which nevertheless
comes upon it of necessity. Might we not also add that the animal has
now an intuition of sufferings endured at some former period; for this
innate fear of death, is it not the result of a dim memory of anterior
struggles ? . . . Who knows ? . .. I can but think that at this crisis the
intelligent spark is very near becoming sufficiently luminous for a still
more important transformation. I believe that the hour is not far dis¬
tant when this intelligence will be able to call itself—let us not hesitate
—Soul! Then this creature not only seeks to defend its life, but does
its best to preserve it, and strives to prolong it: a few more passages,
and the creature is on the eve of becoming master of himself, and
attaining the power of a free will. From this point can he be very far.
from possessing the ability to comprehend the duty of preserving his
life, the necessity for trial, and the goal to be sought after, as imposed
on the creature by the Creator ?
“We should pass the limits we have set ourselves were we to go
further; but I must repeat that God’s work is alike admirable in order,
connection, harmony, and simplicity. Man’s pride can scarcely find
place when he contemplates grandeur such as this ! So then, although
man is averse to the idea, it is none the less true that, by attentively
studying the world which he inhabits, he may easily come to a conclusion
concerning his origin.
“ Man, the king of creation, by the law of progress, will at a later
period understand the connecting chain which links him to all the
beings by which he is surrounded; when he attains this fraternal
standing point, he will no longer call himself master, king, but father
and protector of those inferior beings that are beginning the life which
he is finishing.”
As these last words are certainly no denial of man’s immortality,
perhaps the substitution of the term “ phase of life ” would have ex¬
pressed the meaning more plainly. An essay on progress is no herald
of death. Scrutatob.
POWERFUL SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS. .
Sir,—Being in the neighbourhood of Belper on the 24th instant, and
hearing of the presence there of Dr. Monck, the medium, I made my
way to the hotel at which he was staying just in time to find him in
company with Mr. Adshead, preparing to proceed to a seance, which,
though of a somewhat select character, I was courteously invited to
attend. The circle was held at the residence of a prominent Spiritualist
in the town. On our arrival we found some twelve ladies and gentlemen
assembled.
The room was darkened by means of drugget curtains; the doors
were locked; and, after some little singing, all our hands were joined
round a massive four-leaved table. Dr. Monck’s hands were held by
Mr. Adshead on the right, and Mr. Sowerbury (a gentleman of position
of the town, who was sceptical about Spiritualism) on the left. On the
table had previously been placed a guitar, two musical boxes, two tam¬
bourines, together with some nails, wood, and a hammer, also several
paper tubes. The medium very soon passed under the control of
Samuel, who appeared to be director of the proceedings. He com¬
menced by humorously accusing Mr. Sowerbury of having in his posses¬
sion the key of the musical box, and, almost before the denial could be
made to the charge, he (Mr. S.) declared that the key had myste¬
riously been placed in his closed hand.
The musical boxes were then wound up, Mr. Sowerbury still retaining
the key, and were alternately played and stopped in the middle of the
airs, according to the desire of the sitters. At length two musical
boxes were played together ; the guitar was violently operated upon by
what appeared to be a thumb; the tambourines floated, together with
the tubes. Whilst this was being done, Samuel desired the two gentle¬
men next the medium to continue firmly their grip of his hands, and
also to raise them, so as to place their fingers between his teeth. The
tambourines and books were thrown at particular sitters, at their
request, whilst Mr. Sowerbury, who came in for a large share of these
personal favours, several times felt a strong hand pulling his hair so
violently that he was compelled to call out to it to desist. This gentle¬
man, who appeared to be an intelligent and critical investigator, declared
himself convinced of the genuineness of the phenomena.
The table, an unwieldy piece of furniture, was raised en masse some
four feet; and, by way of conclusion to this portion of the seance, Dr.
Monck was raised to the ceiling, on which he wrote, then was placed
upon the knees of the last-named sitter. At this point, the hands of
course being now loosed, another control took possession of the medium,
and a remarkable test was given to a sitter, about a private interview
he once had with a departed friend.
* It attains character, unity.—Translator.
324
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 7, 1876.
So varied seems tlie mediumsliip of Dr. Monck that it forms a pleasant
exception to the stereotyped results at the seances of certain physical
mediums, the strange uniformity of which in some cases has a tendency
to create a suspicious feeling in the mind of sceptical investigators.
Again the control changed, and we were treated to one of the most
eloquent, though brief, dissertations on. the science of Spiritualism to
which it has been my fortune to listen.
The spirits next announced that they were about to conclude the
sitting by an experiment of a different nature : and immediately a small
slate was handed to Mr. Adshead, who, after well rubbing it, placed it
on the head of the medium, retaining hold of his right hand. In about
three seconds a light was struck; a message was found upon the slate,
containing, I believe, £,bout thirty words, neatly and straightly written.
Thus concluded a most interesting meeting, which lasted over three
hours; every one present expressed great satisfaction, in answer to
which Samuel declared us all “biologised.” Edwin Hall.
19, Elsworth-street, Cheetham, Manchester, June 27th, 1876.
MAGICIANS AND MEDIUMS.
Sir,—The following extract, from an account of Paracelsus in
Hallam’s Literary History (vol. iii. p. 398, edit. 1855), appears worth
copying into your paper, as bearing upon the connection between magi¬
cal and medial powers. Although unable to concur in your expressed
opinion that the records of magic are resolvable into cases of misunder¬
stood mediumship, I have always suspected that magical powers, so far
as the science of the adept is dependent for its application upon the
power of his will, are referable to the same abnormal development of
the psychic force or body which distinguishes mediums from other
persons. Given this material to work with, and the magician simply
differs from the medium as having the power, scientific and volitional,
of dealing with it himself, instead of yielding it to the manipulations of
others (spirits). Like every other natural agent, this astral or psychic
body can only be dealt with effectively by one who is acquainted with
its properties and powers ; but there seems no reason why this know¬
ledge should be unattainable by mediums, if they would only recognise
the force as their own, and cease to regard it as merely instrumental to
a foreign control. How far the higher precepts of the occultist, if faith¬
fully followed, would avail to develope this abnormal flow of the psychic
force in others, not exceptionally gifted with it by nature, is another
question; but it is evident that Paracelsus distinctly recognised a
peculiarity of constitution as favourable, if not indispensible, to the
professors of magic. And, by-the-by, allow me to commend this pas¬
sage to the notice of the gentleman who, as appears by your leading
article of the 7th January, made a fruitless search through the occult
writers for anything bearing upon modem Spiritualism:—“ Man has a
sidereal as well as material body, an astral element, which all do not
partake in equal degrees, and therefore the power of magic, which is in
fact the power of astral properties, or of producing those effects which
the stars naturally produce, is not equally attainable by all."
C. C. m;
SPECTRES OF ANIMALS.
Sir,—A letter from Prince Wittgenstein appeared in your journal
last month, containing a singularly interesting account of spectres of
dogs and other animals, and I am sure that those cases related by the
Prince’s personal acquaintances will doubtless obtain a ready credence,
sufficient to rescue them from the realm of superstition ; further, I trust
that his able paper may have the effect of inducing others to come for¬
ward with their experiences on the same subject, who, like myself—
until the matter was taken up by abler hands—would have shrunk from
the obloquy incidental to every new phase of psychological phenomena.
The following case came under my own immediate notice. Some ten
years ago, while resident in Manchester, I was returning towards Upper
Brook-street, after the Sunday morning’s service, walking slowly and in
rather a meditative mood. I was just coming to the end of a meadow
pathway, before entering the main road, when I observed, at about fifteen
yards’ distance, a hideously ugly dog looking intently at me. It seemed
of the largest bull-dog species, dark, and grizzly as if from old age; as I
approached, it moved on before me, occasionally looking back with fur¬
tive glances of terror. When I had proceeded about twenty or thirty
yards, I observed that the action of its hind quarters was that of a dog
receiving a severe kick from behind. This at once enchained my atten¬
tion, and on looking quickly around I saw no person near me from whom
the cause of this movement could have proceeded. I watched closely
thereafter its every motion. On proceeding a little farther, on the left
hand, there was an open carriage-way leading to a comfortable-looking,
but rather old-fashioned, mansion. This seeming dog turned up this
gateway. I quickened my pace, and never lost sight of it. The house
stood thirty or forty yards from the entrance, and as I had reached half¬
way to the house I observed the dog leap down a sunken basement
window. At the risk of its being considered obtrusive, I walked
straight up to the window, and there was no dog there! An incarnate
dog could not have left the place except by leaping back, because the
basement windows were built between the height of the front level, and
the lower windows were all stanchioned. I followed the thing so quickly
and closely that I could not for a moment doubt my senses; which,
coupled with the seeming chastisement from an unseen power, gave me
no hesitation in believing that I was protected from some malign in¬
fluence, and that by an unseen but watchful guardian.
My conviction of that at the time was complete, and will never be
forgotten. Knowing how incredible such a statement would appear, I
never mentioned the circumstance to my nearest friend, and whether the
term hallucination be awarded as the solution of the narrative it matters
not, it may induce others to come forward with similar episodes of life.
J. B. W.
3rd July, 1876.
SPIRITUAL CONFERENCE AT NEWCASTLE.
The adjourned Conference at Newcastle-on-Tyne took place on
Sunday morning last, when Mr. J. J. Morse was again appointed chair¬
man. He spoke of the injudicious step taken at the last meeting, at
which numbers of persons from a distance were present, of adjourning
the Conference, as proved by the present small attendance, adding that
what was still more annoying was that the mover of the resolution in
question, Mr. Pickup, was not present. Should they then at once close
the Conference, or resolve it into a meeting of the committee ?
Mr. Faucett, of Bishop Auckland, observed that he was there simply
on his own account, and not as representing his district; he gave a de¬
tailed account of the progress of Spiritualism in that locality, where
they had already a society in working order.
On the mooting of the question of the secretaryship of the Association,
Mr. Rhodes still declined the office, and suggested that Mr. Morse him¬
self would, if circumstances permitted, be the right person for that
position.
Mr. Mould proposed that Mr. Morse be appointed secretary of the
organisation.
Mr. Morse said that he would attend to the duties once a month when
Kj he came to Newcastle, and do his best in the matter.
The proposition was seconded by Mr. W. C. Robson, and after a few
jji remarks from Messrs. Kay, Robinson, and others, it was carried
I) j unanimously.
j)j Messrs. Petty and Martin, of Newcastle, and Mr. Crisp, of Stockton,
,j( I were added to the committee.
j) Mr. Kersey agreed to act as treasurer, and a vote of thanks to Messrs,
j | Kersey, Rhodes, and Morse having been passed, it was moved and
iff seconded that the Conference be closed.
i) j A committee meeting was then held, Mr. Mould in the chair.
| c j Some considerable discussion began as to the best mode of action, and
j) j it was thought that they would do well to follow the plan of the Lan-
i).j cashire organisation by forming sub-districts, with Newcastle as head-
j(! quarters.
The committee meeting was then adjourned; therefore any sugges-
i) i tions and communications on the matter, or any donations in aid of the
!<j undertaking, must be made at once to Mr. J. J. Morse, or to Mr.
h| Kersey, 4, Nixon-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Spiritualistic Marriage Ceremony. —■ The Heligio-Philosophical
|m Journal relates that Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, at the close of her
I \ i lecture at the hall of the Spiritual Lecture Association in Chicago,
| | Sunday, June 4th, united in marriage Mr. Erastus W. Pratt and
|>| Mrs. Electa E. Kelley. After an impressive address, and the usual
|)i formula, Mrs. Tappan concluded with the benediction in a poetical
jj improvisation.
Dr. Slade’s Visit to England.—Dr. Slade, the celebrated American
(I test medium, writes to us, announcing his intention of leaving New
York on the 1st July, by the steamer Holland, of the National line, for
London direct, in company with his niece and his managing partner,
Mr. J. Simmons; the whole party will, therefore, probably reach Lon¬
don towards the close of next week. Dr. Slade wishes all letters for
him to be addressed to the care of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Rus-
sell-street, W.C.
Passed to the Higher Life.—Last week Mr. Bassett, husband of
Mrs. Bassett, the well-known medium, departed this life, after a short
illness. Mr. Bassett will always be remembered as a kindly and disin¬
terested worker in the cause of Spiritualism, and one who, by means of
free lectures and a large number of free stances, did much to spread a
knowledge of its truths, chiefly in East London. He worked actively
and intelligently on various local boards, from the belief that such
action tended to promote the welfare of his neighbours and of the com¬
munity.
A Seance at Brixton.—A stance was held by the members of the
Brixton Psychological Society, on Tuesday evening, June 27th, with
Mr. Williams, medium, at the house of the vice-president, Mr. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, of Loughborough-road North, Brixton. Both the hands of
the medium were held by his neighbours all through the seance. An
outer and inner circle were formed, some distance apart, and soon after
the lights were extinguished an impromptu castanet accompaniment to
the singing was heard, as if all sorts of tools, from a bradawl to a
chisel, were being jangled together. This tool-box was brought by the
outside power from a distant part of the room, and shaken in time with
the singing. Then a bell was taken up, and rung around the circle, its
progress indicated by the direction of the sound, and beautiful spirit
lights were seen. Several of the sitters were touched by spirit hands.
My hand was taken by one and lifted up with great power so high that
I was compelled to stand on a chair. Then on resisting further uplift¬
ing I received three taps by way of farewell. A gentleman present was
called from the outer circle to wind up the musical box on the table, for
which he received three taps likewise. Rings were taken off the fingers
of several persons, and placed on the fingers of others by request.
Some electrical apparatus in the room was worked, and by way of finish
to this part of the seance some scent was brought from another part of
the room and distributed upon the sitters; then a rather heavy table
was brought also, and placed on the top of the one the sitters were
around. On a light being produced, the table was found to be covered
by a perfect chaos of articles. The medium’s hands had not been re¬
leased during the occurrence of these phenomena. Everybody present
was perfectly satisfied with the perfect genuineness of the manifestations.
—H. E. Frances, Hon. Sec.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Erratum.—The marriage of Mr. and Mrs. Jencken took place four years
ago, and not two years since, as stated in a recent article in these pages.
July 7, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. EL. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard Work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
hound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERB ARE.THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Yol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritnal-
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—^“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author oi acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium nght. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and Science• the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opiniwi that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s. ; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
»f his life *n earth, Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
8. Olcott. Profusely Illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY AGHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, byJoseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. OONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENOE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OP NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post,
fis. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician.
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
„ II.
„iir.
„ iv. „ . , .
„ v. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology,
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . .
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures , . . . ,
15
7
7i
7 fl
3 6
7 0
6 0
7 6
2 6
3 8
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 8
2 6
6
fi
0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 fi
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d, and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 8
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 10 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge.D.D. . . . . . . . 10 0
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter-
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize ofl'ered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences, (Pub. at 7*. fid.) is.,
Awa
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by llobert H. Collyer, M.D. . ..20
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . • 12 0
Son, Remember; an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . .30
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ....... 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS
Special edition for Schools • , , . 10
CARTE DE VISITS PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each,
1 Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITS PORTRAITS’OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers, is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. Cd.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T, R. Hazard.
fid. ’
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolf bus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 8d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning, fid.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock, 2s,
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 7, 1876.
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY',’
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY/‘AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and- American, Literatuj;£ofii Spirit-1
ualism, obtainable of ,W.' H. 'Harrison,'IS^t^Wa^ii’News-
£aper Branch Office, 38, Great-B^ssell-stileeit,'3lQOnisburyj-
ondon, W.O. • . v ' -r; '
[For purposes of .mutual convenience the abo.ve'office has 'been'
rented on the premisjes, of-the Katipnal AssociatiOn~of',Spirit¬
ualists, but the 'Assocfatioeand'^’he.AjptnfwnKst'Ne'v^siiaper* and
publishing business,'are'mot ,in ,any’:'wa'yi cohdeOted iwitln'eaeh,
other.] ■ ■ » . .KV j v-.: a
. i'Price.57s^|.6d;'jHcl6,t6;'. :L’:sr %
POEMS .FROM -JhhVinNRRIRPEm epl
LIZZIE nbflEN. v Tenth ediiian:. This Vyolumeiopens 5
with the wonderful experiences .of ..the author, wliQl‘.isJpe^u-l
liarly gifted, as a* trance medium' and public^sp|a^mCyi;^irf
plaifom labours have for 'a long time been unceasing/and the ■
deep religions and spiritual tppe'of her'discoursesAayelex^-
tended her Influence far beypnd.the limit ofiherlvbico.ithrftugh
the' instfumehtaljty^of ,.the^pr.ess.'r.This ,voluhje coptainsithe i
gems ■ of | the." irispifatiphallutterances,!: given’ ■chiefiylblfore'
public ■ audiences,- uifdSr^AifdctrspinlJ'influSnJep'^S^reraUpf,'
them are attribujed .toltEe^sgirit^of'Edga^lAl-'JPcioA Th^/have
the rhythinfc beautyl grahMurl!'ahd*imagefy;-of’hisj proiuc-’'
tions [in' earthdife. The ’ Biographical '.I-ryiVp'dja.etip.n? gives.* a
succinct acQOunt* Qf the means .by which, these poems, are . given .
to the world. The peculiar-influence which^eachapirit.exer-
eised over the /medium is- stated,/and'the'umnistarable^eer-
tainfy.and./Bigniflcarhfce'ofith'is'lhigher'phase of .spiritual com¬
munion is pouftrayed/ The bookis,^ valpable' addition [to the
evidences in favour bf.spiri.t intercourse [and of [its [[ennobling
tendeneies.—Boston,/lrS.;iiiG6BByeA:lil). HlOEf.’i 'London • Spirit¬
ualist Office. S 5- * • f', ,’;'t'
SPIRITUAL SCIRNTlST,'. of-Boston, Mass.,-'
U.S.A. The most faitlifui. and impartial exponent of
Spirithalisni in Aiherica'. 'Tfiei.felel7’SpjntMC(i[S(»,eafisif,“clearly
indicates Jiihe,. character f of . the,ilpapej.’, Unlike .all other
SpirituaI-journals[.it gathers from the. great authors of ancient
time the [fruits’of,Uheirlresearch'estiflto the secrets of nature
and^the'.Iawi of -’the Spiriiual ^Universe.• On; therOccult
Scienifes jt'hks'milny ahle'contri.butprsi'and.solicits correspon¬
dence: .Mtkit vis >%
Published weekly. :, iScienWif.Pub,[Co., publishers., E. Gerry
Brown, Editor.’ - Offices,. 18/Exchange-street, and 24, Deyom
shire-street, ''. The &f««<isiis:n[ow in its fourth, yolume, >. Terms
of subscription, in advahce,'13s/per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper .*branch' office,;38,; Grbat Bus'sell-slreet,'
London, W.O.
Price 5s.
IRELAND: UR OF THE CHALDEES.
London: Trubner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Reviewers’ Criticisms.
• "-Irishmen.ought, to read this work and he proud. It is
crammed with learning which' does credit to ■the research of
the'writer.’’-[7(!/Aj'is'tia%TFpj’lcf.
“ The"^6mew:hat [startling proposition contained in the title
of this work can hardly fail to interest a considerable number
of readers, and for those who maybe inclined to take the work
in hand, we may briefly state that the line of argument pur¬
sued is intended to show that the Chaldeans, the Hebrews,
and thh,v0elfe;are.'fclcnti(;gj3;-thae6ummary<.giyer^^t^he cjose
’being ,that s|he[ AsP^a^Raite'Chaldeanyw^re the -progenitors
of th e. '[.Hebrew '-.diia 1 tie a n s[ a n’3 ’ i Vi fk- r only In-name-,f-rom the
first Gaels[ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amount of corrobora¬
tive evidence is adduced in support of them, the value of which
many will he glad to test.”—Rock.
Published at 7g. ,6d. Reduced to. 4s.
Mesmerism,- /animal- magnetism;
and SOMNAMBULISM,- with expeiimeuts and ohser-
va tions, also .illustratiyeyinstancesipf.,'ah'al6g6uslphenorfiena;r
occurring spontaneously, and- an^appehdix^df ’ corroborative-
factSj-.by jj ’ *fM.
‘ ; / “ edwii/l|!e;/%d,,
CorrespohdingiMember of fhe Medical Asspciatibn of Prussia, . -
the Royal ’Academy oF-Medibirie - of-'-Bei'giuin,-the medical
academic hf Paiis,vBerliu, 'Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence."'
. Thd’: Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves'ah ehorihdus deal.- for. ns' to
do. The theory of life, itself probably Jies within our. know¬
ledge. We-perceive the-connection of'nerves'-wi-th' the -ppera- *
tions of mind, but.we cahnbthn(Jea:stand a.,think.ing, alseehig, ?
or a hea’rihg nbrye. - Here,"and- in many.other pbints thereris _
room<fbr mflhite: discbvefyj'tb 'say- nothirig''bf; the wonderful •
pheh&men^pf ahimal'magnetisrn^VYhieh onTyEfiglishmeh', with -
their^c'customed-lgnbrahce,' are.apt.tcUahgIi at, .hut.whicH ho
one g,s yet has either thoroughly ascertained or'e'xplaided.'. /
PubMbed*-hy Lbngmahs-at. 7s.r6d. Reduced in priee(to 4s;
Inlahd’Pbstage, 4d.' Newopapef Byaneh Office: •' "
Q P-LRITUALISMITS CAUSES. AND
KJ.-:,EPFECTS, by.BARpN. DiRCKiNCK-HOLMFELb. , A reyiew
of; thisiipamphlet.-appearjed. in .the.-March, number.-of The
Spiritual Magazinfr of .this1 year.' Mayhe* had * of ’.W.’' H‘.
Harrispn,, 38, Great RusselLstreet, Bloomsbury; W.C. ‘Price
6d.,-pbsi free, 7d. - A l — v
ANNALT DELLO 'SPIRTLISMQ IN. ITALTAi
—Rivis^ PsipolP^iQa ,di ■Niceford’Filaletel, Published
n the 15th of'every1 month,--at-Turin, Tip.'Baglione,-via'
Bogin’o, No. 23..: ; .If • ' ,! ' - '> V '
THE • HOME ' FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD'PI,ACE, RUSSELL SQUARE,’W.O.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists'visitihg London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends'‘of tb,e'Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Home," on the' principle of a private
Boarding House. It is conveniently located for the principal
railways, and is in the very area" of the spiritual movement.
Its arrangements have been designed with a special view to
the requirements of Spiritualists.
Applications should he made as far as possible in advance
Manager—Mrs. A. 0, Burke. *
TESTIMONIAL TO MR.
“ - COLEMAN. 1
BENJAMIN
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM. .
1 •’ 1 •' :*/’[/COMMITTEE *>tH *
ThebQgpqtggg pf'OajtjiJleis.jgtagenJioe/jarkii^elwyn, Herts.'
Sir Gharles;IghamV’3jart.;fLampor't HaH*;M.brthanipton".; ..-p
. -;Wi]Hiq|£Ho^tt^Eag!>MofcuS, Italy. . •:(!; u s. ' «
b*S.' C!fHal],'EsqVF.S.Av60/;’Hollan/-street, Kefisington. ;*
^Alfxan;der,0feider,'s-Esq.;,-l-‘'0'erefqrd-squdre/S(ffi.th"';Kensington
*!Ch%rl^g[Blackburn.'‘[^jsq., pidsbury, MadcheStm,.J ;. *
,*Wj^0C.w®y^nson/Ej<^iJ1’£iiioofl[’s ’•ii^-i&el'ds.' 1
w<A.<AfiWa|m7 Esq./li9^LansdowJie-!roaflr^NQ4;tiihg-hill, W--!
^Si Ohinnel-yfEJqf. dl^cStralijd, Lopdon.'W.O.’?  
S. Jy Enmp.re. JfqnegyEaqgf.Eainore-itSrk. S.E. •. v « i---i
?[0[[Tbwnseri(l'Hdok,T®q.,'Snddlanp"Rqdhegter[,Kent.';,'
f Q-jNJ S|rawbridge, J%q., Annandaj|,e,, Upper Norwood, - S.E. m ■ ■
Cornelius Pears.on/i;sq:,T5,^Iarp.er-’strfet,'-‘jBi69msbqry;1 *
WiHi;amJfrfetDb/E§q.['7,*'Aibefi;-roau,!1Glbucester-1g*£rte"*,‘-lIegeht’s-
park.- j r ■ • ; f'> > rr; r v • ;/ C " • ' ' 'r
■ AT Leighton, Esq'.‘„16, South.Oastler'strg.et,’ l^iverpool.
; James,!Wasqn,[Esq.,,Waspu’s-huil'dings,'[Liverpool.[: LA,
. MrsTMakdougaliGregoryj - 21, Queen-stfeet/Grosvbuor-rsquare.'-
Mrs..TeJ)h, 7,-Albert![ro'ad,'Rbgent!s'ipafk','',N?W.' SK „
Thomas. Hayle, Esq'., M.D ,.The Orescent, Rochdale,
Thomas'ShbrteiV-Esq.;*23,'Prince fif -Wales-rbad, N.W'.'
Jacoh Dixon, Esq.','M,D.?8‘ Great OrihendistVbetjWiO.' * 1
- W. H. Harrison, Esq!; 38[.preat R’u’sseiLstreetpW.C?,- ' *' ’ !
J: H. Gledstanes,. Esq'., Junior United Service Club/ S.W.
W. C!fCoppefthwait'e,;Esq., Maltoh[ Yorkshire, -i
Cromwell. F. Varley,*Esq., F.R.S.,:2, Great ^Yinchester-street-
- ' buildings, E.O. -:i"; ; '-LI-’mV,/ /'i^.,-r,
The Hoh.' j. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Oourfof
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris, > . -
Hay'Nisb'et; Esq '^lO/George-strtebt, Glasgow.
Mr@. Hamilton, York-place, Pqrtmfun-square
JbhnLamont, Esq., Finfleld,‘Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 19, Leamingtbn-road-villas, Westbovine-
| • park. ■ . - i I * ■ - •* wVW h-A
Andrew Glendinning, Esq.,/, Castlediti'e-fbadjAnefly^S.E ..
W: J. Williams, Esq.; Olarence Club, :Watefl5b!-platfe;-S: W,. - -
Epes Sargent, Esq [‘Bosion, U.S.A. '
' Subscriptigps,‘ which will, be duly.acknowjedged,1 maybe
forwarded to the'Lon:[ Treasurer,’ Alexander Caldef,'Esq . 1,
Hefefbrd-sqnare, .'SWuth “KAnsington,- S; W,or ' to’ the'' Hoa‘
Sec., A. Jo[yriEsq.; 0<9, Qreat:fi,ussell-street,'W.O. '''
The/f6UoKing':sums''have been already- subbtribed
Charles.. Blackburn, Esc  
' a.'v. H...:..r..‘.;.:r.;.. 
Martin RT Smith, Esq. .-   
Alexander Calder, Esq,    
William Tehb, Esq  
A. L. Elder, Esq   
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq   
O. V. Hoffmann 
James Wason, Esq 
Friends at St. Petersburg   
Friends at Glasgow, per H. Nishet, Esq.
Thomas G-rant, Esq. .^....7.;... ;..t;
A Frieiid S .t..... .7.... .7.?.;;
" Mrs: St. Claire   
W. J. Williams, Esq  
Two Friends and Neighbours  
W. 0. Copperthwaite, Esq   
G-. N. Strawbridge, Esq 
Alexander Tod, psq   
:J. Ridlej^, Es^h.. .“v,• -i.   rr. ,
. i-MrsAHamilton.1;-.f....i
Mrs;Daun ......TT..’....UaUT 
T. J. Allman, Esq  
Mrs. Hennings    
Mrs. Berry    
J. Y. Vernon, Esq   
W. H. Harrison, Esq   
*’■ CrTdwhsebd Hook; Esq...'.. 
William Hqwitt,-Esq.  >.....
- EnmoiLe JoneferEsq.'...'.'.;..*.;: 7.!....“.*...
“A: ‘A? Watts, Esq!" .;
^ •Mrs?:[Watts*t;f57^. .ffi. YllSTr. .f:..... iTT'.'.......7.
- AY^lter-'V^eldQhrEsq.'*.7::...* .L*!'..
m./g-.- s.. t.-. T*.-.. i*r.... .lt.-. :v:.“rr. 
.C.:F. Vstrley,'Esq. :.T....*.7.;..'.......„.r.7..
J. h. PWvf  
F. Griffin, Esq  
Sir Charles Isham, Bart 
J. S. Law, Esq.  
Friend, per Mrs. Vernon.... 
G-. de Liagre     
C. Pearson, Esq 
Miss Clark  ; 
S, O^-HalLEsq. -.............^ 
John Marshall;Esq; 
- Or Stephens, Esq.' 
Dr. R. Baikie 7.   
4 F.^f  
Rqv..W.'W^iitear     
* Miss-Whitear ■*./.*.*.-..At 1.......1
Thomas Scott, Esq.. ...‘T.'.T.T'.   
D;G-.VFitzgerald;Esq. ...:; 
MiBsWatts.............'....:. ...h!..
i T.iSkihner,' Esq., M.D 
L.^J./:   7....,
«-T.<Shbrtqr, Esq.  r. :.r...T.. .v
'MlDe Veh  * W, 
JphnLarqqnt, Esq.  
^CJMcLearn'Esq.'."../.........*  
1 MissLouglas ;.....r.7.
J; Hare, Esq, and Friends 7." !...
Rev. J; MannersT.............T. .V.
R.B   I
fcprpfow.
A/,Grlendinning, Esq. -  i.  
.W/GUynes-, Ilgq.,v;.. S.. “ 
,■ j.TT.’peele; Esq. ...7;..
5 Df.:C’.aL". KO^raoh-?...W..Al.
Mr/ S.‘rPiokson!    .: .v...*
E Regmrm -li.: .v. j;/..
Friend, per T. Hajle, Esq. ..’.......V...
F. AT Binhey, Esq.'    r.   ..
w. w.          
J. Swinburne, Esq '.!   I’..'....
J. Gledsianes, Esq 
Mrs. M. Gregory   
Dr. Hayle   
C. P. Garter, Esq.    
Mrs. Wiseman -.  
A. R. Wallsice, Esq.-...:.... ; 
J. C. Eno, Esq    
Baronin v. Vay    
C. Parsons, Esq     
0. 0. G.      8
D. S, Yi      i,
£50 'o- ;o '•
‘‘30"O' 0
25 0 0
25 0 0
25 0 0
25 0 0
20 0 0
20 0 0
20 0 0
19 7 6
-10 16 0
10.10 0
10 10 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
MnmmQ'r -
: aoLcp-bo’'' *
10«0 ,0
10 0 0 ’
5 5 0
5 5 0
5 5 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
6 0 0
Isi 0; 0 •
Bfl o' o^'
- 5 5040
[5’0:0.,
V 5[ 0 ’.0 *
S 5'0 ; 0 .
! 5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
3 3 0
3 3 0
3 3 0
3 0 0
2 2 0 .
,2:20
- 2 2 *0 -
2 2 ’ 0
- 2 2 0 ’-
2 2 0
1 2 ’ 2 :0 '>
2.2 • 0
.2 2 0 •’
2 2 0
2 2 0 L
, 2. 2 0
2,0 0-
2 0 0'
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0 :
2 0 0
1 1T0
1^1 0 '
110
110
1- 1 0 •
• If 1^0
It 1'0
i! ib T
...i.a.'.o
i i ..o -
1 10
1 10
1 0.-0-'
1.0 TO *
1 0 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
10 0
0 18 4
0 10 6
0 10 0 1
0 0
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
^ Christianity and Modem Spiritualism,
/..By EUGENE'CROWELL, M.D. '
This,OctavotVolume,handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
V v. u- ’•* completes the work.
’ ’’ *  a*-.;*. «.** sWgjfefiW;
WSp?—Spirit tlVritiiig!—  
' II.^Leyitati6Sj%/ Qqnveyance by Spirit-power £
... .IM.t-lnsensibility ,tg«Ei4ei -
IVr—Clairvoyance AudSomnamhuIism,
V.—Clairaudiencea
VI.—Dreams and Visions • ymm f -
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy —• ‘
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
 X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
I ■ XII.—Death.
.-..,XIII.—T.h&.Spirit-Worid.
' . .Xiy.I^Spiritualism.and the Church.
..f-XV:—Spiritualism and Science.
. XVET—OsilcluMoh.;.' i y
The above^work-ha'S-just been issued in America, and copies
afe.npwib'n salb.iSricfttOA'Gd: each, post free 11s. 6d., at The
(SpOtiMaZis!:,-Newspaper.'Branch Office, t ,
J./ ’ j By Royal, Leitws Patent. ' s ‘ , :'
.“.KRINE C'GBMETIO;”- THE HAIR
1yU 'beautified,-' ‘ /
• " PROMOTE S' THE ‘GROW Tir'OF’THE HAIR, AND
- : - IMPARTS! TO IT A HEALTH-YrBRILLIANOY;
t IT .CLEANSES THE. HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO[G$EY HAIR;'ITS: ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive- of Cold in the Head, and affords a
' ‘ grateful relief to Headache.
' This Hair Wash wijl not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. i?lt nsAntifely free from lead and all other mineral
and.’ noxious ingredients, as may he proved by chemical
analysis.. - - ,1's- -- .
, the,above ..fact, renders ?THE' “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable1 preparation fbr -the/Nursery as. well as for the
Toilet of the1'Adult,’superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient."
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. Cd.. per,‘-Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, SO,1" George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kaedec. Translated by Anna
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes ^psyclio-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears bn the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 frame,.' (Published by the Sociiti
Anonyrne, 7* Rue^cluuJLiHej Pails. Post Office orders payable
•to M. Leymane. "
THE RELIGIO - PHILOSOPHICAL
JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modern Spiritualism. Established in 1865.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have'. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
111. ^ . f ,,T . .
THE " FOOD .'question' —'itamfeafo
Publications 'of the Vegetarian Sbciety'serit frde’tb^any
Address 'on receipt of postcard. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
mHE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
JL WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robeet Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proofof .this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained :by evidence as
Strong as.'that..which daily determines, in bur courts'* of_ law,
the life and_ death of men. .This'hook affirms that the strongest
pfkll • historical,evidences’for, mqdgm Spiritualism are found
in' the Gospels, and .that the. strongest of alLproof going to
substantiate, the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena,
of .Spiritualism!'!, Cloth, 7s. 6d.
■' 7he 'Spiritualist Newspaper Branch'Office.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in . addition • Ten initial letters "or
figures count as.. one , word. Displayed Advertisement.» Five
Shillings per inch.!, Reduced terms for extended periods.
. “ The ■ Spiritualist is a very. good', medimn for advertisements,
because if circulates largely among those whom advertisers .desire t o
peachy.and-an,advertisement is .not lost to. view amid a [mass of
qthej-g.‘yMoreover,Ttlie[ paper is not usually torn up when read, but
presefvedfqrbinding.:!o‘ . * . .
(Allvcpmijiu'nlcati'ons. .-foi’.-the, Advertising Department of this
,n/wspg.p^^.to.bejadftressed to Mr. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street
'Ijbncloh/jmd orders,intended'for’the Friday’s issue should reach the
office-hot Jafeivthaii! by the; first post on the previous Wednesday
qiorning..;. All."commimications for the Literary Department should
he'aq^i/sgpd to the Editor. .
! Mb notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the .United Kingdom on receipt of the .
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Aye Maria-lane, London,
E.C.  
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveeidge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
