AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[EEGISTEEED FOE TEANSMISSION ABEOAD.]
No. *117.—(Vol. Y.—No. 21.) LONDON: NOVEMBER 20j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
Contents.
An Illustrated Spiritual Periodical. By William H. Harrison  241
Spirit Teachings. No. XXIII. The Outcome of Spiritualism  242
Life and its Laws from a Swedenborgian Point of View. No. III. By
William Oxley   244
Experiments in Mind-Beading...  245
The National Association of Spiritualists ... ' 246
An Eminent Medium Dramatist By Benjamin Coleman 246
Beview       ... 247
Spiritual Anthropology at Liverpool ...     249
Correspondence:—Mr. John Stuart Mill on Immortality—The Myste¬
rious Man—An Austrian Article on Spiritualism—Reincarnation—
Ex-Spiritualists 249
Extraordinary Manifestations in Birmingham     251
Bacon a Spiritualist ...    ... ... 252
Answers to Correspondents   ...252
Paragraphs:—Soiree at Goswell Hall, 248; Miracles Wanted, 249;
Organisation, 251; The Coming.«Sotrs<, 252; The Royal Institution ... 252
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 26 Viet., cap. 89 )
42, POULTRY (CORNER OF OLD JEWRY), LONDON.
SIMPLE FORM OF ASSURANCE,
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
if preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
Trustees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray. Bart., James White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murray, Bart. (Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
William Berry, Esq., John Brown, Esq., Courtenay Clarke, Esq., Arthur
lago, Esq., Lord Frederick H, Kerr, M. E. Marsden, E.-w., R. iv Martin,
Esq., M.A., F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White, Esq.,
Major J. C. Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Actuaries.
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss,
Auditors.—Robert Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffin, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffin).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.R.S.
CLASS.
SM
<1
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total
Disable¬
ment.
Partial
Disable¬
ment.
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
Paymt
within
TwoYrs
‘ A. B ” Insuring a sum
if Killed, and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
£
1000
500
250
100
£ s.d.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 O
10 0
£ s. d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
£ s. d.
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
£ s, d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
£ s. d,
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
“ A.’’ Death only.
1000
500
110
0 11 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
0 11 6
0 6 6
‘ B.” Weekly Allow¬
ance only.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
0 18 0
2 0
3 0
12 6
0 12 6
12 6
0 12 6
A&ENT—MR. THOMAS BLYTON,
12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on he shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
BERAL DISCOUNT1 FOR CASH. 
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE.
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c, &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
Newoastle-on-Tyne.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon
application.
N.B.—THE SUBSCRIPTION FOR THE CURRENT TEAR, 1874, WILL NOT BE
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOININO AFTER THIS DATE.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL hold a SOIREE, on the 3rd DECEMBER, at the
CO-OPERATIVE HALL, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
All Spiritualist friends, many of whom have been dispersed during the
summer and autumn, are invited to a friendly and sociable winter
gathering. .
The ladies of the Association will preside at the tea-tables. Volunteers
are requested to send in their names to the Hon. Secretary.
J. M. GULLY, Esq., M.D., IN THE CHAIR.
Tea served at 6.30. Chair to be taken at 8 o’clock.
Admission—to include tea, Is. 6d. After 7.30., 6d. Eight Is. 6d. tickets
for 10s.
Tickets to be had of Mr. George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street. Holborn,
W. C., of Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W., of Mrs.
Maltby, 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, and of Mr.
J. W. Haxby. 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town.
Friends are requested to supply themelves with tickets in advance.
E. Kislinubury, 1 ~ „
Algernon Joy, jSon' Secs‘ .
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
BY MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
There will be 36 Lectures, delivered on Sunday Evenings, commencing
October 25th, and ending in Jane next, divided into courses of
Twelve Lectures,
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-Street, Regent-street, London. Doors open at 6.30;
Commence at 7 p.m.
Committee.
Alexander Calder, Esq.. The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.—Chairman.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.; Dr.
Gully, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.: Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.; Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands. Wimbledon Common,
S.W.; Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.; G. N. Strawbridge,
Esq., and Mrs. Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s Inn-square, W.C.
(Hon. Secretary and Treasureri)
,A subscriber of £5 will be entitled for the whole series to a reserved
seat for himself and friend.
Tickets to admit one person for a course of 12 lectures only, will be
issued at 24s., and 12s. each.
There will be a limited number of (id. seats.
Tickets to be obtained of the Treasurer, Mr. Webster Glynes, 4, Gray’s
inn-square, on application enclosing post office order.
Single Tickets sold at the doors.
Persons desirous of obtaining seats are requested to come early.
The hymns used in the service will be taken from the “ Spiritual Lyre,”
sold at the doors.
T>IRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
JLP Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer .a Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c.,' effected. Advances-made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 20, 1874.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Beakers for 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lament, Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. (4. Wharmby, Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. R. Casson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffln, Mr. Riece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
TRIlBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON'. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland
.By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown Svo
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo„ p.p. 412, cloth. 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book..’'—Saturday Review.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary. 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A, M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown Svo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Firections of Human Development—The Sig>
niflcance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffln. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubner & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill. 
marylebone association of enquirers
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
A discussion will take place at above address as follows :—
Wednesday, Nov. IDA.—“ Atheism, its influence on Society.’’ Opened by
Mr. Cain.
November, 18<A.—“The Theological Devil.’’ Opened by Mr. Freehold.
November, 25th.—“ Readings from the Poets, &c., &c.’’ -
December, 2nd.—“Astrology—Is it true?” Opened by Mr. T. W.
Shearing.
December, 9fA.—“ Protestantism and Prostitution.” Opened by Mr. G.
F. Tilby.
Charles Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. Svo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
YMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the Worid," and “Lyrics and Bucolics," &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
AC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Mafia-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURAT I YE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DlDlER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Baillierr & Co., King William-street, Strand.
Crown Svo. 3s. 6d., or with gilt edges 4s.
THE ANGELS.
CONTENTS.
I.—What are Angels ? II.—The Origin of Angels, HI.—Seership, IV.—
The Intermediate State. V.—Will the natural body rise ? VI.—What do the
Angels do? (1). For men on earth; (2) For spirits in the world of spirits;
(3) In Heaven.
James Speirs, 36, Bloomsbury-street, London.
TWO weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—See Advertisement.
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The Object of the committee arid of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and precious truths of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary. 
THE WONDER OF THE AGeT^JUST ISSUED.
mHE TWO DISCOYERIES, OR KEY TO PIKE’S
JL SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of Ihe most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp., 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the path of duty; also the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance, into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematical discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
schools.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
“PINE’S SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.”
HIS is so popular that orders are coming in rapidly
from all parts of the Queendom. So send your orders as soon as
possible, accompanied with a P. O. order, as follows:—For No. 1, £2 7s. 6d,
No. 2, £1 12s. 6d; No. 3, 17s. 6d.; No. 4, 10s.-; addressed to CLEMENT
PINE, Taunton-road, Bridgwater.
N.B.—The above prices include a box (2s. 6d.) in which are full instruc¬
tions, returnable as therein directed, excepting the No. 4. All orders will
be executed in rotation as promptly as possible.
PIRITUALISM AND REFORM. ‘ ‘ The Banner of Light ”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century, issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass. U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Three Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER.
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
NewspaP®rsan<^ Periodicals supplied. Agent for 7%e>8ptn'l!wafMf Newspaper.
eita
]L of lip yrogrm of % ^tpnto anh ^plfps of ^jtptfaaliaw.
YOjLUJVIE FIVE. piUJVlBEF^ TWENTY-ONE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20th, 1874.
Spxntixalist S^tos^Epr.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS:—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty .words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous "Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be infoi'med of such impediments and iri'egulari-
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.'—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 819, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswiok-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street;
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for Sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
JpEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medica Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Ojflees—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
AN ILLUSTRATED SPIRITUAL PERIODICAL.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
With this number of The Spiritualist a supplement
is issued, consisting of a specimen page of a proposed
monthly illustrated Spiritual periodical, which will he
issued in the event of a sufficient number of copies
being ordered to clear expenses, but not otherwise,
since it is not desirable to attempt to introduce into the
movement another journal not self-supporting. The
specimen-sheet, although not discreditable, is not so
good as will be those of the intended journal itself;
the paper of the latter will be thicker, the pages will
be much broader, so as to give large, rich . margins, the
large initial letters will be specially cut in wood, and
be of an antique pictorial style; in short the journal
will fulfil one of its chief objects—that of showing that
art and culture can go hand in hand with Spiritualism.
As the public judge a movement to a great extent by
the nature of its periodicals, the one now proposed is
likely to exercise a powerfully beneficial influence.
The chronicles of Spiritualism of this generation are
at present imperfect, because the stirring events taking
place in our midst are not put on record pictorially,
nor are the likenesses of our best workers secured for
the public and for posterity. Perhaps nobody sees the
imperfection of the present records more than myself,
who, in article-writing for standard scientific journals,
have an artist with me to get up engravings whenever
they are wanted, whereas in the literature of Spirit¬
ualism this useful aid is altogether absent, and the
extent of the loss must be practically seen to be fully
appreciated.
A little of the space in the new journal will be
further utilised by the republication of one or more
standard psychological works, long out of print, but
much wanted; the copyrights of several have been
offered for the purpose. Care will be taken to make
the new literature in the journal of standard quality.
Thus will all the space not only be covered with most
useful matter, but the whole volume will be one which
ladies and gentlemen would desire to see on their draw¬
ing-room tables, or to present to friends they wish to
specially interest in Spiritualism.
I hope that the readers of these lines will order
copies by fives, by tens, and by scores per month, also
that the dead weight of lethargy or mental inertia
which inevitably opposes all new suggestions will be
quickly overcome, because dilatoriness on the part of
individuals in sending in orders which they intend to
forward eventually may simply have the effect of pre¬
venting the journal from appearing at all. If I pub¬
lished single engravings, not in a periodical, of the
quality now proposed, they would be worth several
shillings each, but by co-operation and all pulling
together, an illustrated periodical can be had monthly
at less expense, and the copies will be valuable property
in the hands of their owners. A list of the orders will
be published ; those friends who are only inquirers into
242
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Nov. 20, 1874.
Spiritualism, and wish, their initials only printed, in¬
stead of their names, are requested to say so.
Artistic ability of several kinds will be required upon
the journal, one for mechanical drawings, another for
portraits, another for scenes and groups, and so on.
The artists who will work in the matter are of estab¬
lished reputation in their different departments, but I
have no authority to publish their names. This is not
a hasty scheme; I have been thinking it out for
months, and have made most careful provisional ar¬
rangements ; from long experience in the management
of political and other newspapers, I have been enabled
to guard against unnecessary expenses, but at the same
time have secured good and efficient work in all de¬
partments connected with the issue of the proposed
journal.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.
NO. XXIII.
THE OUTCOME OF SPIEITTJALISM.
In answer to my objection that the outcome of Spirit¬
ualism was bad in the mass, or, at any rate, of mixed
benefit, it was written [July 10th, 1873] :—
"We would speak to you on this point, and endeavour
to show you the errors into which you have fallen.. You
fall, first of all, into a mistake almost inseparable from
your circumscribed vision. You mistake the results
which obtrude themselves on your notice for the total
outcome of the movement. You are as they who are
bewildered by the din and outcry of a small sect of
enthusiasts, and who mistake them and their vocifera¬
tions for a mighty power, for the voice of a representa¬
tive body of opinion; and lo! they heed not the silent
power which works deep down below, which is seen
only in its results, and is not heard by its much crying.
Ye hear much of a noisy, undisciplined mass, not
numerous, indeed, but obtrusive; and ye say well that
it is not such cries that can regenerate the world. You
shrink intellectually from their utterances, and are
inclined to question whether this, that is so forbidding,
can indeed be of God, and for good. A part only is
visible to you, and that part but dimly. Of the hidden
silent votaries of a faith which comes to them from the
God who is revealing Himself to them in ways which
come home to their several necessities, you hear and
know nothing. Such are outside of your ken: though
they may and do exist all around you, the faithful
communers with the spheres, who know in what they
have believed, and who drink in, hour by hour, fresh
store of grace and knowledge, waiting for the time when
they, too, shall be emancipated from the prison-house
of the body, and rise to take their part in the glorious
work.
And so it chances that, both from the obtrusive
crying of the one and from the silence of the other,
both from the limited nature of your faculties and from
the still more limited opportunities for observation, you
take a narrow view, and substitute a part for the whole,
representing the great body by that limb which is least
fairly a specimen of it. We are disposed to question
your conclusion as to any phase of Spiritualism being
bad or mischievous in its outcome, while we deny alto¬
gether your ability to pronounce any opinion upon the
broad question in its ultimate issues.
For what is the real truth? The operations of the
Supreme are uniform in this as in all things else. The
evil and the good are mingled. He does not use great
messengers for that work which can be accomplished
by more ordinary spirits. He does not send the high
and exalted ones to minister conviction to an un¬
developed and earth-bound spirit. Far otherwise: He
proportions His causes to the effects which they are
intended to produce. In the operation of the ordinary
processes of nature, He does not produce insignificant
results from gigantic causes. So in this domain of
spirit agency. They who are crude in intellect, and
undeveloped in aspiration, whose souls do not soar to
heights of moral and intellectual grandeur, such are
the charge of spirits who know best how to reach and
touch them; who proportion their means to the end in
view; and who most frequently use material means for
operating on an undeveloped intelligence. To the un¬
educated in mind and soul, the spiritually or intel¬
lectually unprogressed, they speak* in the language most
intelligible to their wants. The physical operation of
force that can be gauged by external sense is necessary
to assure some, nay, very many, of existence beyond the
grave.
Such receive their demonstration, not from the
inspiring voices of angels, such as those who in every
age have spoken to the inner souls of the man who
formed and guided that age, but from spirits like unto
themselves, who know their wants, their mental habits
and altitudes, and who can supply that proof which
will come home to and be acceptable by those to whom
they minister. And you require to remember, good
friend, that extreme intellectual may co-exist with
scarce any spiritual development; even as a progressive
spirit may be hampered by the body in which it
is confined, or bound down by imperfect mental culture.
Not to every soul is the spirit voice audible. Not
to every spirit is the same proof made clear. And it is
very frequently the case that souls which have been so
hampered by superabundance of corporeal or deficiency
of mental development, find their spiritual progress in
a sphere where those faults are remedied.
For nature is not changed all at once as by a
magic wand. Idiosyncrasy is gradually modified and
elevated by slow degrees. Hence to one who has been
born with mental faculties in a high state of develop¬
ment, and who has improved them by perpetual culture,
the means employed to reach the uneducated and unre¬
fined must needs seem coarse and rude, even as the
issues must seem rough and undesirable. The voice is
harsh, and the zeal evoked is not according to discretion.
The nature is being gradually changed from a blank
and cheerless materialism, or a still more hopeless
indifferentism, and there springs within them an enthu¬
siasm at the new life which they feel swelling in their
souls. They give vent to the joy they feel in tones not
cultured but not less real, not pleasing, perhaps, to
your critical ear, but not less grateful to the ear of the
Good Father than the cry of the returning son who has
wandered from his home and disowned his kindred.
The voice is real, and that is what He and we regard.
We are not scrupulously nice to mark the exact accents
in which the cry is syllabled.
So to the spiritually undeveloped the means used to
insure conviction are not the voices of the Angels who
minister between God and man, for they would cry
in vain. Means are used which may lead the spirit to
ponder on spiritual things, and lead it to discern them
spiritually. Through the agency of material operations
the spirit is led up to the spiritual. Such operations
old and tried workers in the cause of Spiritualism, in
midst, as well as celebrated mediums, whose likena
ought to be properly engraved, for the present gratified
of their friends, and the future interest of the picture
posterity. Without an Illustrated Journal, the chron!
of Spiritualism of the present generation are imperfect
3. New religious ideas sometimes encourage the ]
gress of art, science, and culture, and sometimes tern
retard them, hence the value or otherwise of a relig
movement is sometimes judged by thinking people
accordance with the tendency it exerts in these respe
Consequently it woqjd be a good thing to be able to p
out that we Spiritualists possess the most hands
periodical published in the United Kingdom. I do
know of any periodical at present in existence printej
two colours, or in the finished style of the one now j
posed.
Each number of the Magazine will consisj
sixteen pages, in a wrapper ; the paper will be j
thick, and of high quality. The number of p^
it will be noticed, is limited, otherwise, g
engravings and high quality could not be gj
with limited circulation; the annual volume
twelve numbers will thus contain 192 pages;
the leaves will be double the ordinary thick|
they will form a substantial book when boil
The price of each monthly number will be
shilling, post free to those annual subscribers 1
order them before the ninth day of next mo
(December, 1874).
If before the ninth of December next, inten<
annual subscribers will send in orders enougl
guarantee a minimum circulation of 1,200
month during the year 1875, the Magazine
be published early in January next. If not,
project will be abandoned. The manufactur
the paper, and the preparation of the engravi
To Mr. W. H. Harrison, it, Ave Maria Lane, Lon
Please post me Copies Monti
One Shilling per copy, post free within the limits of the l
of equal amount, the First Instalment to be paid on the Ft
Please write Name and Address legibly, to prevent mistak
20
SUPPLEMENT
Jiluatrateir Spiritual ^metrical
HIS SPECIMEN SHEET is intend
to show the size of page, and, appro
mately, the style of printing, of a p
posed new Monthly Magazine, exq
that the present Specimen is print
on very much thinner paper, in order not to renc
The Spiritualist Newspaper this week so mu
heavier as to increase the rate of its forei
postage. I propose to bring out the first Numl
early in January next, provided that a sufficie
number of Annual Subscribers enter their naif
for copies to warrant such a step. !0i
An Illustrated Journal will be of great value
the cause of Spiritualism, for several reasons, I
instance:— ' J
1. Although standard literature and science have of 1
years given a great impetus to the Spiritual movement,]
power of art has not aided in the work.
2. Because deeply interesting manifestations, likel
recent materialisation phenomena, have been occurring
our midst, without the scenes being placed on red
pictorially. Experiments also, such as the photographi
of spirits by the magnesium and electric lights, and gaf
nometric experiments with entranced mediums, have!
Nov. 20, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
243
you are familiar with, and the time will never come
when they will be unnecessary. To some it will
always be requisite that such training should be
the commencement of their spiritual life. And none
can deny the wisdom of adapting means to ends,
but those who are unwise and narrow in the view they
take. The only danger is in substituting the physical
for the spiritual, and resting in it. It is but a means,
a valuable and indispensable means to some, which
is intended to eventuate in spiritual development.
So then, to confine ourselves to the more conspicuous
example which offends you—the rude, uncultured,
undeveloped spirit. Is the voice which cries to Him in
tones which sound so harsh, and which produces such
results, the’ voice of evil as you seem to fancy ?
With the question of evil we have dealt before
and shall deal again; but here we fearlessly say that,
save in cases readily discernible, and which bear on
their face the marks of their origin, it is not so.
Bvil there is enough, alas! nor will it cease till the
adversaries be overthrown, and the victory be complete.
We are far from denying or making light of the danger
which encompasses us and you; but it is not such as
you imagine. Hot everything ill-regulated, uncultured,
or rude is necessarily bad. Far from it! There is
little, very little there that is bad; while evil may lurk
where you least suspect it. Those struggling souls, so
young in their spiritual life, are learning to know that
an existence of infinite progression is before them, and
that their progress then depends on their mental, bodily,
and spiritual development now. So they try to care
for their bodies. In place of grovelling drunkards they
become enthusiastic abstainers from intoxicating drinks;
and in their zeal they would force the habit upon all.
They cannot discern nice shades of difference. And
frequently their zeal outruns their discretion. But is
the rabid enthusiast, with all his illogical reasonings
and his exaggerated utterances offensive to cultured
taste, is he a worse man spiritually than was the
loutish, loafing sot, whose mind was paralysed with
fiery drink, whose body was defiled with sensuality,
and whose moral and spiritual progress was utterly
checked by habitual intoxication ? You know that he
is not; that he is alive and awake to what he believes
to be his duty; that he is not the hopeless, aimless
creature that he was; that he has risen from the dead,
a resurrection which causes joy and thankfulness
amongst the angels of God. What if his cries lack in
logic what they gain in zeal and energy! They are
the voice of conviction, the cry of a spirit awaking
from the lethargy of death. There is more value,
friend, to us and to our God in the one earnest, honest
voice of a spirit struggling to make its new-found con¬
victions heard, more to gladden us in our mission, and
to cheer us on to renewed exertion than in the con¬
ventional, dreamy dilettante respectability which will
only utter its half convictions in the monotonous drawl
of decorous fashion, and will, moreover, be studious to
avoid even a whisper that may chance to be unpopular.
You say that popular or vulgar Spiritualism is un¬
desirable ; that its utterances are rude, and its tone
repellent. We tell you nay. Those who thus forcibly
state their convictions in terms not very exact and
polished come home to the masses far more than any
others could with polite and polished utterance. The
rough jagged stone shot from their sling with all the
rude energy of assured conviction, is more forcible than
the calculated utterance of the most cultured and
refined mind, whose words are measured by custom, and
toned down to the line of respectable moderation. Be¬
cause they are rough they are serviceable; and because
they deal with actual physical facts they come home to
minds which are incapable of discerning metaphysical
distinctions.
In the army of the spirit messengers there are
ministers spited to every want. There is for the hard
materialist who knows of nought but matter, the spirit
that can show him of an invisible force superior to
material laws. To the shrinking, timid soul which
cares not for great issues, so it can be assured of the
welfare of its own loved ones and of reunion with
them, there comes the voice of the departed, breath¬
ing in recognisable accents, the test needed for con¬
viction, or conveying assurance of reunion and of
affectionate intercourse in the hereafter. To the spirit
that is best approached through the avenues of the
mind by processes of logical argument, there comes the
voice that demonstrates external agency, evolves orderly
and sequential proof, and builds up by slow degrees an
edifice of conviction founded on indisputable fact. Aye,
and above all, to those who have passed beyond the
alphabet of spiritual agency, and who long to progress
further and further into the mysteries which are not
penetrable by the eye of sense, to such come teachers
who can tell of the deep things of God, and reveal to
the aspiring soul richer views of Him and of its
destiny. To each there is the suitable messenger and
the appropriate message, even as God has ever adapted
his means to the end in view.
Yet once again. Bemember that Spiritualism is not,
as was the Gospel message of old, a professedly external
revelation, coming from the spiritual hierarchy to man¬
kind ; proclaimed as a revelation, as a religion, as a
means of salvation. It is all this: but it is also other
than this. To you, and to such as approach it from
your point of view, it is this: but to the lowly and
suffering, the sorrow-laden and ignorant, it is other
far. It is the assurance of personal expectation of re¬
union ; an individual consolation, of private application
first of all. It is, in effect, the bridging over, for
divers purposes, of the gulf which separates the world
of sense from the world of spirit. With the disem¬
bodied as with the incarned, degrees of development
differ : and to the undeveloped man comes most readily
the spirit who is on his own mental plane. Hence it
is that manifestations vary in kind and in degree; and
that frequently enough the scum rises to the sur¬
face, and prevents you from seeing what is going on
beneath.
Could you see, as you now see, the signs which have
attended and followed similar movements in other age
of the world, you would not fall into the error of sup¬
posing that these signs are exclusively confined to our
mission. They are inherent in your human nature,
inseparable from anything which deeply stirs the heart
of man. They attended the mission of Hoses to the
Israelites of old, of the Hebrew Prophets, as well as of
the Christ. They have appeared at every fresh epoch
in the history of man, and they attend the present
development of divine knowledge. They are no more
a sample of our work than in your political history are
the ravings of the excited demagogue, of real and in¬
fluential political opinion.
You must distinguish: and to one who lives in the
midst of a great movement, it is not always easy to do
so. It will be easier when, in the time to come, you
244
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 20, 1874.
look back upon the struggle which is now seething
around you.
We shall have more to say in answer to you.
For the present—Farewell. + Impekator.
LIFE AND ITS LAWS FROM A SWEDENBORG!AN
POINT OF YIEW.
NO. III.
BY WILLIAM OXLEY.
I must that it will be seen and allowed by those who
have been interested in my former papers, that the philosophy
which I 'am attempting to elucidate, teaches, as a primary
axiom, that “ Life is the activity of Deity, who is the First
Form,” and that the First Form is the inmost of all forms
which also are recipients of that form. Between the First
Form, which is infinite, and all others which are finite, there
is no ratio; therefore, we affirm it to be unknowable, incon¬
ceivable, and incomprehensible : we only know that it is, from
the fact that “ its ” or ** His ” presence is manifested in the
infinite variety of forms created to receive it.
We have sufficient knowledge to discover a sharp dividing
line existing amongst these recipient forms of receptive life.
That line is drawn where the human form is embodied on
the earth plane; above it there are ascending scales of
existences, immeasurably above our present power of concep¬
tion, yet they each and all possess the human principle, and
are therefore human beings. This human principle is intel¬
lectuality, or the possession of an intelligence by the exercise
of which we may advance to the centre, towards the source
and origin of life, and stopped only by the still sharper line
that divides Deity, or life itself, from the first receptive, down
to the last receptive form of life. Below the earthly human
form ranges an infinite variety, composing the animal, vege¬
table, and mineral kingdoms, or divisions of nature.
A knowledge of this spiritual philosophy enables us to pene¬
trate within the veil, which is a covering for the human spirit,
while an inhabitant of earth, and there we discover that life
is continually inflowing, bringing in its current that which
had passed from the highest to the lowest of disembodied,
therefore spiritual human intelligence; this life force im¬
presses the embodied human earthly spirit, hence we ex¬
perience its presence and reception by the will faculty,
which becomes the subject of emotion, affection, or desire,
and then the intellectual faculty, which becomes the subject
of thought. This combined experience is termed “ con¬
sciousness.”
But if this were all, it would be tmconsciousness, therefore
the life current flows on and through man, and by a law to
which it is subject, it makes forms, lower, and outside man ;
reflecting and reacting in all the “ appearances ” by which he
is surrounded, the exact presentation of the life as it flows
and finds rest in the objects external to him. It is the reflec¬
tion and reaction of life from these external objects (the earth
or natural universe, and all that therein is), that causes to us
the consciousness of living or being.
There are ideas of life other than those expressed by the
objects of the animal, vegetable, and mineral divisions of
nature, which may be termed mathematical or geometrical;
thus the line, either continuous, or broken so as to assume
the angular shape, is used to express the variations of the
intellect When the line departs from the straight or angular,
it becomes curvilinear, the most perfect or beautiful shape of
which is the circle; this is used to express life, as to
the “ will principle, the receptacle of love; ” hence, the
circle is the most beautiful of all linear forms. This
is now demonstrated to be a fact by the researches of
a distinguished modern savant who discovering the most
minute material form of life in its apparent commencement,
and designated by him “ Protoplasm,” found it to be cellular
or cylindrical, which is circular and linear combined. These
figures or geometrical forms are not living, but only idealistic,
and as such, they are products of the human intellect, and the
result of voluntary action. But the life forms existing in
nature outside of, or external to, man, and with an apparent
independent life from him, are produced by a power altogether
above the sphere of his voluntary or involuntary action ; in
short, if an agent at all in their production, he is entirely
passive; this very passivity is the media by which the Infinite
or positive mind causes the creative energy or vital force to
flow through humanity and find rest, or a point of reaction
in the living organisms and inanimate forms by which we are
surrounded in nature.
All things in the universe subsist in the Infinite mind, or
first cause, and are the effects of that intelligence when brought
forth into existence. These two terms “ subsistence” and
“ existence” explain phenomenal appearances; they could not
exist or stand out appreciable to our senses, unless they first
subsisted in the Divine mind, corresponding to what we term
ideas. As illustrative of this, no work of man, such as a
building or a machine, could have any existence in fact, unless
it first subsisted in the mind. Some work of art, or, say,
some piece of mechanism is required for a specific purpose,
and forthwith, a thought as to how it is to be accomplished,
or an idea for its attainment is presented, then, the combina¬
tion of the will with its desire and determination, with the aid
of the intellect, accomplishes the proposed end, by bringing
the desired object into existence. But a question here arises,
“Whence came the thought? Where originated the idea?”
A reflective mind will here have abundant scope for contem¬
plation, and such will soon discover that he will have to look
elsewhere than merely to his own mind, for the source of his
thoughts and ideas. The fact that an elaborate design, or an
ingenious device is presented to his mind, in a moment it may
be, demonstrates that he is indebted to some higher power or
intelligence than his own, and he will also further discover
that he is only the medium employed by intelligences which
we call spiritual beings.
This illustration furnishes us with the key to discover the
law which operates in . creation, whereby the Infinite mind
produces all phenomenal worlds, giving to them an objective
reality, by the use of the substances proper to each. In the
spirit spheres they are spiritual substances, and in the natural
world they are material substances.
The difference between the action of the Infinite and finite
minds is this, that the Infinite mind produces living forms,
while the finite mind produces forms not living; thus it can
only make forms from matter which in itself is dead and
without life. As I have before stated, man is the first or
highest form of organic life that we know of on the earth,
and is in himself an image or a likeness of his Creator. He
is therefore a prototype of all living forms lower than himself.
Of all these forms the animal comes the next to the human
form, and of these the elephantine tribe may be classed as the
nearest to the human, because it evidences the vital principle
in its largest development. This species is shown by three
chief representatives, the elephant, rhinoceros, and the hip¬
popotamus. To each of these there are properties common
to all, viz., bulk, weight, ponderosity, and strength, with a
skin covering peculiarly thick and tough. Now the problem
before us is, to search for something in the human being that
can be outwardly expressed by these peculiarities, to which
they are analogous, or to which they correspond ? We find
their correlatives existing, not as to-physical bulk or strength,
but as spiritual qualities of the mind. In man it is the
enormous will power; hence it is common to use the phrase
“ a strong willed man.” The thickness and toughness of the
skin, when applied to the human spiritual correlative, are
evidenced by an utter absence of feeling as to the effects
which may follow to others, from such determined action of
his will; hence we say of a callous-hearted individual that he
is “ thick-skinned.”
There is also a significance in the configuration of the
animals referred to. The elephant is provided with two
enormous tusks, the rhinoceros with one only, while the
hippopotamus has none. This latter animal may be said to
represent the man of low sensual tastes, whose intelligence is
debased and subordinated to the mere gratification of his
lower propensities, which must be gratified at any cost. The
rhinoceros represents a similar class, but with some degree of
intelligence to guide him in the pursuit of these several
delights and pleasures. The elephant again represents those
who combine great strength of will with intelligence in pursuit
of whatever may be the aim of his gratification. As these
may be used for good or for evil purposes, because of this, we
find the elephant the only one of the three which can be
tamed or domesticated, and made useful and subservient to
mankind. In this animal must be noticed the trunk, with its
40,000 muscles, each having the power of distinct action; this
causes the sense of touch to be exquisitely developed; this
sense, coupled with the acute sense of hearing, as well as that
of smell, establishes the correctness of the principles that I
Nov. 20, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
245
have endeavoured to prove, as these three senses have a special
relation to the spiritual senses of the will faculty in man. *
Of the equine species of animals the horse and the ass are
domesticated and most useful to man, the zebra, the quagga,
&c., being untamable. Fleetness, and a remarkably developed
nervous system, are their most striking characteristics. These
find their correlative in the human being as temper; thus,
when we speak of a hot temper, a hasty temper, or a sensitive
disposition, we only use words to show the expression of the
will faculty. The canine species, manifesting a sagacity
almost approaching intelligence ; the feline tribes, with their
exposition of cunning and treachery; and the reptilinear species,
with their creeping and crawling habits, find their equivalents
in the human will, which will be seen at a glance.
If the principle of correspondence is something more than a
mere fancy, then the fact is established, that there must be some
design in the creation of animal, vegetable, and mineral forms.
When that design of Infinite wisdom is seen to comprehend
something more than the mere adaptation of these forms to con¬
serve and perpetuate their own life and species, then we have
a world of research opened, which will afford scope for the
exercise of the human intellect even for ages yet to come.
Wonderful as are the discoveries which this branch of
spiritual philosophy unfolds, there is still another which is the
crowning marvel of all; that is, the human body; within the
boundaries of its formation is centred a universe in miniature,
a knowledge of which, and of the spirit which is its true life,
along with the correspondence existing between the two, sup¬
plies us with the key that will solve all mysteries of life; to
this subject I may refer, with the editor’s permission, on a
future occasion.
'Higher Broughton, November 1st, 1874.
EXPERIMENTS IN MIND-READING.
On Monday afternoon, says a New Haven paper, Mr. J. E.
Brown, the “ Mind-reader,” met, by appointment, a number
of gentlemen in the philosophical lecture room of North
Sheffield Hall, for the purpose of exhibiting the peculiar
faculty possessed by him of receiving impressions from the
minds of others, under certain conditions. There were present
during part or all of the experiments, Profs. Thacher, Wright,
Wheeler, Fisher, Brewer, Lyman, Marsh, Walker, Whitney,
Johnson, Norton, and Clark, Ex-President Woolsey, Tutors
Phelps and Thacher, Mr. Thacher (a relative of Prof.
Thacher), and three or four ladies. Nine experiments were
tried, seven of which were entirely successful, and the other
two nearly so, in one of them entire success being impossible.
Notes were taken by Prof. Brewer of each experiment at the
time. The details are as follows :
Experiment 1,—Prof. Brewer passed from the lecture-room,
through the hall (out of which open five doors and two stair¬
ways) into another room, and from this into another, where
he placed on a theodolite in a corner a small article taken
from his pocket. He then went into the hall by another door,
then up stairs, then back through the two rooms, then down
stairs, and then returned to the lecture-room, where Mr.
Brown, blindfolded, first took hold of Mr. Brewer’s left hand,
in his own right, and then, after briefly placing his other hand
on Mr. Brewer’s forehead, and bringing Mr. Brewer’s hand to
his own forehead, apparently to establish mental connection,
suddenly started off, leading him at a rapid pace, through the
hall and the two rooms mentioned, directly to the article on
the theodolite, designating it as the object sought. There was
not the slightest hesitation as to which room to enter of the
many opening into the hall, nor as to the part of the room
where the object was placed, and no one but Mr. Brewer knew
what the article was. It was a pocket tape-measure in a brass
case, which, as it lay on the object end Of the telescope of the
theodolite, appeared to be a part of that instrument.
Experiment 2.—Mr. Brown went with Prof. Lyman into
another room, and while he was absent President Woolsey
concealed a coin beneath a book in a pile of books at the end
of a lecture table. Then going to the room where Mr. Brown
was, Mr. Brown, blindfolded, led him rapidly»to the lecture-
room, and, after trying one or two other places, went to the
vicinity of the books, bending over them, passing repeatedly
from one side of the table to the other, then going elsewhere,
but quickly returning to the same spot, as if particularly
attracted there, yet without actually finding the coin while
with President Woolsey. He then asked to try some one else
* The author points out analogies between things material and things
spiritual, but more evidence of eonnection between them in reality, would
be interesting.—Ed.
who knew where the article was. Putting himself en rapport
with Prof. Whitney, he led him directly to the spot, and
found the coin under the books. It should be observed that
in these experiments the person led is required to keep his
mind intently on the article, and on the place where he has
concealed it.
Experiment 3.—Mr. Brown again went out. (He left each
time in company with Prof. Lyman.) Then Prof. Fisher took
a pencil-case and gave it to Prof. Johnson and likewise left.
Prof. Johnson gave it to Prof. Thacher, and left the room
also. Then Prof. Thacher concealed it on the edge of a black¬
board, and took his seat among the persons in the room. The
last two who had gone out were recalled and took seats in
different places. Then Mr. Brown (blindfolded as before) led
in Prof. Fisher from another room and took him to Prof.
Walker, then took Prof. Walker to Prof. Johnson, and him in
turn to Prof. Thacher. In two of these cases he first led the
person to the gentleman next to the right one, and when told
he was wrong, immediately designated the right person. In
one of these cases the person led said the mistake was his
own, as he had inadvertently fixed his mind on the wrong
individual. With Prof. Thacher he failed to find the pencil,
although, as in the second experiment, he returned often to
the spot and closely searched the vicinity, seemingly attracted
towards it, and oscillating first to one side and then the other,
like a needle near a magnet. Requesting, then, to try with
some other person who knew what and where the article was,
he led Mr. Thacher directly to the right spot, and found the
pencil-case.
Experiment 4.-—An alphabet was written with chalk on a
blackboard. When Mr. Brown was out of the room, Prof.
Marshiwrote the word “ Bone ” on a slip of paper, and handed
it to another person. Mr. Brown returning, was blindfolded,
and taking Prof. Marsh’s hand, immediately pointed to the
four letters in succession.
Experiment 5.—Mr. Thacher was to “ think of a pain ” in
some definite part of his body. Mr. Brown seemed at first to
find much difficulty in locating the supposed pain, but at
length designated a spot just under the right nostril. The
right nostril itself was the locality intended by Mr. Thaoher.
Experiment 6.—One end of a copper wire twenty and a
half feet long was held by Prof. Lyman, the other by Mr.
Brown, the wire being slack. Mr. Brown (blindfolded, as in
all cases), after turning for a moment to a person seated near
by, went straight to a spot beneath the object on which Prof.
Lyman had fixed his thought, which was the clock, in a high
and (to Mr. Brown) inaccessible position. What he did find
was an article on a shelf within reach, and a few feet directly
beneath the clock.
Experiment 7.—Mr. Brown left the room. An inkstand was
placed in a certain position on the lecture-table. Prof. Fisher,
Prof. Wright, and Tutor Phelps, took hold of one end of the
wire before mentioned, and Mr. Brown, blindfolded, of the
other end. Very soon, and without mistake, he found the ink-
stand, having passed around the end of the table, which was
then between him and the three gentlemen, the wire being
slack and partly on the floor.
Experiment 8.—Mr. Brown was blindfolded, not only with
the bandage previously used (thick and sufficient of itself), but
two handkerchiefs in addition. He then repeated the spelling
experiment. With Prof. Fisher the word “ Halls ” was spelled,
which Prof. Fisher had previously written and handed to Prof.
Lyman on a slip of paper folded. The only mistake was that
when he had indicated the third letter he said, “ That is all.”
When told there were more he correctly pointed out the other
two.
Experiment 9.—With Prof. Thaoher, he, in the same way,
spelled “Enke,” the name of Prof. Thaoher’s landlord in
Berlin many years ago. This was done correctly, but more
slowly than in the other cases. In each case the person was
to fix not only his thought, but his eye, on each letter in suc¬
cession.
These nine experiments, interspersed with conversation,
occupied an hour and forty minutes. It is believed that all
present considered the experiments performed with perfect
fairness and honesty. Mr. Brown promised nothing that he
did not successfully perform. His bearing was modest and
entirely unpretending
In the evening, at the house of Prof. Lyman, a few experi¬
ments were tried, which were in some respects more striking
than those of the afternoon, especially in the celerity and
energetic accuracy of their performance. Blindfolded as
before, he led a member of the family directly to a particular
book in a remote part of the parlour. This was the object
246
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 20, 1874.
really thought of. He also designated correctly a particular
picture thought of by another person, as the leaves of the
album containing it were turned over. A son of Prof. Lyman,
who had fixed his thought on a milk-pitcher standing among
the other dishes on the tea-table in the dining-room, Mr.
Brown led, almost on a run, from the parlour, through the
hall, into the dining-room, and placed his hand instantly
on the pitcher, without the least hesitation, or touching
any other article. There were four other directions
in which he might have gone in coming from the parlour,
instead of into the dining-room. Immediately afterwards
(blindfolded as before) he rushed the same person, almost
with violence, out of ;the parlour, through the hall, upstairs to
a landing out of which opened six rooms, all with the doors
wide open, and without stopping an instant, went, directly
into one of the rooms and straight to the bureau, designating
correctly the second drawer as the place where the article
thought of was hid, which was a visiting card placed there
before tea for the purpose. The gas was not lighted at the
time in the upper hall, nor in any of the chambers, and the
room in question was quite dark, the little light reflected up
from the lower hall but dimly lighting the upper hall; yet
there was no stumbling (except once, accidentally, in the
rapid running upstairs), and no hesitation in going to the
bureau in the dark room, though the person was rather dragged
than led to the spot. These four experiments occupied not
more than ten or fifteen minutes in all.
In all the experiments the quickness and energy of Mr.
Brown’s movements were particularly noticeable, as well as
his ability to move thus rapidly, while blindfolded, among
persons, furniture, and up and down steps, without stumbling
or collision. After some of the experiments he was in a
state of perspiration, and seemed considerably exhausted.—
New York Times, Oct. 17th.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
NEXT.Monday night, at the special Council meeting of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, the first business
to be considered will be the propositions moved by Mr.
Webster Glynes, solicitor, and seconded by Mr. G. N. Straw-
bridge, “that the following be added to the constitution and
rules of the British National Association next, after article
II., viz.:—
XXa.—That no debt or liability to pay any sum of money be incurred,
nor any contract or engagement whatsoever be entered into, by or on
behalf of the Association, or the Council thereof, unless the same shall
first have been submitted to the Council at some monthly meeting,
and sanctioned by a resolution of the majority of the members present
thereat.
XXb.—Thatno such debt or liability,contract or engagement, be sanctioned
by the Council unless it shall appear from the statement of the Treasurer’s
account that, after making deduction for all liabilities then existing, a
sufficient balance shall be actually in his hand to meet the expenditure pro¬
posed to be incurred.
XXc.—That if any debt or liability be incurred, or any contract or
engagement entered into contrary to the beforegoing rules, then the person
or persons so incurring or entering into the same, shall be personally liable
for the discharge and satisfaction thereof.
XXd.—That a statement of the financial position of the Association be
laid before the Council at every monthly meeting.
The general tendency of these rules is to secure the per¬
manency of the Association, which, as we have often pointed
out, will always exert a most beneficial influence in Spirit¬
ualism so long as it is known to be durable, even should it
have no money income at all. It is a representative body of
Spiritualists not connected with any commercial interest or
with any of the newspapers, consequently is a most useful
instrument in the hands of independent Spiritualists, not only
for making their wishes known, but for giving them practical
effect.
The proposed Buie XXb requires serious consideration,
since, as it stands, it will prevent the Association from
taking a lease of premises, even were the annual income of the
Association £300 and the rent of the premises £100 a year,
and although it is unanimously felt that the Association must
have a home of its own without delay. Hence Mr. Joy was
right at the last meeting in deprecating hasty legislation, and
perhaps it would be well to take even a fortnight after next
Monday’s debate to consider these rules, and their relation to
the plans of the Finance Committee about offices. There is
no difficulty on the part of any sound organisation in getting
money enough to raise a large public building; the Birkbeck
Society has thousands of pounds more than it knows what to
do with, available for building purposes; if ever the National
Association saw that it was amply strong enough to get a hall
of its own in this way, and to clear off the expense by annual
instalments, to what extent would the proposed rules interfere
with its freedom of action ? All these questions require deli¬
berate consideration.
We believe that there is 'a strong feeling afloat that Mr.
Blyton, who in the hardest times made the Dalston Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists a self-supporting organisation, is the
right man to be manager of the establishment. He is now
the accountant to the Locomotive Department of the North
London Railway, and in the secretary’s office of that important
company has gained large experience in the best methods of
conducting public business. Obtaining his assistance is a ques¬
tion of expense; probably, as in all other things, good work is
the most economical in the long run; at all events his energy
would go far towards making any undertaking self-supporting,
as was the case at Dalston.
AN EMINENT MEDIUM DRAMATIST.
BY BEXJAMIX COLEMAN".
The Paris correspondent of the Times of the 16 th
inst. makes the following remarks :—
Much interest has been excited in the literary world by the
announcement of a new drama by M. Yictorien Sardou, La
Haine, which will be performed next Saturday at the Gaite
Theatre. M. Sardou is one of the ablest playwrights in France.
Every piece he writes attracts much notice. It is stated that
La Haine will be among his most characteristic plays, and it
will certainly give rise to warm discussions. The author, it is
understood, has just concluded an arrangement with a London
manager, so that the piece will be played simultaneously in
French and English.
“ "When did you ever get a thought from the spirit-
world worthy of record?” is a question often asked
with a sceptical sneer!
The Times correspondent has unwittingly answered
it. He speaks of M. Sardou as one of the ablest play¬
wrights in France, but he does not qualify the state¬
ment by announcing, because perchance he does not
believe it, that M. Sardou himself disclaims the merit
of being the author of any of his plays. Like that very
remarkably gifted lady, Mrs. Tappan, whose discourses
are far above her natural mental powers, Sardou
takes the same position before the dramatic world.
After the celebrated play of his, La Famille Be-
noiion played before the French Court at Com-
piegne in 1865, he, in answer to the lavish compli¬
ments bestowed upon him, modestly declined to accept
them as being due to himself, and he declared that not
a line of his comedy was the genuine 'production of his own
brain, but that it was altogether inspired by the spirits
of departed dramatic celebrities with whom he is in
constant communication, and that the production of it,
and others written through his own hand, had cost him
no mental effort.
I recommend all Spiritualists to make a note of this
fact, and produce it in answer to the stereotyped ques¬
tion of cui bono with which a discomfited adversary
always closes the argument.
Upper Norwood, Nov. 16, 1874.
The accounts published in The Spiritualist by Mrs. Ross-
Church and by the editor, of the farewell seance with Miss
Cook’s “Katie King,” have been translated and reprinted in
Psychische Studien (Leipzig), for the benefit of German
readers.
Mr. William Oxley, who chanced before publication
to see the specimen page issued this week, has entered his
name for forty copies per month of the proposed journal.
Should this example be largely followed, the spiritual move¬
ment will soon be represented by the handsomest periodical
published in the world. Those who do not intend to give very
extensive support, would materially aid in making the maga¬
zine an accomplished fact by ordering not less than ten per
month.
24?
Nov. 20, 1874. THE SPIRITUALIST.
Hebieto.
The Honeymoon", by Count do Medina Pomdr, author
of Estudios Acerca del Progreso del Espiritu. London:
Triibner & Co., 1874. [Second Notice.]
A long series of letters by the “ Countess of C ”
is appended to the second volume of Count Pom&r’s
philosophical romance The Honeymoon, a book which
contains much interesting thought on the highest
problems connected with the philosophy of existence.
In the appended letters the doctrines of Allan Kardec,
which have made such progress among Spiritualists on
the Continent, are set forth at some length. The
following, in. a few woijds, appear to be the leading
principles or speculations propounded in the letters :—
1. There exists throughout the universe a formative
or spiritual principle, which controls matter, and
determines the class, quality, and form of all living
things, in obedience to the action of the Divine thought,
the method of operation of which is necessarily wholly
incomprehensible to man.
2. This formative principle depends upon matter for
its individualisation and manifestation, but itself is
entirely separate and distinct from matter. But it can
be clothed with certain imponderable attractive forces,
which act upon atoms of matter. Every state of the
Normative principle, determines corresponding states of
the attractive forces, which in their turn produce
corresponding aggregations of atoms of matter.
3. Thus, matter and spirit, linked together by impon¬
derable forces which act upon both, build up all animal,
vegetable, and mineral forms upon the face of the
earth.
4. The envelope of imponderable forces constitutes
the spirit body or perisprit. The individualised spirit
or perisprit can move independently of time and space,
and, under certain conditions, clothe itself tempo¬
rarily with matter, as in the formation of spirit hands
at seances.
5. The function of matter is to educate spirit. The
lower spirits crave for an alliance with that matter by
which they have been partially educated, so incur the
punishment of a return to that animality; this is not
an arbitrary punishment, but in accordance with Divine
law. Matter temporarily limits and chains down the
faculties of the soul, and our fleshly organs are not the
only and most powerful instruments of perception, as
the phenomena of mesmerism and clairvoyance amply
prove.
6. The time arrives at lagt when the spirit, by work¬
ing off its sins, and gaining experience in successive
existences in different bodies, frees itself from further
direct alliance with matter, and progresses in love and
wisdom in altogether higher states of spiritual exist¬
ence.
Eoustaing, one of the leading advocates of Allan
Hardee’s doctrines, says of the spirits who fail to free
themselves from matter, and have to return to some
earth or other to work out their own salvation -
The spirits who fail, exert their activity and intelligence in
the state of incarnation. They have not only to provide for
their life and well-being, thereby ameliorating the material
condition of the worlds they inhabit, which is the material
portion of their mission ; but they have also to work out their
moral and material advancement, and as they progress them¬
selves, to aid the moral and intellectual developement of the
less advanced humanities that people the material globes.
To material incarnation, as a chastisement necessary to ex¬
piation and progress, succeed incarnations in progressively
higher and higher worlds, and of a character less and less
material (for matter ever follows the progress of spirit), be¬
coming more and more fluidic ; until the spirit (through the
elevation it has acquired, disengaged from all contact with
flesh) returns to the higher regions of existence, learning on
the one hand, and instructing on the other.
We do not know whether the six statements of the
case published above fairly represent the views of the
three authors, Lady C—, Miss Anna Blackwell, and
Eoustaing, whose writings are mixed up in the letters.
Words, which have definite unalterable meanings in
science, such as “ fluid” and “ magnetism,” are applied
to things which are not fluids and are not magnetism,
which confuses readers as much as if the word “ red”
were constantly used for <f green,” and “yellow” for
“blue,” and the speaker good-naturedly remarked, “ I
know you artists do not mean what I mean by the
words, but I intend to use them thus, after giving you
this explanation.” The result is that men of science
who habitually avoid error by attaching clear meanings
to definite words, will be much confused when honestly
attempting to seize the ideas of some of the writers,
and if they chance to be in the least prejudiced against
the subject will give up the attempt. Another reason
why the problems as set forth throw avoidable mental
strain upon new comers who strive to grasp them,
is the order in which they are arranged. A first
principle is mentioned in immediate proximity to
secondary principles, to details, and to arguments, so
that the leading points can only be gathered after
reading through many pages in which all these different
items are mixed up. Whereas, if the heads of the
philosophy were in one short chapter, to give the in¬
quirer a bird’s-eye view of the whole case | if the
secondary points were in the next chapter ; and if the
arguments were confined to the third, and if all the
paragraphs were consecutively numbered and bore rela¬
tion to the same numbers in all the chapters, then the
mental labour of readers would be saved. Scientific
text-books are issued in this form; see Dr. Balfour
Stewart’s Elementary Treatise on Heat, and Lockyer’s
Elementary Astronomy.
Are the hypotheses as to the nature of living beings
true? A reliable answer can only be given after a
long appeal to the courts of fact and experiment. The
various forces in nature are not material, but forms of
energy; the new hypotheses assume that some of them
can be influenced by mind on the one side, and they, as
is well known, exert an influence upon matter on the
other. If any of the imponderable forces known to
man have anything to do with linking the intelligent
part of himself to matter, possibly demonstration is not
hopelessly beyond the range of experiment. Does
ordinary electricity take any part in the work ? It is
known to have the power of transferring atoms of
matter, as in electro-plating, and as it is busily at work
in the nerves, and Various parts of animal and vegetable
organisms, it may be doing the same there. Some of
the followers of Allan Kardec say that “ magnetism ”
enters into the nature of the perisprit; they seem to
mean an attractive force of some kind, but if they
mean actual magnetism, it is an error; very few
magnetic substances enter into the composition of the
human body, which is consequently strongly diamagnetic;
the human body is not only not attracted by the magnet,
but if a horseshoe magnet could be made large enough,
and a horizontal human body be suspended so as to turn
freely between its poles, it would be repelled, and place
itself at right angles to the line joining the poles.
248
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Hov. 20, 1874.
It is an interesting question whether electricity has
anything to do with the production of spirit raps, which
manifestly originate with some imponderable force,
governed hy intelligence. Mr. Yarley, Mr. Blackburn,
and Mr. Harrison once tried to determine this point by
experiment with very delicate instruments; the spirit
raps were kindly given hy the invisibles when and
where wanted, but no indications of electrical disturb¬
ance were obtained; still, all the methods of experi¬
ment in this direction, have not yet been exhausted.
There is no good evidence that any electricity is
given off hy the human body, at the ends of the fingers,
or elsewhere, though there is plenty at work in closed
circuits within it. Sometimes, with exquisitely'sensi¬
tive instruments, feeble indications have been obtained,
hut these have usually been traced to chemical action
between the hands and the electrodes, or to the friction
of the clothes against the outside of the body; a single
gentle brush with a feather down the hack of the person
touching the instruments produces a great deflection.
If any electricity is naturally given off by the human
body, it is So small in amount that the reality of the
fact is open to grave question.
Then as to the hypothesis of reincarnation—where
is the evidence in support of it ? If the authority of
the teachings of spirits is quoted, when, where, and
under what conditions'were the messages given? To
what extent were they unconsciously coloured by the
minds of the mediums, and of the strong-willed persons
present ? (See the experiments on thought-reading in
another column.) If spirits have in unbiassed circles
taught these doctrines in France, why have they not
done so in England ?
To show how the ideas of diverse thinkers may be
made to fit on to each other when couched in language
mutually understandable, the following portion of an
article by Mr. James Croll on What Determines Mole¬
cular Motion ? is quoted from The Philosophical Maga¬
zine of July, 1872. The Philosophical Magazine is the
oldest and most orthodox of all the English scientific
monthly periodicals, and is filled with articles by the
chief scientific men of the day; Nature is their chief
weekly newspaper
Whatever may be one’s opinions regarding the doctrine of
Final Causes and the evidence of design in nature, all must
admit the existence of the objective idea in nature. We see
everywhere not only exquisite order and arrangement in the
structure of plants and animals, but a unity of plan pervading
the whole. We see, in endless complexity, beauty, and sim¬
plicity, the most perfect adaptation of means to ends. The
advocates of the physical theory are at least bound to show
how it is probable that this exquisite arrangement and unity
of plan could have been produced by means of chemical and
physical agencies.
Let us briefly consider what really has to be explained and
accounted for. Take, say, the leaf of a tree. The leaf is not
moulded by some external agency into its particular shape,
but is built up molecule by molecule. The form and structure
of the leaf is the result of the arrangement and disposition of
the particles of which it is composed. The thing to be accounted
for is not what moves the molecules or particles in its forma¬
tion, but what guides, directs, or determines the motion
of these particles. The leaf could not be formed did not
each particle move in the right direction and stop at the
proper time and at the proper place. Each molecule occupies
its own special position in the leaf; consequently no two
molecules in moving to their positions can take the same path.
What, then, determines the particular path for each molecule ?
or rather, what determines the motion of each molecule along
its particular path? The mere motion of the molecules is
produced by force ; but what directs or determines this force
to move each particle along its special path ? Eut the mystery
is deeper still. Not only are the paths of the molecules dif¬
ferent, but they must all be adjusted in relation to one another;
for it is to the proper adjustment of the paths that the form of
the leaf is due. In other words, the motion of each molecule
must be determined according to the objective idea of the
leaf.
But the whole tree is built up of molecules, as well as the
leaf. The molecules which form the branch must be dif¬
ferently determined from the molecules forming the leaves;
and each molecule of the branch must take a path different
from all the other molecules of the branch; but the motions
of all the molecules must be determined according to the
objective idea of the branch. What holds true of one branch
holds true of all the other branches; and what holds true of
the branches holds equally true of the trunk, and of the roots,
and of the whole tree. Each particle must be determined not
only in relation to the objective idea of the particular leaf or
the particular branch to which it belongs, but in relation to
the objective idea of the tree. In the formation of the tree
each molecule must move along its special path, but the paths
must be so adjusted to one another that a tree shall be the
result. Eut this is not all; the molecules must move and
adjust themselves in relation to the idea of a tree of a special
kind. The molecules forming, say, an oak tree, must move
in relation to one another in a different way from those
forming a beech tree or a pine. Eut however diversified may
be the motions of the molecules in the different species
of trees, yet, notwithstanding, all must move in relation to
the general idea of a tree. And what holds true of trees holds
equally true of every form of plant-life on the globe. And
what holds true of the vegetable kingdom holds equally true of
the animal kingdom. Each plant and each animal has not
only its own particular form, but it has the form of the species
to which it belongs—and not only this, but the form of the
genus to which the species belongs—and not only the form of
the genus, but the form of the family, order, class, and kingdom
to which the genus belongs.
Taking, therefore, the entire molecular movements going on
in the organic world, animal and vegetable, we may classify
the determination of these movements into kingdoms, classes,
orders, fanailies, genera, and species, in the same way as we
classify the plants and animals which are the result of
these determinations of molecular motion. This is obvious,
because this order and unity which the botanist and the com¬
parative anatomist find pervading nature, owes its existence
to the order and unity which exist amongst the determina¬
tions of molecular movements. A plant or an animal of a
particular species and a particular class exists simply because
the molecules of which it is formed had their motions deter¬
mined according to the objective idea of a plant or of an
animal (as the case may be) of the particular species and class.
This is not asserting anything hypothetical; it is simply
stating what actually takes place ; for to say that the molecules
of which a tree, for example, is composed, must have had
their motions determined according to the objective idea of a
tree, is just the same thing as saying that the molecules of
which a tree is composed must have had their (motions deter¬
mined in relation to an object of the figure of a tree. In
nature we have a unity of plan pervading the endless diversity
that everywhere prevails, simply because the endless and the
almost infinite diversity of molecular movements take place
according to a unity of plan.
Count Pomdr intelligently recognises thepoint that if
particular parts of the spirit body, cover themselves by
means of attractive forces, with particular kinds of
matter only, those atoms must have something in
common with those parts of the spirit body, hence in his
recent article in these pages he assumes the existence
of ‘ ‘ spiritual atoms,” possessing no weight or materiality,
but performing certain functions within the spirit body.
Altogether The Honeymoon is an interesting book,
and it is pleasing to be able to state that a cheap edition
of it is about to be issued.
Soiree at Gosweli Hall.—Next Thursday, at seven
o’clock, there will be a soiree at Goswell Hall, 86, Goswell-
road, London, in recognition of the aid given to the cause of
Spiritualism by Mrs. Eullock, who for a long time has de¬
livered a series of trance addresses, at Sunday meetings, to
which the public were admitted without charge. Mr. John
Haxby also worked most energetically to carry on these
meetings.
Nov. 20, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
249
SPIRITUAL ANTHROPOLOGY AT LIVERPOOL.
At a recent soiree given to the president and founder of the
Liverpool Free Discussion Society, in Farnworth-street, West
Derby-road, Liverpool, by the members and friends of that
Association resident in Lancashire and Cheshire, Dr. William
Hitchman, inter alia, made the following remarks on the
science of flesh and spirit in regard to modern Spiritualism :—
“ Forms of motion, whether called heat, light, electricity, or
magnetism, are in my opinion the active powers of life,
health, disease, and death, throughout all the molecular pro¬
cesses known to the student of organic science. As in molecu¬
lar, so in crystalline forces, these endless changes of mystery
and wonder to mankind are all due to the simple regular play
of atoms, in form of germs and molecules, from the carbonic
acid and ammonia of the atmosphere, which become dissolved
in the dew and rain, and are then absorbed by living vegetables,
to the temperature of the blood, frequency of pulse, and
number of respirations in men and animals. In fact, there is
a perpetual action going on, a natural if not necessary oxy¬
genation or combustion, which tends to reduce both monarch
and mendicant to those very elements which were originally
derived from the air he breathes, and given to vegetables, in
form of water, carbonic acid, and ammonia, in a word, ashes.
Truth to tell, it cannot be said with justice, that even the
scientific principles of dust are formed by man, since dried fish
and blood give exactly the same equivalents as protoplasm;
while the oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon, aye, the nitrogen
also, even of proteine—-the real nutritive constituent of animal
organisation—exist ready formed for our use in the kingdom
of vegetables. Such is flesh! What is spirit ? I hold * spirit ’
to be neither more nor less than life in higher, better, and
more durable forms. By chemical action, for example,' I can
develope a galvanic current and then change its force or faculty
from galvanism to magnetism; afterwards it may be a mode
of motion called heat, so slight at first'as to be almost imper¬
ceptible to your finger, next into a temperature so intensely
high as to make even platinum wire itself first red-hot, then
most brilliantly luminous, like an angel of light, as it were,
from the “ seventh heaven,” again transformed and entirely
liquefied by the further intensity of its molecular action.
Indeed you observe that my original galvanic current is now
metamorphosed—if one may speak poetically, after the manner
of a licentious Roman of the Augustan age, into light—an
illumination more bright and beautiful than sun, moon, or
stars, as it reaches this our planet earth, and each ray of this
light, if suffered merely to fall on a plate of glass, the portion
of ray which is reflected at an angle of 56 degrees 45 minutes,
will be found to have undergone a change of plane of vibration
to such an extent as to have acquired thereby certain import¬
ant and valuable properties, which it did not before possess.
Philosophers call it polarisation. Now organic life in human
nature is precisely analogous. The body of a medium, or
sensitive, is, to the seer, beautifully luminous over the whole
surface when under spirit control, reminding one of that splen¬
did light seen by clairvoyants to emanate from the axis of a
crystal, or its north pole especially. Again, by that spirit-
power called mental force by exclusive materialists, I produce
once more that muscular motion which originally set that
previous magnetic arrangement in operation. Depend upon
it there is continuity of life from matter to spirit. The
chemical force of digestion is enough for life of body, but not
for life of soul. To the latter department of existence we pass
by community of sensation, and somnambulic lucidity.”
As the National Association of Spiritualists has an
accumulation of business on its hands, at the close of the
special work next Monday the meeting will be made ordinary,
and the usual business proceeded with.
Me. Algeenon Jot has left for Switzerland for a month,
on private business of his own, so letters intended for the
National Association should be sent during his absence to
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road,Notting-hill, London, W.
Mieaeles Wanted.—At a service held in East Brent
Church, Weston-Super-Mare, the Rev. Henry Denison, the
nephew of the Archdeacon of Taunton, said he could not
recognise Wesleyan teachers as Gospel ministers unless they
could show by working a miracle they had been sent from God.
He cautioned members of the Church against attending the
preaching houses of Wesleyans or Baptists, as by so doing
they encouraged men who called themselves ministers, which
was not true, and partook of a sin called “ schism.” The
Church clergy, he maintained, were the direct descendants and
representatives of the apostles.—Daily Telegraph.
(Emeaprmtinice.
[Qreat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
ME. JOHN STTJAET MILE ON IMMOETAllTY.
Sib,—As many of your readers may not have seen Mr. John
Stuart Mill’s Essay on Theism,1 should like to call their atten¬
tion to the following passage, which occurs in the chapter on
immortality: “ If there be a future life, it will be at least as
good as the present, and will not be wanting in the best feature
of the present life, improvability by our own efforts. Nothinp
can be more opposed to every estimate we can form of proba¬
bility, than the common idea of a future life as a state
of rewards and punishments, in any other sense than that
the consequences of our actions upon our own character and
susceptibilities will follow us in the future as they have done
in the past and present. Whatever be the probabilities of a
future life, all the probabilities in case of a future life are that
such as we have been made or have made ourselves before the
change, such we shall enter into the life hereafter; and that
the fact of death will make no sudden break in our spiritual
life, nor influence our character any otherwise than as any
important change in our mode of existence may always be
expected to modify it.”
If proof were needed that the teachings of Spiritualism on
this subject are eminently rational, it might be found in the
fact that on the assumption ‘of a future life Mr. Mill has
expressed his readiness to accept them.
Tuesday, Nov. 17th. F. W. P.
[Spiritualism was brought under the notice of Mr. J. Stuart (Mill by
so me. of his private friends, and he knew something of its leading
ideas.—Ed.]
THE MTSTEEIOTTS MAN.
Sib,—I do not think it difficult to explain the case Mr.
Dunphy relates in this week’s number of The Spiritualist.
The lady seems to be both a medium and a visionary, and
subject to relapse, consciously or unconsciously,'into a nervous
condition, suitable to and inducing the vision. That the same
impression should repeat itself is a common circumstance.
Her being a medium would account for the noise and the open¬
ing of the door, unless that too were merely an impression or
a vision also, so to speak, all the senses being subject to illu¬
sions. An illusion such as that in the crowd has often oc¬
curred to me ; for instance, in Regent-street once, I thought
my old friend Sir Edwin Landseer was just in front, approach¬
ing me, about a dozen yards off. I had no doubt about it,
and I have remarkably good sight; but on nearer approach I
started with surprise to find that the person had not the
slightest resemblance to my friend. A little further on, to my
surprise again, I met Sir Edwin in reality, and concluded that
his near approach and our great intimacy had caused a rapport,
and hence the impression which I had transferred to the other
person near, as events cast their shadows before. The lady, fall¬
ing into a sort of waking trance at the seances, shows the state
of the case very clearly, as what we may call dream-waking, so
also does the vivid sight at a glance ” of every fold of the
dress,” notwithstanding the fear. Now the most wonderful
thing to me in my dreams towards morning, is that I see
things more distinctly and entirely than I can see realities when
awake; every shade, colour, and form, the patterns of the carpet,
the paper, and all the articles in a room, in every particular,
and all at once as a vital or mental photograph; some¬
what as you see all the particulars of a landscape in a
moment under a flash of lightning, and I have often got up on
waking with the impression still vivid, then fading away.
I have painted what I have seen, without anything wanting in
any single particular of shade, or form, or colour, whereas in
painting a real object,-one has to keep looking up at the
object every moment, until the painting is finished. May we
not be clairvoyant in our dreams, and be actually viewing
reality, and with a clearer and freer vision 1 All this may
throw some light on the how and whence, in respect to
drawing mediums, and much else. When a boy about ten,
I so distinctly saw a figure sitting at the end of my bed, that
I cried and I screamed till they came into my room, and the
figure seemed to slip away. I could draw the figure now.
Another instance—on the death of my excellent friend, Sir
Herbert Compton, I was at home writing a note of sympathy
to his daughter, and on looking up there was Sir Herbert, as
clear as reality, but in the air about three yards before me and
for about a minute. I will say no more, but that we must not
allow strong convictions and pet theories to blind us to realities
250.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
and to distinctions, or we are soon lost in folly and fanaticism ;
with this question of spirits we should be doubly cautious, and
weigh the whole of the facts to draw distinction by induction
and analysis, and by the light of analogies, or we shall be
attributing everything to spirits, as it were out of pure idleness
and impatience. “ Give me a man who can divide and define,”
says Plato, “ and I will call him a god.”
Henry G. Atkinson.
18, Quai de la Douane, Boulogne-sur-Mer,
Nov. 16th, 1874.
AN AUSTEIAIT ARTICLE ON SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—In the New Free Press (Neue Freie Presse) of Vienna,
Oct. 22nd, is a long, beautifully-written article, which points
out the bright prospects once opening to me from my talents,
and then consigns them to the grave of oblivion, I having
turned to Spiritualism! Of course the gist of all is a terrible
blow at our creed, or rather our facts, but directed chiefly at
me, by the help of the most shameless misrepresentations,
governed by an exhibition of such profound stupidity, that I
feel both deeply grieved and ashamed of my countryman, who
is otherwise justly esteemed for his eminent talents. I con¬
sidered our long conversation quite confidental, and was sur¬
prised to see it thus published. He makes me say, “ I gave
up music to study Spiritualism,” whilst I most plainly told
him that a nervous disorder caused by over-work forced me to
lay my violoncellb aside for a time. He says I am “ president
of the great Spiritualists’ Society” here, of which I am not
even a member! The theories I pointed out as ■proposed,
must be my own, and then he points but a fault in spelling
(indirect writing), which is a downright untruth. The photo¬
graphs, he says are all bosh, because ill-defined, and so he
brawls out in a rage, but so artistically and ably penned, that
the whole German lot here is in a blaze, like a vast herd of
geese and other animals. But now for the explosion of his
wit in describing a public seance with Mr. Williams. The
downward shooting lights, he explains, are produced by phos¬
phorus fixed to the ceiling,' dissolving by the warmth. The
horizontal moving lights are little flies, with phosphorous
attached, set free out of a box by a confederate who must be
there. All my previous statements about private seances,
where the medium goes alone into other houses, are entirely
ignored, to fit up his story. How do the poor flies go back
into the box, or avoid landing on the noses of the sitters ?
What a jolly fly-catching seance the next will be, after this
glorious exposure! I feel quite sad at seeing a clever, far-
famed man committing himself so absurdly, but find some ex¬
planation in the readiness with which people here take such
rubbish. Not very encouraging that, after trying to promote
investigation. The cleverness here is sometimes terrible, and
infallibilities we have in lots—they need not look into matters,
but adjust their spectacles and coolly tell you it is all imagina¬
tion ; but the fact is, they are afraid now there may be truth,
and do not like to expose their folly by investigating instead
of talking and brawling. Christian Beimers.
Ducie Avenue, Manchester.
EEIN CARNATION,
Sir,—At a recent seance of Messrs. Bastian and Taylor,
when we had the voices in unusual power, George Fox (not
the Quaker), one of their controlling spirits, in answer to our
inquiries, gave some rather extraordinary information upon
reincarnation. Thinking the substance of his remarks worthy of
preservation, and fearing to trust my memory, I asked if he
would come and control me to write what he had said. He
promised he would, and in a few' days I had a visit from him.
Below is his communication, in which he has embodied the
substance of what he said at the circle, with much more than
I expected to have obtained from him. I beg leave to say
that in giving the communications of spirits I do not endorse
all they say: sometimes ideas diametrically opposed to my
own are given. I am learning, however, as well as others, and
I should be sorry to be an obstruction to the spirits in their
efforts to have a free expression of thought for our enlighten¬
ment. Catherine Woodforde,
“ In our world men are still studying God. In Him is con¬
tained all knowledge. The sole purpose of our existence is to
know Him, and, knowing Him, to possess Him. To know a
wise and beautiful being is to love him ; to know God is to
love Him, and therefore in some degree to possess Him. It
is the nature of God’s creatures, implanted in them by their
Father, to desire to be like unto Him. I may say it is the
necessity of human existence to be like unto God, for the
Hov. 20, 1874.
nearer a human being approaches to a resemblance of the
Creator, the higher happiness he tastes in the perfection of his
own nature. ‘ In His image and likeness created He them.''
God is an incomprehensible mystery to finite minds: the
lower the mind the greater the groping after God. In God’s
works only do we find Him, and there only can we study Him,
Men in the spirit-world, or in the highest heavens, I may
truly say, are studying and seeking God as well as men on
earth. The only difference is that the higher you go in the
spirit-world, the clearer comprehension and conception you
obtain of God. In the spirit-world, as here, theories more or
less plausible, and more or less approaching truth are con¬
stantly being formed for the solving of certain problems of
creation. Spirits are free to follow out their own researches
in their own way. They are not always willing to accept
the teachings of the higher spirits. These are submitted
to discussion, and if they prove unacceptable to their rea¬
soning faculties they are rejected. There are minds in our
world of so imperious and dogmatic a type that they are a
long time in being convinced of a truth, and sometimes do not
change through the lapse of ages Of your time. These hard,
dogmatic types of mind collect about them vast numbers of
followers, who are imbued with the ideas of their leaders.
They number, frequently, millions. It is conceivable, then,
how great a power they must wield in the universe of mind.
Hence it is not surprising that their theories, when imparted
to mankind, should appear to be confirmed almost universally
from the spirit-world. This is the case with the doctrine of
reincarnation. To myriads of spirits it is a truth, confirmed,
as they suppose, by everything they have experienced, or are
to experience. But to many more myriads it is an utter
fallacy. I happen to belong to the last category. From my
own experience, I know of but one reincarnation : namely, of
those infants, or germs of human souls, which, having been
conceived of woman, fail, from accident or disease, to arrive at
a condition of conscious life. Such are preserved by the
highest angels for reconception; for, having possessed no soul-
identity, they have none to lose ; having had no separate con¬
scious existence, there is nothing to be repeated in their case.
And yet the creation'of a human being had been commenced ;
the human spirit, or a germ of human life, had been incor¬
porated. And so sacred to the angels is such an expression
of the Divine Will, that they never suffer any to be lost
or dissipated. The angels are the ministers of God; His
spirit permeates them, and acts through them; they know
His will as it were their own. They, therefore, discharge
towards the human race many offices unknown to mortals,
and also to the lower spheres of spirits. This is one of their
holy ani blessed offices. These unconscious soul-germs are
cherished by them, and given back when a suitable oppor¬
tunity offers. LThis is the only kind of reincarnation I
know of.
“ If it be permitted me to give my own private opinions, I
will say that I cannot conceive of such a plurality of existences
as the reincarnationists teach. To my mind it destroys
identity. For instance, in ^meeting with Shakspeare, Bona¬
parte, or Julius Caesar, in the spirit-world, I am not to suppose
I look upon or know either of these celebrated beings as a
solitary pure exhibition of the Divine Will or Spirit in their
existence, but each one would be the repetition of himself in
several separate existences; to my mind a monster of men¬
tality ; a conglomeration of many spirits in one. One would
almost feel like saying,—‘ My friend, do I speak to yourself,
or to some one else ?’ ‘ Oh !’ he might reply, ‘ I have
been my own ancestor several times over: you now see me
purged and purified, by passing through these several human
lives; I am not Bonaparte only, but so-and-so, and so-and-so
(etc. etc., ad infinitum), all in one ! ”
“ In some cases in the spirit-world this idea amounts to a
positive insanity; and we find spirits utterly wretched under
the necessity, as it appears to them, of reincarnation. Now
it happens also that a spirit may attach itself so closely to a
child as to thoroughly impregnate the child’s life with its own,
and it is quite possible so to interfuse itself into the con¬
sciousness of the fully developed being as to cause it to feel at
different times of its life that it has been some one else, or
inhabited other scenes. This often happens. I know a great
many reincarnationists in this world—among them the great-
minded Allan Kardec; and many discussions I have witli
them. I passed away from earth nearly 800 years ago. My
grandmother was Mary Queen of Scots. If she has been re¬
incarnated, or I, or my father James the First of England, I
have failed to perceive it. I am glad to say we expect to con¬
tinue to enjoy each other’s society in this world, and when
UB St siqx—: HaVHDV^Wd MUlAiU^db' TO'
'0‘3 ‘NoaNoq ‘aNvq; vihvi\[ aAy ‘n
‘aoiaao HaavdSAtajsi BSBwptagg
•Nosra'avn ‘H MvmiM
•■eapi sq;
jo uoijnooxo oqj joj Xp'BSJ avou si asp SuiqjXjaAa
i X|pidBj saidoo joj sauiBu jpqj jajua oj Ajuo
aA'Bq Xaqj ‘jno pauj^a aq oj jqSno u^jd aqj j^qj
auTUuapp aqqnd aqj jt qeqj os ‘apBm uaaq XpBaap
aA'Bq ‘paipouad pasodojd aqj jno SutSuuq jb qjoAv
oj aA'Bq qiAY oqM suosjad jaqjo qjiAV sjuauiaSuBjjB
I'BUOTSiAOjd puB ‘sSuiMBjp aqj ajnaaxa qiAV XjqiqB
qSiq jo sjspjy 'pasBajaui aq qiM sSuiABjSua
jo jaqmnu aqj ‘pajapjo aq qjuom jad saidoa
oos‘i aq^ uBqj ajom Xubux ji puB ‘autzBSBjq aq;
jo jaquinu qaBa iq aBaddB qiAv ‘sauo qBins pjaAas
puB auo aSaB| auo jo ‘sSutabjSuo oSjbj oa\.j jaqqg
•Xqpnb qSiq jo ajnjBjajq
qjTAv amrqoA aq; qq o; uaqB; aq pm ajBD ;Baj0
•jaqmaoaQ jo q;uoui aq; jo ;soux Xdnaao ppoAv
•t/gl ‘oz ’AOiSI
•xsnwixraias shj
graphs in the new periodical will be set in type.
Spiritualists should subscribe to the new Magazine as a
commercial investment, because at the close of the year,
a volume will have been obtained for twelve shillings,
infinitely superior to any other book ever before sold in
Spiritualism for a guinea or more, and as time passes and
the movement progresses, the volumes will further increase
in value, because of their scarcity. As the plan is likely
to collapse unless the poorest subscribers order more
than one copy each, not less than two copies monthly
should be ordered; the extra volumes ordered will form
exceedingly handsome presents as Christmas gifts from
subscribers to their friends, at the end of the year 1875.
But the carrying out of the proposal, if it is to be carried
out at all, must depend very much upon the large capitalists
connected with the movement; supposing large quantities,
say of more than 100 per month, were taken by any one
person, they would be obtainable at a somewhat reduced
rate ; if they were bound at the end of the year, and the
volumes brought prominently before the large number of
Spiritualists in the United States, there is apparently no
reason why a large profit should not be derivable from their
sale. After the lapse of a few years, they would be scarce
and valuable books in England. If, also, any capitalists
should take this matter up for the good of the movement,
and not as a commercial investment, any instructions they
may give as to the disposal of their copies shall be
attended to. If they order copies to be posted regularly to
the great libraries, learned societies and universities at
home and abroad, or to the daily or other newspapers, they
shall be sent, together with a circular informing the reci¬
pients to whom they are indebted for the regular supply.
The decision whether Spiritualism shall forthwith possess
a periodical necessary and useful in itself, and printed in
finer style than any other Magazine in this country, now
rests with the readers of these lines, who in any case are
requested to begin ordering copies in pairs, rather than
singly, if they can conveniently do so. The title of the
proposed Magazine will be announced in an early number
of 7%e Spiritualist. The following Order should be cut
out, filled in by the would-be subscriber, and posted to
the Office.
November , 1874.
* proposed Illustrated Spiritual Periodical during the year, 1875, at
?dom, the Copies to be paid for by me in Two Half-yearly Instalments
,uary, 1875, and the Second on the First of June, 1875.
lgned_
M Address'
Nov. 20, 1874
THE SPIRITUALIST.
251
our work down here is over, to ascend together into realms
inconceivable to the minds of the denizens of earth: from
that high place to minister still, but in a different way, to the
wants of human beings.
“ Knowledge is progressive: there are no halting-places on
that road. Many theories, teachings, and plans of salvation
have come down, and will continue to come down from the
spirit-world to the world of mortals. Men stand bewildered,
and ask, ‘Which is true?’ We answer there is one great,
eternal truth—God and the God-life. Learn what that is,
and try to embody it, and you will know truth and God. Let
theories go past you like smoke from the furnaces of minds,
and keep yourself free to accept or reject what comes forth
from those furnaces as complete and perfect as it may suit
the light of your own reason. A hundred years hence the
general average of the human intellect will be higher, and
your descendants will wonder at the extraordinary mental
gropings of the men of this day. Perhaps reincarnation may
be exploded, like a wonderful bubble collapsed before the
sharper intellectual explorations of your successors into the
mysteries of the universe and human existence. By that
time men will have ceased to worship a man like unto them¬
selves, only a purer jand a more perfect expression of the God-
life, and will bend, as do the highest angels, in true worship
before the God-spirit only.
“ There are many sanctimonious ones amongst you who, with
uplifted hands of horror, will denounce me as an evil spirit, a
liar, and so forth. If any of us have the hardihood to come
back and tell you the truth, that is the way you receive it, if it
does not accord with your own narrow-minded bigotry. ‘ I will
believe no spirit,’ say you, ‘ unless he agrees with what I have
set before myself as infallible truth: if he denies what I
believe, he is surely damned, and a devil!’ There are some
among you who would put the whole spirit-world into harness
and drive it along your own road. ‘ I know best,’ say you,
‘ All our old Evangelists were infallible: God revealed himself
to them, and ever since He has shut His mouth, and been
silent. I believe in the Bible, and the true Christian religion
as set forth in the writings of the old fathers. I know I shall
find that to be eternally true!’ Yes; we would answer, all
that is of God is true; but it will take wiser minds than yours,
ye dear old infants in swaddling clothes, to discriminate what
is of God, and what of men. If Jesus himself appeared
amongst you, and declared ‘ I am not God ! Why worship ye
me ?’ You would answer, ‘ He hath a devil! Away with
him! Crucify him 1’ And yet you ask us to tell you what is
true ! Will you believe it when we tell you ? ‘ Is reincarna¬
tion true ?’ I am asked again and again. Take it if you like
it, I reply. God is not going to destroy you if you make a
mistake; as well expect the sun to roll out of its path to crush
a gnat.”
EX- SPIEITTTAXISTS.
Sib,—Would not what follows be a nice way of putting it
for our disappointed mediums—brothers and sisters? You
might set apart one column in your excellent journal for this
special purpose:—
Pity the sorrows of a poor ex-Spiritualist and medium who
has been sent to the dogs by a woman-spirit, falsely represent¬
ing herself to be my mother. I have been taken in and done
for by my “ dealings with the dead,” and other works of the
like kind, which have not come off according to my expecta¬
tions !
Pity the sorrows of a poor ex-secularist who, like the dog in
the fable, has parted with the substance for the shadow!
Pity the sorrows of a poor ex-gentleman who has made the
dreadful mistake of quitting the ranks of the upper ten to join
unwittingly the legions of Lucifer—“ countless, invisible !”•
Pity the sorrows of a poor ex-doctor of medicine who became
so entranced by the “ Arch-Fiend” and his myrmidons (John
King and Co.!) that he forsook the “ paying humbug” of
poisoning by crude drugs for the horrible realities of starvation
and neglect, brought upon him by his temporary attachment
to the Truth.
Pity the sorrows of a poor old mangle-woman who has had
to part with her “instrument,” and go out charing, in conse¬
quence of the repeated but forbidden visits of her great grand¬
mother 1 &c., &c., Hugh M'Leod,
Ex-Humbug, but now for the Truth as it is in
science, for ever and ever.—Amen!
Last week Mrs. Tappan delivered two lectures in Bir¬
mingham, and they gave general popular satisfaction.
EXTRAORDINARY MANIFESTATIONS IN
BIRMINGHAM.
On Sunday last several spectators were present at the most
satisfactory seance that ever took place in Birmingham. The
readers of these lines will remember the sudden passing away
of Mr. B. Hawkes, of Birmingham. His Spiritualistic friends
in that town state that he is now more indefatigable in his
labours for Spiritualism than when in earth-life, and having
found a suitable medium (Mrs. Groom), is evolving the most
extraordinary and reliable phenomena.
At the Midland Spiritual Institute, Suffolk-street, Birming¬
ham, last Sunday week, Mr. Hawkes, in the direct voice, re¬
minded the circle that the, following Sunday would be the
anniversary of his birth into spirit-life.
It was resolved therefore to hold a commemorative seance on 1
that day, admissible to Institute members only. Although by
this step many Spiritualists. were deprived of the privilege of
attending, yet the superior, conditions that were the result
proved the wisdom of the step.
On Sunday evening, therefore, 21 members having assembled,
including, Mr. Lones, president; Mr. Huskisson, vice-
president ; Mr. and Mrs. Franklin; Mr. Hill; Mr. and Mrs.
Sunderland; Mr. and Mrs. Groom; Mr. Watson; and others;
the doors were locked, and no one else admitted.
A guitar was suspended from the ceiling, a hand-bell and
paper tubes were laid on the table, the members forming an
inner and an outer circle, all joining hands. The gas was
extinguished, and in a few minutes the bell and tubes were
floating round the circle beating time to the hymns that were
sung. -Flowers were also brought by invisible hands and
thrust dexterously between the fingers of the sitters. The
flowers having been removed, Mr. Franklin, who was leading
the hymn “ When the hours of day are numbered,” suddenly
had his mouth filled with confectionery, and before the
laughter which this ludicrous incident excited, had subsided,
a handful of sweets was dashed on the table.
Soon a loud, rough voice hailed the sitters in a vernacular
that smacked of Billingsgate. This was “ Tom,” a some-time
mariner; his remarks were more forcible than refined, and he
eventually gave way for Mr. and Mrs. Franklin’s little daugh¬
ter “Lucy.” “ Mamma, papa,” said the little voice, “sing
pretty.” After a hymn the little voice again articulated^
“ Mamma, papa; wish Mr. Hawkes many happy returns of
the day.” This was done most heartily by all present.
In a few moments a perfect deluge of most delicious per¬
fumes took place; this beautiful phase of the phenomena
occurred at intervals during the evening.
Soon the direct voice of Mr. Hawkes was heard. So natural
was it—withal a peculiar one—that it needed but a slight
stretch of fancy to imagine the scene at the Athenamm, a
dream, and Mr. Hawkes still with his brethren in the flesh.
Proof after proof, say the witnesses, was given of identity, yet
tests were not asked, nor answered as such; Mr. Lones, the
president had been told by Mr. Hawkes when in the flesh,
that if he would ask a certain question, he (Mr. Hawkes)
would give him a certain answer. He therefore asked the
question and received the answer promised.
Old friends talked with him of incidents that occurred years
ago, and an animated conversation was kept up for almost an
hour. He spoke eulogistieally of Mrs. Tappan’s visit,
prophesying great results, and stimulating the committee to
engage her again.
The materialised spirit hands also patted and caressed each
in the room, to the no small alarm of a gentleman present,
who bee me much agitated. The guitar was manipulated by
the hands, and the hands of some of the sitters grasped and
pulled up to it.
After wishing Mr. Hawkes “good-night,” the seance was
brought to a close by singing the “ Doxology.”
Okoaxisatiox.—Two copies of a newspaper called The
Word have been forwarded to us from Princeton, Massachu¬
setts, the editor being dead against organisations of all kinds,
on the ground that they tend to tyranny. His opponents ask
how are children to be reared and protected, unless by the
parental organisation of father and mother at home, or by the
State ? And why does the editor ever inconsistently walk in
the public streets, they having been made by organisations ?
To these posers he replies that he does not object to those
organisations which individuals may join and leave whenever
they please.
252
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 20, 1874.
BACON A SPIRITUALIST.
In the last chapter of Mr. Epes Sargent’s Proof
Palpable of Immortality, in which the spirit-body
is considered, an account of Lord Bacon’s views on the
subject is given, from which it would seem that they
were in harmony with those of most modern Spiritualists.
We quote the passage:—
Bacon’s theory of the soul is like that of nearly all
the great seers and mediums. He, too, regards man as
a trinity of earth-body, spirit-body, and spirit. As is
God, so also, according to Bacon, is the spirit (spiracu-
lum), which God has breathed into man, scientifically
incognisable; only the physical soul, which is a thin,
warm, material substance, is an object of scientific
knowledge.
“ Two different emanations of souls,” says Bacon,
“ are manifest in the first creation, the one proceeding
from the breath of God, the other from the elements.”
No knowledge of the rational soul (the spirit) can
be had from philosophy; but in the doctrine of
the sensitive, or produced soul (the spiritual body), even
its substance, says Bacon, may be justly inquired into.
“ The sensitive soul must be allowed a corporeal sub¬
stance, attenuated by heat and rendered invisible, as a
subtle breath, or aura, of a flamy and airy nature, and
diffused through the whole body.”
Thoroughly acquainted with the spiritual phenomena
of his day, and of antecedent times, Bacon teaches
unequivocally the doctrine of the spiritual body and of
the threefold nature of terrestrial man. He says :
“ But how the compressions, dilatations and agitations
of the spirit, which, doubtless, are the spring of motion,
should guide and rule the corporeal and gross mass
of the parts, has not yet been diligently searched into
and treated.”
“ And no wonder,” he adds, “ since the sensitive
soul itself,” by which he means the spirit-body, “ has
been hitherto taken for a principle of motion, and
a function, rather than a substance. But as it is now
Jcnoiun to he material, it becomes necessary to inquire by
what efforts so subtile and minute a breath can put such
gross and solid bodies in motion.”
“ This spirit of which we speak,” continues Bacon,
“ is plainly a body, rare and invisible, quantitative,
real, notwithstanding it is circumscribed by space.”
Bacon admits the facts of clairvoyance, or divination,
and distinguishes between that proceeding from the
internal power of the soul, as “ in sleep, ecstasies, and
the near approach of death,” and that which comes
from influx through 'ft a secondary illumination, from
the foreknowledge of God and spirits.”
Never was I more impressed by Bacon’s greatness as
a sagacious interpreter of natural facts, than when
I found him thus anticipating the highest conclusions of
modern Spiritualism, both on the subject of the spiritual
body, and on the distinction between the knowledge
that is explicable by a theory of psychic force, and that
knowledge which must come from “ the illumination of
God and spirits.”
The question raised by Dr. Rogers, Count Gasparin,
Serjeant Cox and others, as to whether odic force
or psychic force may not explain all the phenomena of
Spiritualism, are here, with the discrimination of one
who had studied all the facts of divination, and who
speaks with unquestionable authority, decided in con¬
formity with the views of Spiritualists.
The Coming Soieee.—The National Association soirees
in the winter time, can he made to pay their own expenses;
the chief object in getting them up is to promote social feeling
and friendly union among Spiritualists. Dr. Gully will preside
at the next one, and an interesting address from him may be
expected.
The Royal Institution—The Christmas series of ex-,
perimental lectures this year at the Koyal Institution, will be
delivered by Dr. J. Hall Gladstone, F.R.J3., on “ The Voltaic
Battery.” The nature of the various batteries will be
experimentally explained, and their influence as in electro¬
plating, and in the electric light. He will close the series
wifjh a lecture on the electrical currents in the human body
and in plants. Although these lectures are adapted to a
juvenile auditory, the oldest and the greatest philosophers
of the day and large numbers of ladies, do not think it
beneath their dignity to attend.
answers to correspondents.
W. R., Birmingham.—Lengthy communications should reach us
not later than Monday in each week.
R. F., Manchester.—The information you sent had been pre¬
viously published ; we thank you for the photograph.
If any subscribers who get The Spiritualist by post, and who reside
within the London postal districts, have not for the past few
months received their copies regularly, not later than by the first
post every Friday morning, the papers have been delayed en
route by the newsvendor who supplies them. They can be
obtained in proper time when ordered direct of Mr. Allen the
publisher, or of any newsvendor who desires to post them on
Thursday evening.
X. —Exception is taken by us to the phrase “ severely virtuous ” in
Mr. Goleman’s letter last week, since saints are not nice people,
nor desirable company except in imagination, because they have
so little in common with human nature. Calm impartiality, free
discussion, and the setting forth of the alleged facts of opponents
in their fullest force, are merely the common results of scientific
training. When Dr. Gladstone made known apparent principles,
linking together the results of his experiments upon the tempera¬
ture of prisms as influencing the refraction of light, he called
special attention to a few results totally at variance with the
otherwise apparent law. So Dr. Balfour Stewart, while advo¬
cating the wave theory of light, publishes also the strongest argu¬
ments in favour of the emission theory. Dr. Tyndall’s recent
address, from beginning to end, was a fair setting forth of opposing
idealistic and materialistic arguments. When the Daily News
attacked the first number of The Spiritualist, the whole article was
reprinted in the second number, to show the utter impotence of
misrepresentation. When Lord Arthur Russell obtained sus¬
picious results at a seance, because his sarcastic mood had a reflex
influence On the manifestations, we asked him to publish his
account in these pages, which he did. The quotation now under
notice has caused some little mental friction, since four letters
have been sent us about it; we should be glad to be guided, if
some of the readers of this journal will send in for consideration
their opinion to what extent the fair hearing of both sides ought
to be carried out in a newspaper.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Treasurer.—Herbert N. Mozlet, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. -Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa)
The Best Book for inquirers. 2nd Edition, price 3s.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
London Simpkin, Marshaiu & Co.
LE MESSAOER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cath^drale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
T> EVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’§tudes psychologiques,,
JLV/ fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published bj the Snciete Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer,
4, Kingsgate-street, Holbora. Price One Shilling.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER. Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist. 39. Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications. .
Established 1842.
Nov. 20, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
MISS LOTTIE EOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTS, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover- square, two doors from Regent-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, ;will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by letter.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-roid, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
'ISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms. Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfield, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico. S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture. Terms 2 guineas.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK AND SADLER, Trance and Physical
Mediums, are open to Engagements for Private or Public Seances.
Terms as per arrangements. Messrs. Peck and Sadler also give Public
Stances every Monday, Tuesday, and Saturday Evenings, at Eight o’clock,
Tickets Is. each (limited number only), and Thursday evenings at Eight
o’clock, Tickets 2s. 6d. each. Tickets to be had at 157, Bute road. Seances
at 126, Oowbridge-road, Canton, Cardiff.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is,
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyrrman.
Price Threepence. Tobehadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
YISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table dHote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russrll-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
PENTON TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
26, PENTON-STREET, N.
EVERITT & SON desire the attention of their friends and the public
generally to the new and varied stock of Autumn and winter goods they
have just received.
Strong durable hard wearing overcoats from 35s.
Strong winter trousers from 14s 6d.
We have a large stock of fancy materials suitable for every article of
Gentlemen’s attire.
Our £2 2s. woaded black cloth frock coats and £1 black doe trousers
which have given such great satisfaction for the last twenty-five years, are
■till noted for good quality and durability.
J. trial is respectfully solicited.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hUl, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 62, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road. Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice, D.D., 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, V»
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendo Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, Richard, 34 Walnut-s’reet, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-roadj North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S , 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgaf-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.}
; Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymdur-street, Hyda-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, 8.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road. Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.C
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Olub-chambers, Regent street.'
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29 Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J„ 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool,
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D, &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Etq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tem.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emili de Sayn Wittgenstein. Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pasth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor {Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs rGora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 3,556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq.; 96, Russell
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. O. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 85, Leipsic
Mons. Buguet, Paris.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 20, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H.Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q.S., G-. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J.S.Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hiliier, Esq.; Mrs. 'J. G. Hillier; Henry .Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.8.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.” a
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceedingfr om
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2.' That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’   
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results , be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
Bitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
hall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
ouch eacn other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes,^ but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained,
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, andfromthis time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask,,“Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies. '
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATE STREET, HOLBORN, LONDON, W.O.
In the Printing Department every arrangement has been made for the
prompt execution of all orders. Printing of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Reform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in one' parcel immediately on publication. Terms;
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application. ■ -—■—
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “PIONEER OF PROGRESS” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. each.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman
20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into Spiritualism may obtain
gratis, all information concerning the various societies, national and local
seances, mediums, lecturers, &c.
All communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, W.G.
In handsome Cloth, price 2s. 6d. post free.
PSYCHOPATHY or, THE TRUE HEALING ART.
• By JOSEPH ASHMAN,
Principal of the Psychopathic Institution, 254, Marylebone-ioad, London,
N.W.
CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—Introduction.
Dissatisfaction with Ordinary Systems of Medicine—The Nature of
Disease—One primal Principle of Cure—Weakness and Strength—Man
like an Engine—What is Vital Force ?—Health, Breath, the Blood—The
Vital Principle beyond these.
Chapter II.—The Vital Principle.
The Stomach—Man a Plant—The Internal Sun—Man a Microcosm—
Caloric—Arterial Combustion—Temperature of the Body—The Nervous
System a Source of Heat—Nerve Force—Difference between the Gan¬
glionic and the Cerebral and Cerebro-Spinal Nerves — Office of the
Ganglia and the Cerebellum—Nature of the Vis Hervosa—lhe Soul
Force.
Chapter III.—On the Nature and Cure of Disease.
The Perfect Magnet—The Healthy Organism—The Source of Vital
Force—How produced—The Vital Force and Nerve-aura may be Com¬
municated—The Influence of the Old on the Young—The Hand a Psychial
Instrument—The Philosophy of Hand-Shaking.
Chapter IV.—Healing.
1 Two Vital Fluids—Their Signs—The Vital Magnetic Fluid: Mode of
Applying it—The Power of the Hand over the Temperature of the Body—
The Nerves the Medium of Influence—Process without Contact—
Healing at a Distance: Marvellous Cures—The Impartation of the Aura
to Water, &o.—^Necessity of Passivity and Benevolence—Concluding
Remarks.
London: J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
Ready by January 1st, 1875. Suitable for a New-Year’s Gift Book. A new
work on
Spiritualism, science, and Christianity;
showing their Harmony and Relationship, and will be specially
adapted for circulation amongst members of Christian Churches. It will
also be essentially a guide-book for enquirers, and will treat of the fol¬
lowing topics relative to the subject, in a scientific manner:—Spirit Circles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestations, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speaking and Writing Mediumship, Moral Influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Modiumship, Obsession, Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spirits,
Contradictions of Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and many other
points of interest both to Spiritualists and Enquirers. Published,price,
3s. 6d.; to Subscribers, 2s.; or 12 Copies for £1 Is.
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to GEORGE FARMER, 4,
Kingsgate-street, Holborn, London, W. C.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
