4-
A t^ECOFiD Of THE PROQHESS Of THE pCIEfICE /ND. ETHlCg OF gPIFilTUy\LlpM.
[RE&ISTEEED :FOE TEANSMISSION ABEOAD.]
No. 39. (VOL. II., NO. 11.)
LONDON,: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1872.,' "*r
THE SPIRITUALIST NEWSPAPER.
In accordance with, a general desire, this journal will
in future be folded differently, so as to be handier to
use and cheaper to bind. It will be the same size as
at present, but folded so as to make sixteen pages in-
stead of eight, each page being then half the present
size.
The second volume ends with the present number.
Soon, indices to the first and second volumes will be
issued. If the two volumes be bound together, they
will form-one of the most valuable books ever issued in
connection with Spiritualism.
THE INFLUENCE OF THE AFFECTIONS UPON
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Without at all agreeing with some of the leading
conclusions in the little book on Spiritualism Answered
by Science, recently published by Mr. Serjeant Cox, we
are free to admit that his plan of attempting to educe
laws from a tangled mass of psychological phenomena
is the best way of advancing Spiritualism. No two
men agree exactly as to what are the teachings of Spi¬
ritualism, because spirits hold all kinds of opinions,
which are often coloured more or less by the bias of the
medium, so that every inquirer will find the teachings
of Spiritualism to be more or less in harmony with his
own preconceived ideas. But a true scientific law,
when once discovered by patient observation or experi¬
ment, must necessarily be accepted by Spiritualists of
all shades of opinion, and will afterwards be of use in
further investigation. The discovery of the laws at the
root of the phenomena will be slow and painful work,
of little interest, probably, to nine persons out of every
ten, though of the most fundamental importance, and
the task must be performed ere Spiritualism can take
its place as a Recognised sciem?®, founxUrl ori true tBao-
riesI universal i n th ei r applicatioii.
Oir xn^ prdsuM occasion we wish to call attention to
one of the laws laid down by Mr. Serjeant Cox. He
says that a physical medium “is a person possessing no
known superiority of mind or body. - He differs in no
perceptible manner from other persons. The faculty is
not associated with any special intelligence or virtue,
nor with any condition of health or of disease, nor with
any sex, age, complexion, or form.”
A powerful physical medium may be old or young,
healthy, or sickly, it is true, but he will usually , be
found to possess particular mental characteristics, and
in the study of these characteristics the conditions
which cause mediumship are most likely to be dis-
•■covered. From what we have seen, we have come to
the conclusion that powerful physical mediums , are
persons who are easily mesmerised, and whose ' affections
■ and emotions govern their intellects. This is, to a great
■ extent, the feminine type of character, and may explain
why medial power is far more common among women
than men. A man whose intellect keeps his affections
and passions well under control may be a great states¬
man, or a great philosopher, able, like a powerful
steamship, to make steady headway against wind and
tide; but a man governed frequently, if not always, by
his emotions and his passions is one easily led into
evil or into good, according to the bias of the more
positive minds surrounding him day by day. Place a
powerful medium in the midst of good people, and he
will live closer to heaven than anybody else; surround
him with bad companions, and he will descend with
much facility to the other place.. A hard, grinding
man of business is never a powerful physical medium ;
a medium is always a person of an affectionate nature,
'ever ready to give his last shilling to anybody in deep
distress; in fact, we have known cases of this having
literally been done, more than once. A medium is
■always acutely sensitive, easily pained and easily
pleased. It is evident that a person of this description
is not one fitted to fight with the world and its wicked¬
ness, also, that it is a duty on the part of Spiritualists
to surround mediums as much as possible with good
influences.
When a medium is happy and at ease, the manifesta-
tations are strong, and when unhappy, or having a
feeling of dislike to any member of the circle, the mani¬
festations are weak. Hence the best manifestations
take place when all the members of the circle are
strongly bound together by the affections; in such
circles manifestations often take place in the light,
which ordinarily take place only in. the dark, the power
being s.6 much increased. All our best mediums, and
their relatives, possess practical knowledge of the truth
of this latter statement.
Sometimes when a celebrated London medium visits
the provinces, his first few seances: are failures. He
meets a number of strangers, all determined to have
everything under test conditions; they hold him hand
and foot, and sit glaring at him, waiting for manifesta¬
tions which do not come. At home, it is true, he has
to face sceptics, but, a few personal.friends being usually
also present, he feels more at ease. Anybody intro¬
ducing a medium to a number of strangers should not
do it precipitately, but first invite the medium to spend
an evening at a private family circle, and make him as
happy as possible. Something remarkable is almost
sure to take place under these conditions, to satisfy the
family as to the genuineness of the powers of their
guest, who then feels that he is not altogether friend¬
less when brought into contact with many strangers on
the morrow. Good manifestations depend chiefly upon
the medium being as happy as possible, and anything
tending to destroy this condition correspondingly
weakens the manifestations.
Perhaps the most unhappy and unpleasant occupa¬
tion it is possible to follow in England is that of a paid
medium. What with the disbelievers, on the one hand,
who think him to be an impostor, and the believers, on
the other, who hold the opinion that “ it is very wrong
to make money out of mediumship,” his life is not a
bed of roses. If it is wrong to pay mediums who can
prove that there is a life beyond the grave, how much
worse it must be to pay preachers who cannot do so.
Manifestations draw upon the vitality of a medium just
like a hard day’s work, and if strength is expended in
this way, there is none left to enable the medium to
efliciently follow any other occupation. Why should
not a medium receive enough to be able to eat and
arink, and to clothe himself? What right have the
members of a crrclcr to take the time and strengtii of a
medium, also the evidence he lays before them of the
reality of a future life, and to go away with all
this property, without making, some return to the
owner ?
- Non-professional mediums also require more moral
support than they as a general rule receive. When a
lawyer is present in a small company, it is not exactly
polite to bring up anecdotes of how legal sharks rob,
not only the widow and the fatherless, but anybody they
can lay their hands upon ; suen statements may be true,
but the conversation is too personal. Yet we have some¬
times seen a medium put quite at ease- before a seance
by means of anecdotes related to him about the tricks of
mediums, and what rank impostors they are as a body.
It is not among the ordinary usages of society for one
guest to rub the flat part of his hand over the nose and
mouth of another, yet such a thing has been done, to
ascertain whether spirit voices came‘ from spirits or
from the non-professional medium who submitted to the
gentle friction.
Of course, in these matters there is much to be said
on all sides of the case. The medium knows that there
is a vast amount of. prejudice hanging over the subject,
so shows more forbearance than. might be expected.
For the same reason the master of the house does not
always support his guest to the extent he otherwise
would have done, for he feels the scepticism to be
natural. Still, we think more social support for me¬
diums to be needed, it being undoubtedly the case that
seances are now very often refused to inquirers, because
non-professional mediums see no reason why they
should subject themselves to much that is not pleasant,
to convert people in whose belief or disbelief they feel
very little interest.
With a physical medium of moderate power, the
members pi the circle should not number more than
five or six. With a very strong medium, about nine
or ten may be present, and most seances at which more
persons are admitted are more or less failures, though
there are exceptions. There have been many failures
through two mediums being invited to be present, it
being afterwards palpable that the said mediums are
mortally jealous of each other. The best spiritual
manifestations are obtained in those circles where all
the members are strongly.bound together by the affec¬
tions, and where the medium feels thoroughly comfort¬
able and happy. But the last of these two conditions
has a far more potent influence over the manifestations
than the first.
A TRANCE LECTURE.
A few days ago a soiree, to celebrate the third anni¬
versary of Mr. J. J. Morse’s debut as a public medium,
was held at 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, London,
and in consequence of the esteem in which Mr. Morse
is held, because of his useful career and blameless life,
there was a very large attendance of his friends. Several
complimentary speeches were made on the occasion, and
one of them by Mr. T. Shorter, of the Spiritual Maga¬
zine. Not unfrequently it is asserted by the uninformed,
that spirit messages are never above the level of intel¬
ligence of the medium. Undoubtedly, many messages
are more or less limited by the'capacity of the medium,
still, without any disrespect to Mr. Morse, who is of a
'thoughtful disposition, the addresses given through his
lips while in the trance, are far higher in intelligence
and deeper in thought, than any lecture would be if
composed by himself. He seats himself in a chair, is
mesmerised to sleep by his attendant spirits, then he is
made to rise, -and to deliver an address. There is no
doubt, among those who know him well, as to the
genuine character of these addresses. He is insensible
all the time he is speaking, and when he wakes up,
knows nothing of what he has been saying. Sometimes
spirits tell the tale of their past lives through his lips,
and give their names and addresses; many of these
cases have been afterwards inquired into, and found to
be accurate. On Thursday evening, October 3rd, he
gave a lecture in the trance state to the St. John’s
Association of Spiritualists, Corporation-row, Clerken-
well, London. Mr. Barber presided. The following is
an abstract of the address:—
The controlling spirit said that he wished to address
the understandings and not the feelings of his hearers.
The charge was often made that the spirits brought no
knowledge to man that he had not before, or that he
might not have gained by study. This might have
been so in the experience of one particular observer,
but it was not the pase with all Spiritualists, LL
would, therefore,-■■attempt ho flights of rhetoric which
might please the ear or excite the feelings, he preferred,
in a few simple words, to attempt to instruct the mind.
At the present day philosophy and religion are inter¬
rogated as to the nature and reality of a life after death,
but no answer is obtained, except in a few glimmer¬
ings of truth which have dawned in intuitive minds.
Science, unfortunately; has travelled away from the
region of spirit, and has wrapped itself up somewhat in
egotism, so that the real nature of the spirit home is a
mystery to the philosophical world as well as to nearly
the whole human race. The Spiritualist, however,
professes to have a knowledge of the spirit home, hence
he opposes his positive knowledge to the assertions and
affirmations of the theologian, although he feels that it
is hard to uproot the ideas which his fathers and fore¬
fathers have cherished. To prove the existence of a
spirit home, there are several questions which ought to
be considered. The enlightened judgment recognises
the fact that there is something behind the material
organisation manifesting itself through the phenomena
of matter exhibited in connection with intellectual life.
Is this intelligent principle evolved from the organisa¬
tion,'or is • the organisation the result of the action of
the intellectual principle ? The intuitive mind recoils
from the former hypothesis. It feels a life within
superior to its present position,—a life and a power
which .controls and masters matter,—and when the
body dies shall this regal power be dissipated like the
morning mist before the rising sun? Reason recoils at
the thought. He maintained that the proof that when
the body .dies the intelligent principle is lost, is not
forthcoming. Intelligence is a principle, and principles
live for ever. He wished to tell his mortal hearers
that the death of organic forms did but lay the founda¬
tions of higher orders of life. The moment after the
death of the body, the man who recently governed it
may be at its side, but having lost all power over the
material form may not be able to make his presence
known to his friends ; he has been divested of the
instrument for expressing his thoughts upon the mate¬
rial plane, and the liberated^principle, in its new life,
free from the shackles of earth, can ordinarily hold
communion only with beings possessing a similar spi¬
ritual organisation. This raises the question as to the
nature of the spiritual body. All organised life shows
a progressive tendency;-it rises higher and higher in
the scale of being, and there is no retrogression ; there¬
fore, it naturally follows 4hat the new organisation is
superior to the one possessed in earth-life. The new organf
82
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 1, 1872.
isation must possess the same characteristics as the old,
otherwise, the man would not be recognisable either by
his friends or by himself. The new body is composed
of finer and rarer elements, hut the personality of the
individual is maintained, and his new body is to him as
real and material as his old one. Materialists put a
wrong interpretation upon the word “ spirit,” thereby
causing unnecessary difficulties ; they think of spirit as
an intangible nothing, instead of looking upon it as an
infinite rarefication of matter. The materialist ought,
therefore, to be jubilant at the abolition of transcen¬
dentalism which this idea will effect, and he ought
to be pleased that such a glorious fact presents
itself to the gaze of science. Spirits know incontes¬
tably that the spiritual body is derived from the
natural one in every part, but the different kinds of
matter building it up are more refined than in the earthly
body. The intelligent principle survives the death of
its first body; the continuity of its actions is not
broken, the spiritual man being a rational creature, with
an organisation. This being admitted, the necessity for
a spirit home for the new body stands out clearly de¬
fined. . It is plain that the home must be one adapted
not only to the man’s new requirements, but to his past
experience; this is demanded by the very constitution
of individual life. The new home being necessary, is it
also possible that there can be such a home? The
spiritual body is produced from the natural body by
principles inherent in the latter. A long course of
changes, as proved by geology, passed over the earth
before it was possible for that body to live upon it;
plants were first developed, then animals, and as the
materials of the natural world underwent successive re¬
finements, by passage through various living organisms,
new forms of life were evolved, to be succeeded in their
turn by higher forms still, so that at last the material
elements had sufficiently progressed to be capable of
taking their allotted position, and the organism of man
was the result. The fiat of the Creative Mind had gone
forth, and acting through all nature, produced man.
That Operating Cause is eternal, with an eternity of
effects in relation to it. When the ultimate, in the
shape of mortal man, has been reached, are we to say,
“ There is the end? ” If so, progress would be a lie;
he maintained that the supposed proofs of man’s mor¬
tality were unsupported by fact or reason. Man, in all
his states of existence, is ever progressing in what may
be analogically defined as spiral lines, and the end of
one spiral is but the beginning of the next. At death,
the body is placed in the ground, but the atoms building
it up having been associated with an intelligent princi¬
ple,-are thereby raised higher than any other atoms on
the earth, and some of them being no longer related to
the earth, are of necessity repelled from it. Sensitive
people, with spiritual vision partly developed, have seen
flickering lights over graves in churchyards. Some¬
times the imagination has formed these luminons emana¬
tions into the human shape, thereby giving rise to
superstitious fears instead of a desire for scientific in¬
vestigation. Clairvoyants see streams of fire rising
from the body of a dying man. Think of the millions
upon millions of bodies now lying in the earth, and the
great quantity of refined matter which must in all ages
have streamed from them into the realms of space,
because it had no affinity for anything upon the earth.
These emanations have formed round the earth a ring
of what may be called nebulous matter. Matter, in
all its conditions, ever seeks its chemical affinities. The
natural body is the ultimate of all the material forces ;
it is a microcosm, containing within itself all the laws
and phenomena belonging to the natural life, and the
particles which leave it in a refined condition contain
all the potentialities once exercised on the earth plane.
These atoms build up the spirit world nearest to the
earth; they again evolve organic forms and shaped, but
wondrously more beautiful than anything which ever
entered into the imagination of man. The resurrection
of man and of matter is all in natural sequence: there
is nothing supernatural about it, or anything which
would imply that at the outset the Creator had forgotten
something in the sequence of events. Neither is there
any break in the continuity of intellect; the scientific
mind and the intuitive mind both naturally reject any
such idea. The new home is related in its conditions
more or less to the earthly one. Investigators into
Spiritualism should . first satisfy themselves that the
facts are true, and that the spirits of the departed
really can hold communion with man, or else satisfy
themselves that the whole thing is a gigantic delusion.
If there be spirits they must have a home, and it fol¬
lows logically, as a matter of necessity, that the new home
should he adapted to their past experiences and their new
requirements. All spirits do not go to the glorious home
just described, which is the first and lowest of the many
mansions above. Those spirits whose affections are
gross and earthly are still tied by their crimes or errors
to the earth after the death of the first body. They
are earth-bound spirits. Spirits of a higher nature
find themselves by a spiritual law in the home already
described. He had endeavoured to give his hearers
some glimpses of the truth that it is reasonable to sup¬
pose man to be immortal, also to reveal some facts about
that spiritual life on which theologians can only specu¬
late. Of what use to the living man to-day are the
speculations of men long since dead and gone? Human
experience is continually expanding-, therefore, although
ancient speculations may have been founded upon truth,
the thoughts of past ages cannot be binding upon the
brighter and clearer intellect of to-day. Ancient theo¬
logical teachings may have been very well suited for the
age in which they were brought to light, but men live
now in a purer atmosphere of light and'intelligence
than ever entered into the dreams, of their ancestors,
therefore all the worn out dogmas and negative argu¬
ments of the dead past must pass away before the posi¬
tive knowledge of to-day, but the battle will be fierce
and long. The new is well capable of resisting the
attacks of the old. The great king ff Knowledge” is
leading men on to happier states and nobler enterprises
than have yet been conceived, and in time the body of
man will become a purified temple, a fit dwelling-
place for those who worship the Almighty in spirit and
in truth.
The Chairman thanked the numerous hearers for the
rivetted and quiet attention with which they had listened |
to the address; he had noticed that noisy audiences j
marred trance lectures, for in such cases the spirits
cannot properly control the medium, and jargon is
uttered instead of consecutive and deep thought.
CANON CALLOWAY ON PSYCHOLOGICAL
PHENOMENA.
NO. IV.
The following is the conclusion of the paper read before the
Anthropological Institute by the Eev. Canon Calloway, M.D.,
of Natal. We have to thank the officers of the Institute for
the loan of the manuscript of the memoir, for the purpose of
publication:—
HILARION.
Antony was an Egyptian by race, the son of Christian
parents. Hilarion, the founder of monasteries in Palestine,
was a native of Palestine, and his parents were heathens.
Antony was a man without culture. Hilarion had received a
training in the schools of Alexandria. Yet their conduct and
experience were much alike. Hilarion retired to the solitude
of the desert, and there limited himself for food to fifteen figs
a day, which he ate after sunset, at the same time taxing his
bodily strength by hard labour with the mattock. Under this
system his nervous system was prepared for visions; and
“ One night he began to hear the crying of infants, the bleating
of sheep, the wailing of women, the roaring of lions, the mur¬
mur of an army, and utterly portentous and barbarous voices.”
And being then but a youth he shrank frightened by the
sounds, and;yet peered into the surrounding gloom, “longing
to see what he shuddered to hear, when suddenly, by the
bright moonlight, he saw a bright chariot with fiery horses
rushing upon him. But .when he called, on Jesus, the earth
opened suddenly, and the whole pomp was swallowed up beiore
his eyes.” “ But,” says his hiograpner, ‘ ‘ If we were to tell all,
they would make a volume too long. How often did women
appear to him; how often plenteous banquets when he was
hungry. Sometimes as he prayed, a howling wolf ran past
him, or a barking fox, or as he sang, a fight of gladiators made
a show for him, and one of them, as if slain, falling at his feet,
prayed for sepulture.’’ Here we have again visions character¬
istic of the individual mind. The mind of the youth goes
back to the world he has forsaken, his heart still yearns after
the humanities he has professed to despise; and his thoughts
rise before him as palpable images, in the reality of which he
fully believes.
IiTJTHEB, AND THE DEVIL.
Similar things again occurred in Germany at the time of the
Reformation. Luther himself,—strong-minded, hard-headed
Luther—not only believed in demons with as much reality as
Antony and Hilaripn, but had his own nervous system so dis¬
turbed by toilsome study and anxious thought, that he was
subject to visions. He believed that Satan often came to him,
and he appears to have held long disputes with him. “ I and
some others,” he says, “ have to do with great devils, devils
who are complete doctors in theology.” ,And again, “The
devil often presses me so closely in debate^ that I am all of a
sweat.” And the remedy he found serviceable might have
dispersed the demons of the Egyptian Monk. “ As to myself,
an old man,” he says, “ I find that a cup of wine has often
the effect of driving away evil thoughts, by sending me com¬
fortably to sleep for the night.”
On one occasion he was aroused by his enemy to a Very de¬
monstrative apparition; and the mark of the inkbottle which
he threw at him is said to be still pointed out in a chamber in
the Castle of the Wartburg.
He .also relates an anecdote of an old minister who was
haunted by a grunting devil, who came to him to disturb his
devotions, grunting like a whole herd of pigs. He found that
the best way of getting rid of him was by laughing at him and
deriding him. “For,” says Luther quaintly, “ the devil can¬
not bear ridicule.”
MADAME GTJXON.
Such things again occurred also among the Jansenists in
France; and among the mystic sects in England. Madame
Guyon relates that she was brought into remarkable sympathy
with her spiritual director. She, however, appears, in fact, to
have performed the part of a spiritual director to him, and to
have had her mind constantly dwelling on him, and his spiri¬
tual condition. She says, “ He hath occasioned me cruel pains,
when I was near a hundred leagues from him. I felt his dis¬
position. If he was faithful in letting self be destroyed, I was
in a state of peace and enlargement. If he was unfaithful in
reflection or hesitation, I suffered till that was passed over.
He had no need to write to me an account of his condition,
for I knew it; but when he did write it proved to be such as I
had felt it.”
Similar phenomena have also occurred in recent times
among the Irvingites, and others in England. But we must
not be detained with quoting examples.
Surely mental phenomena of this remarkable character,
occurring through so extensive a range both of time and of
country; and in such opposite conditions of society as the:
most highly-cultivated nations of Europe and the lowest order
' of savages; and in such opposite individual conditions as that
of the most spiritualised religionists, and the most brutish
fanatics:—the most highly-cultivated, and the most utterly
ignorant; and arising in such varied conditions and from such
varied causes, as to appear in some an innate gift, in others
a superinduced one; resulting as the efieet of disease, the
admimstration of certain medicines, or of some influence-
exerted by one individual on another, the mode of operation
of which is quite beyond our ability, with our present know¬
ledge, to trace out,—must, it appears to me, be referred to some
common principle existing in human nature, and be worthy of
the most serious investigation.
PAINFDL MENTAL DISTURBANCES ACCOMPANYING CHANGES
OE THEOLOGICAL IDEAS.
Let us now proceed to consider certain phenomena which
occur among the natives of Natal:—
1. Let us first consider phenomena occuring spontaneously
in certain exalted conditions of mind.
2. We will then consider some cases of self-mesmerism.
3. And will conclude with their system of divinations.
1. Phenomena occurring spontaneously.
Soon after being connected with the natives as a missionary
I became acquainted with the curious fact that they are almost
always subject to visions and strange delusions of the senses
during the early period of their conversion. A man has been
aroused by some means from a heathen train of thought ;
often by means unknown to himself, by something working-
in him, as he thinks, independently of any external thing;
sometimes something that has been heard in a sermon, or a
remark in conversation, or in a book, or even the mere pre¬
sence of another convert among his acquaintance, excites re¬
flection. He becomes wretched; he knows not why. He is
filled with an unreasoning fear. He dreads he knows not
what. His external condition is such that he cannot retire to
a secret chamber. But he is driven to pray to an unseen, un¬
known, uncomprehended power. He cannot pray in the midst
of his friends and relatives. They would laugh at him; per¬
haps beat him ; perhaps give him medicines to expel the new
fancies. So, in obedience to the inner impulse he goes to
some retired spot in the bush, or to some secret ravine, and
there kneels, and cries to one he knows not. Whilst praying
he closes his eyes, and at once sees -various kinds of fearful
things. He sees, perhaps, a deadly snake coming towards
him, with open mouth, and fierce eyes, ready to attack him.
Or he hears, as it were, the stealthy tread of the leopard, and
the gentle crackling of the broken twigs, as he comes on for
his final spring. Or he sees his eyes glaring on him through
a neighbouring thicket. Or he sees a man approaching him
with angry gestures, armed with an assagai to stab him. He
starts up in dismay to escape the threatened danger, in the
reality of which he fully believes. But on opening his eyes-
and looking around there is nothing bnt the same quiet scene
which he saw on his arrival.
Being unable to explain such things ; believing as they do
that a dream is occasioned by the presence of a real object,,
they believe that these visions are occasioned by real objects
too. Many are horrified and imagine it is the spirits of their
ancestors come to express their displeasure at their impious
departure from the religion of their fathers. They desist from
praying and return to heathendom with all their old faith and
notions greatly confirmed.
Or they may go to some friend who is a Christian, and con¬
sult him. Or they may ask the meaning of such things of the
missionavy. The iDsmuac tells them that all natives in the
transition sta,ge between unbelief and faith, see such things
and details his own experience, th*. it
is a delusion. Both tell them not to heed such things, but to
persevere. If they take this advice, and persevere for a few
times, and disregard whatever presents itself, these visions
pass away, and are never seen again.
Perhaps it will be more interesting to give you an account
or two in the very words of the natives themselves.
Usetemba Dhladhla, whose biography, given by himself,,
has been translated and published, says:—
“ When I was receiving instruction preparatory to my
baptism, I used to go regularly to a secret place to pray. I did
this because when I prayed it was as if I saw God, and ^hen I
left off, my heart was very white. I did so because I saw that
it was well for me too to believe in God and become His child.
But once when I was praying I saw a venomous beast coming
to me, as though it was. about to do me some harm. I started
up and left off praying. But I saw nothing when I arose. This
happened a second time. On the third time, I strengthened
myself, and said, ‘ Just let me see if it will do me any harm.’
I strengthened myself in this way till I had finished my prayer,,
and I saw nothing wnen I had ended. I doubted in my mind
what this could be. But I had heard before of other Chris¬
tians, that if a man prays alone, venomous animals, urged on
by Satan, come to him. So I saw it was nothing but a temp¬
tation of Satan. And it was thus constantly with me at the
time of prayer ; at length, by being brave I saw it was nothing,
and a great light shone on mej and I said, ‘ When so great a
light fills me, how foolish I am to be frightened continually by
a mere phantom ! ’ ”
Umpengula Mhanda gave the following account:—
“ When I first wished to pray, without knowing whence the
wish came, but feeling something urging me to go and pray, it
happened1 when I began to kneel, I covered my eyes that my
prayer might proceed in a proper manner, when I was not
dazzled by the sight of outer things. But thereupon I saw a
frightful thing coming to seize me. It was as if it had waited
until I knelt, that it might lay hold of me ; for if I was not
kneeling it could not overcome me. And truly it was as if I
did not see the thing which was about to bite me with my mind
only, but with my very eyes. My praying was stopped, and I
prayed like a thief who watches the door to see if anyone is
coming to detect him ; my prayer was good for nothing, for
my mind was confused by the beast. When I went to God to
tell Him of my wants, I said, * There it is, I see it now, it is
now going to seize me.’ And when I at length saw that it
was springing on me, I started up; I could not strengthen myself,
but suddenly raised my head. ‘ 0, there is nothing to be seen,’
I said, ‘ where is it gone ? for I thought I saw it yonder 1 f
And it was difficult to pray again, for I thought that although
I could not see it, it would see me bend down my head, and
lay hold of me. That place of prayer was spoiled, and I deter¬
mined to choose another place next time, and no longer to go
out when it was still dark, but to wait till the day had dawned
when all the wild beasts had returned to their places.
“ When I began to’kneel under a bush—for it is hard for a
man to pray openly in the presence of others, so I chose a
place in the desert,—0, as soon as I began, there comes a fear¬
ful snake to bite me. And if I said, ‘ No ! let me strengthen
myself, this is a delusion; ’ the snake passed away, and I saw
a leopard. And yet it was a mere phantom; it had no power.
And then there would come, as it were, a man to warn me,
shouting to me, and saying, ‘ O! do you loiter there praying ?
Nov. 1, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
83
There is a snake about to bite you.’ And he made a great
noise near me. And I felt immediately that I was dead; and
that I must start up. When I started up, and looked around,
I saw nothing. I said, ‘ 0, what kind of a thing is this ? How
do these wild animals know that I am going to a certain place,
and determine to come too ? *
“ I could not tell what to do. I came back from my prayer
without profit, like a man who has had his weapons taken
away. This happened continually. One day I determined to
try to persevere in prayer, even if I should feel a leopard de¬
vouring me, or a snake doing as it wished with me. And in
fact I strengthened myself as regards these beasts. They
came first when I began to pray, but because I knew that they
were deceptions, I despised them. But then there came some¬
thing I had never seen before,— a man with a large assagai
coming to stab me, walking stealthily that I might not hear
the crackling noise made by his feet in the grass. And when
I saw him coming suddenly upon me to kill me, I started up
saying, ‘ 0, to day it is not a wild beast. This is a man. He
is really about to stab me ! ’ But it was the same thing again.
There was nothing there.
“ There came continually things'whieh I did not know, which
made me fear exceedingly. At that time I wanted to pray,
but I had no place to pray in. And at home, if I prayed these
things came as well as in the desert. At length I despised
them, and said, ‘ 0, what kind of a man am I ? I see these
things at sojne distance from me, and at once leave off praying,
and run away. Just let me feel them on my body; feel that I
am really seized before I start up.’ And I did so one day in
the morning. When they appeared I said, ‘ Just do as you will.
Perhaps I am startled by a mere phantom.’ I strengthened
myself. Something came. I said, ‘Do what you will.’ It
passed away. Another came, and passed away. At length I
finished my prayer and arose, saying; ‘ 0, I was startled by
mere phantoms. It is so then, that when I tell them to come
on, they do not come on.’
“ After that these things tried to come back again, but it was
no longer as it was at first; they gradually diminished, and at
length ceased altogether. They were, in fact, mere hindrances
to prayer. And all who try to pray see such things.”*
Had this man read the life of St. Antony, or heard his story,
we might suppose that he had called up his experience by the
imitative power of sympathy. But he had not. And it strikes
me as singularly remarkable, that we should have repeated
here, in South Africa, in the nineteenth century, the same
kind of things as we have heard occurred in the North in the
fourth century, not only among Christian hermits, but also
among heathen sophists.
Another man, at a time of considerable religious excitement
among his acquaintances, heard a voice say to him, as he was
lying in his hut at night, “ Go out and pray.” He went out,
and as he knelt in the open air, felt, as it were, a human hand
passed gently in a stroking manner all over him. But he did
not stir.
Here we find the eye, the ear, and general sensation, all the
subjects of delusion. Or rather I should say the brain is in
that state of excitement that it conveys impressions to the
mind, by which it sees, hears, and feels without the presence
of any material object, capable of producing such sensations.
I am not prepared to assert that they are not produced by
spiritual agency, or that being produced by natural causes
they might not be used for good or evil, by good or evil
powers.
The cases which I have just detailed are those in which the
exciting cause of nervous derangement was religious emotion,
perhaps one of the most powerful disturbers of the nervous
system. But such things are quite common in the most un¬
tutored savages.
An old woman, a heathen who probably had never before
spoken with a missionary, was brought to me by her son. She
appeared to be in perfect bodily health. But she would not
remain at home during the night, but went out constantly to
wander on the mountains, because she said she heard the
spirits of the dead calling her to become a diviner.
Here was a very common symptom of incipient insanity;—
the brain hearing or rather conveying sounds to the mind
without any cause of sound. She thought she heard voices,—
they were internal or brain-voices,—continually calling her to
go to certain places, or to perform certain actions.
The power of divining generally begins in a native by some
such disturbances of the nervous system as I have been des¬
cribing. I have lately had an opportunity of enquiring into a
case of this kind, the particulars of which I will proceed to
detail.
MVIErATION AMOS'© THE NATIVES OE NATAL.
A native of Spring Vale, a convert of some ten or eleven
years standing, suddenly left the station. He has always
manifested great uncertainty of character, and a very impres¬
sible nervous system. It appears that for several years he has
from time to time seen subjective apparitions, and been in the
habit of dreaming strange life-like dreams. But superstition,
and the still lingering within him of his old heathen notions,
withheld him from making me a confidante in the matter, but he
did mention it to some old people in the village, who were not
likely to be able to help him in any way. At length after a
prolonged confinement to the house from a broken thigh, he
was suddenly seized with the belief that the spirits of the dead
were calling him to become a diviner. That is he had subjec¬
tive or brain-voices speaking to him. He gave no heed to the
voices at first. But at length he told the headman of the
village, that the spirits were calling him, and he must leave us.
Understanding that there was but little chance of my being
able to get an interview with him, I sent a man in whom I
could trust to investigate the case for me. He gave me the
following account of its origin and progress.
He said he was suffering from a disease which he did not
understand; that it had destroyed his religious faith, and
his natural affection for his children, which had been very
great. It had also destroyed his affection for men. There
was now no one he loved. He wished to be away far from all
human intercourse. The disorder began some years ago. He
first had a sensation of something creeping up from his fingers
and toes, passing up his legs and arms, and settling in his
shoulders, producing there a sense of oppression, and of great
weight. The shoulders is the place where the Itongo is sup¬
posed to have some especial residence.
After a time he began to see things when he lay down.
Then songs, which he had never heard, would come up of
their own accord to his mind. Then in his dreams he passed
* In both these eases it will be noticed that the unpleasant subjective im¬
pressions—probably produced by the mesmeric influence of the spirits
attendant upon the mortals—were shaken off by the positive exercise of
the will. If a mortal changes his religious ideas faster than do the unseen
and unknown spirits always ere rapport with him and influencing his
thoughts, his mental pains must be increased by the inharmony This
suggestion we throw out as a speculation only, not as demonstrated
fact.—Ed.
from place to place, and supposed that in this way he had be¬
come acquainted with the whole country. “I see also,’’he
said, “ elephants and hyenas, and lions, and leopards, and full
rivers. All these things come near to me to kill me. Not a
day passes without my seeing such things when I lie down.’’
And let us think how great must be his terror, when he believes
that these things actually come to him. Then he sometimes
thinks he is flying high in the air. And if he tries to get rid
of such things by praying, it seems only to cause the visions to
multiply in number and frightfulness. “ By prayer,” he said,
“Iseem to summon all kinds of death to come and kill me
at once.” Now he has continual internal voices, calling him
at night, and telling him to go to some particular spot, or to
dig up roots which were medicinal. He frequently obeys and
finds nothing. Or if he finds a plant and digs it up, he does
not know its properties, and throws it away. Sometimes he
refuses to obey. Sometimes the voices tell him to go to a cer¬
tain thicket, and he will find a buck entangled. He goes, but
finds nothing. The voices also command him to slaughter
cattle continually; but he refuses. All sounds are distressing
to him. He has quitted kraal after kraal, because he is unable
to bear the barking of the dogs : and one reason assigned for
not returning to his home is the dread of the ringing of the
bell.
He told the men I sent to him that he saw them coming the
day before ; but they were white men. And he was very ill on
their arrival, because a white man had entered the hut during
the night, and struck him on the thigh which had been
broken. He arose from his sleeping mat, and threw ashes
over him. But the excitement had left him very ill. He is
not always the same. On Sundays he is quite well, and
imagines he knows when it is Sunday by his freedom from
visions, and general sensations of relief. He will eat only a
few kinds of food—meat, the dregs of native beer mixed with
boiled maize and wild herbs.
It is probable he was thus communicative with my mes¬
senger in the expectation of convincing him that he was being
called by the spirits of the dead, and that he could not do
otherwise than obey them.
His friends looking on these symptoms as indicating the
disease which precedes the power to divine, treat him with
great gentleness and deference. The two questions they had
to determine between were these:—1. Whether they should
; call in a doctor who should so treat him that the power of
divining might be fully developed in him ; or 2, whether they
should call in a doctor to lay the spirits, and restore him to
his usual health. They concluded to call in a doctor to lay
the spirits, notwithstanding having been warned by another,
that by doing so they might cause his death.
A spirit is laid in this way. Emetics of a certain kind are
given, which they suppose have the power of expelling from
the system some matter which causes the disease. That
which is ejected is taken, mixed with sundry medicines, and
buried in an ant-heap some distance from the kraal. They
adopted this plan; and the man was at once convulsed, and
remained in convulsions for many days. They called his
wife. She insisted that they should dig up the medicine, and
went herself and destroyed the charm by opening the place
where it was buried.
Thus things remain at present. What the future will be
we cannot say. He may die of the disease; or become insane;
this, however, is said by the natives not to be common. Or he
may become a diviner. Or if he would submit himself to
proper care and treatment, may be restored to perfect health.
He regards as the immediate exciting cause of the disease in
its aggravated form, a Visit Irom his father-in-law, who told
him that two of his brothers had become diviners in the Zulu
country. He was silent; but was at once impressed with the
conviction that in his own case-too, the visions, and voices,
and dreams, were premonitions of a future eminence, such as
that to which his brothers had attained. One of his sisters,
too, in this country, has had similar premonitory symptoms.
It is a fact of considerable importance that it is a disease
which runs in the family. It is said that his father, who was
a steward to the Zulu King, had similar symptoms. The king
did not like to lose his steward, so when he heard it, he sent
his men and took away all his steward’s cattle. And “ that,”
my informant shrewdly remarks, “was the medicine which
cured him.”
I have entered into this lengthy detail of the case, not only
because it is one which has come under my own observation,
but because it may be regarded as a type of what the natives
call “ the disease which precedes the power to divine.” But
to sketch the progress of such cases I must draw from other
sources.
Such symptoms as I have mentioned having continued for
some time, the progress is something as follows. The person
is heard singing at night. The songs are often good ; always
new; so new and so good that the whole kraal will sometimes
arise and join in them. Or he is observed to come home
early in the morning, having been wandering about the
country all night, bringing with him certain plants, which he
tells them the spirits have pointed out to him and revealed
their medicinal powers.. Or he leaves his home, and wanders
for an indefinite period on the mountains and in the open
country; and comes back daubed with clay which he says he
has obtained by living for some time in a pool with the rain¬
bow, which the natives suppose to be an animal; and having
his body festooned with snakes. After a time he declares
himself to be a diviner; and his friends put his powers to the
test by concealing things which he has to detect by his clair¬
voyant ability. If he succeeds his fame is spread abroad
among the people, and they are called to be witnesses of his
power. They send him away into the bush, and hide all kinds
of things in all kinds of places. He returns, and if he finds
them, or the majority of them, he is declared to be a diviner
by acclamation.
We should not omit here to mark that these diviners, in
their initiation, adopt a very similar process,—fasting, watch¬
ing, and bodily austerities,—to that of the old Egyptian
hermits, and other notabilities, and that the results in each
case are similar,—visions, inner voices, and clairvoyance.
SELE-MESMEEISM BY NATIVES OF NATAL.
2. Self-mesmerism practised by the natives.
I cannot better introduce this subject than by the words of
a native.
“ Among black men there is a certain inner power of divin¬
ing. When a thing is lost which is valuable, they begin to
search for it at once; when they cannot find it, each begins
to practise this inner divination, and tries to feel where the
thing is; and not being able to see it he feels internally a
pointing, which says if he go down to such a place he will find
it. At length he feels sure he shall find it; then he sees it,
and himself approaching it; before he begins to move from ;
where he is sitting, he sees it very clearly indeed, and there is ;
an end of all doubt. That sight is so clear, that it is as
though it was not inner sight, but as if he saw the very thing
itself and the place where it is. So he rises quickly, and
goes to the place. If it is a hidden place he throws himself
into it, as though he was impelled by something to go as
swiftly as the wind. And he really finds it, if he has not been
merely guessing with his brain, but has practised the true
inner divination. But if it has been from mere head-guessing,
and knowing that he has searched in such a place and such a
place, and therefore it must be in such another place, he gene¬
rally misses the mark.”
It is extremely interesting and remarkable that in order to
excite this inner power into activity these savages adopt a
plan precisely similar to that of certain mystics when they
are waiting for inspiration. Like them they attempt to effect
intense concentration and abstraction of the mind,—an ab¬
straction even from their own thoughts, and according to the
statement by this self-mesmerising process become clai-voyant.
Here is an instance or two in which this “ inner divination ”
is put to a practical application.
It is said that when boys are herding cattle they often leave
them to join others in a game of play. Hence it often happens
when they return towards evening several of the herd are
missing; they sometimes search here, there, and every where
they can think of to no purpose. They then agree to sit down
and abstract themselves from all external things. Whilst
thus abstracted an intimation arises within them or one of
them that the cattle are in such a place ; and the faith in the
truth of the intimation is so strong, and the impulse to go to
the place so irresistible, that the subject of it arises and runs
off full speed to the place and finds the cattle. It is said that
it is not every boy that has the power ; some have it more
than others ; some never have it at all; others on the contrary
have it so strong and clear, that they are soon looked up to by
their fellows who follow them with the same confidence, as a
pack of dogs will the yelp of some well-known hound when
he has taken up the scent.
It is said that native waggon-drivers, when they have lost
their oxen, sometimes adopt this plan with success.
Sometimes persons who wish to enquire of a diviner will
agree to conceal from him the object of their visit; so when
they come to his hut, they pretend to be mere passing travel¬
lers. But after sitting still awhile he becomes sensible of the
object of their visit. He tells them he saw .them before
they reached his place by his inner sense, and knows
that they come to inquire of him ; that being a real diviner
he has no need of assistance from them. He orders them to
leave the house, and promises he will presently bring them the
information they want.
In Lululand, in order to prevent intelligence being carried
to intended victims, the chief does not acquaint his troops
with his intentions till the time of their setting out to destroy
the inhabitants of some devoted kraal. It is said to be no un¬
common thing for the head of such kraal to have a presenti¬
ment of impending danger. He is first sensible of bodily un¬
easiness and great restlessness. He then sits still, and prac¬
tices that “ inner divination ” or self-mesmerism, which the
herd-boys practise ; and in this state he becomes conscious,—
that is, has a brain-vision of the approaching army; and tells
his people to quit at once their village, and hide themselves in.
the woods. As they quit their kraal he will sometimes halt
them again to feel an inward intimation of the path they are
to take. It is said that in this way many escape that would
otherwise be massacred.
Many of us will, no doubt, remember examples of similar
occurrences among other people.
AN INCANTATION SCENE. *
It may not be out of place to give here the practice of divi¬
nation as carried out by natives on the Zambesi, and which
appears to be a kind of mesmerism or electro-biology.
Some corn had been stolen. The owner complained to the
chief, who called in a celebrated medicine-man to detect the
thief. The magician, on his arrival, first of all produced two
sticks, about four feet long, and about the thickness of an
ordinary broom-handle; these, after sundry mysterious man¬
ipulations and u tterings of unintelligible gibberish, he delivered
with much solemnity, to four young men, two being appointed
to each stick. Then from his capacious and greasy goatskin
bag, he brought forth a zebra-tail, which he gave to another
young man, and after that a calabash filled with peas, which
he delivered to a boy. The medicine man rolled himself
about in hideous fashion, and chanted an unearthly incanta¬
tion ; then came the man with the zebra-tail, followed by the
boy with the calabash, moving first of all slowly round the
man with the sticks, but presently, quickening their pace, and
shaking the tail and the calabash over the heads of the stick-
holders. For a time nothing came of these proceedings ; but
ere long the spell worked. The men with the sticks were sub¬
ject to spasmodic twitchings of the arms and legs. These in¬
creased rapidly till they were nearly in convulsions; they
foamed at the mouth ; their eyes seemed starting from their
heads ; they realised to the full the idea of demoniacal posses¬
sion. According to the Manganja notion, it was the sticks
which were possessed primarily, the men through them ; it was
the devil in two sticks; and when I asked the awe-struck
spectators, what next ? a man, in a suppressed voice, said :•—
“Wait and you will see. The sticks will drag and drag
the men until they drag them to the person who stole the
corn ! ”
And as he said, so, apparently, it came to pass. The men
seemed scarcely able to hold the sticks, which took a rotary
motion at first, and whirled the holders round and round like
mad tilings. Then headlong they dashed off into the bush,
through stubble-grass and thorny, shrub, over every obstacle
—nothing stopped them ; their bodies were torn and bleeding ;
round to tbe gaping assembly again they came, went through
a few more rotary motions, and then rushing along a path, at
a killing pace, halted not until they fell down, panting and
exhausted in the hut of one of the chief’s slave-wives. The
woman happened to be at home, and the sticks were rolled
to her very feet, and by so doing denounced her as the thief.
But the woman protested her innocence. The medicine
man was appealed to. In triumph he was smoking his pipe,
and the only remark he vouchsafed was: “ The spirit has de¬
clared her guilty ; the spirit never lies.” But she challenged
to prove her innocence by drinking the muair poison. This
she was allowed to do by proxy in the form of a cock. The
bird drank the poison, struggled for a moment, threw it up,
stood up, flapped his wings, and crowed 1 The spirit said she
was guilty ; the ordeal pronounced her innocent. So the
prisoner had the benefit of the doubt.
A THUMB-DOCTOE.
3. The native system of divination.
There still remains for us to consider their system of divi¬
nation.
84
THE SPIRITUALIST
Nov. 1, 1872
There are several kinds of diviners among them. They are
called Izinyanga Lokuhula, and are of four kinds :
1. Iziniyunga zesitupa, or Thumb-diviners.
2. Iziniyunga ezadhla impepo. Diviners who ate impepo.
3. Then there are those who divine by means of pieces of
stick or bones, who are called Omabukula izinti and Ama-
tambo.
4. And lastly, there are those who are called Abemilozi,
which perhaps we cannot better translate than by, “those with
familiar spirits.”
1. The Thumb-doctor is so called, because in divining he
requires the assistance of those who come to inquire, which
is given by pointing with the thumb whenever he says any¬
thing approaching to the truth.
It appears to be a mere system of guessing. The diviner
asks sundry questions of those who come to inquire. His
questions are put however in an affirmative form. He begins
perhaps by saying, “ You have come to inquire about a person
who is ill ? ” As this is a very common cause which leads
people to diviners, he is very likely to be right the first time.
This assertion is received with great outcry. They cry hear !
hear! smite the ground with branches; and point towards
him with the thumb, and say “ Eh 1 eh ! ” By this means he
gets on the scent; and in the same way he gets gradually to
know the age, sex, condition, &c., of the patient. And having
by help of those who consult him learnt all these particulars,
he sums it up in one grand oracular declamation. You come
to consult about a sick person. It is an old man. It is the
head of the kraal. You who come to me are his children.
His eldest son is not here however ; but the second son. He
is ill in such and §uch a manner. You do not suppose it is a
mere disease. It has been brought about by poisons. You
suspect some one. That one whom you suspect is a near rela¬
tion. I must not mention him, &c.
In fact, he merely relates to them in his own words, in a
direct and connected form, that which they have already told
him in a disjointed disconnected manner. The stronger mind
governs the feebler, and leads it as it wills. It is very much
like the game played by children, hiding and seeking. As
the seeker approaches the thing concealed, they say, “ You
are hot.” Or if he is going away from it, they are either
silent or say, “ You are cold,—very cold,—very cold.” And
thus bring him back to the place of concealment.
An account of some such process adopted by a man called
“a white witch,” will be found admirably told in a novel
which I remember reading many years ago, but to which I
cannot refer, called Sir Launcelot Greaves. The country
bumpkin is made the dupe of the more intelligent; he first
worms out of him by a series of artfully continued questions
the secrets of his history and his connections, and then tells
back to his astonished ear the information he has thus
gained, which sounds to the rustic like a revelation from
heaven.
The natives themselves place very little confidence in doc¬
tors of this kind, but regard them as mere extortioners, who
possess a greater power of devouring food than of divining.
They are called Amabuda, that is, babbling, talkative, lying
deceivers.
It may be worth remarking that in Abyssinia there is a
word probably of the same origin as this. Bouda is a term
applied apparently to a demon or evil spirit, which possesses
people,—to a sorcerer, who has communication with the demon,
very much like the Umtakati of Natal in his character, but
having much greater power, and exercising it not by the
coarse means of medicines and charms, but by a kind of
spiritual influence : it is also applied to the person possessed,
and the disease which arises as the result of possession. The
disease consists of a remarkable disturbance of the nervous
system, resembling hysteria, and is sometimes, in certain un¬
healthy seasons of the year epidemic. To counteract the
Bouda, there is a host of exorcists who exercise an extraordi¬
nary power over the patients, and by adopting a strange
system of treatment relieve them.
STICK AND BONE DIVIN'EBS.
2. The diviners who use sticks or bones are supposed to be
of a more trustworthy character.
The Omabukula izinti has three sticks, which by some
means or other he causes to move about, and jump. It is said,
that if enquiry be made for a sick man, the sticks or one of
them will be made to leap towards the person inquiring, and
fix itself on that part of the body which corresponds with
that which is diseased in the patient. Or if they ask a ques¬
tion ; for instance, Is the brother of the patient here ? It
will at once arise and jump on him if present.
The Amatambo or bones are each named,—man, cow, dog,
&c. When the enquirer comes, without asking any questions,
the diviner throws his bones on the ground ; if he comes to
ask anything about a man, the man-bone shows agitation ; if
about a cow, the cow-bone moves, &c.
Of course one is unable to pass any opinion on this subject,
not having seen any exhibition. But it is probably a sleight of
hand system.
IMPEPO EATERS.
3. Diviners who ate impepo are supposed to be possessed of
real powers of divination. The impepo is a medicine, which
is used as incense in sacrifices ; and to make the spirits of the
dead propitious, and their revelations clear. The diviner
uses it frequently, and sleeps with it near his person. We
may suppose that these diviners are persons who possess some
natural clairvoyant and prophetic power. We have now seen
enough to render this supposition not only quite possible, but
probable. They hold the same position among the natives as
prophets, and seers, and oracles, among other people. And
as in those other cases we find a great deal of mistake mixed
with a little truth, so among the Zulu diviners a thorough
sifting may find a few grains of real wheat in the midst of
much chaff. But it appears to me one of the most unwise
things to pooh-pooh it as a system of mere imposture and
deceit practised by intelligent men on the credulity of the
ignorant. It has been beautifully said, “ A scientific truth is
a very sacred thing.” Every true man of science would feel
this. But if a scientific truth is a sacred thing, so also are
those individual scientific facts sacred upon which the truth
is erected.
The diviner, being naturally of an iexpressible nervous
system, or as the natives say, “ having a soft head,” only
awaits some concurrence of circumstances,—illness, it may
be, suffering, famine, excitement, to bring out the latent
power, similar to that which is found occurring in every part
of the world. He then subjects himself to a discipline of
fasting, watching, and bodily exhaustion, by which the natural
power is fully developed. In some instances he practises the
system of self-mesmerism ; in others, he appears in a lazy,
dreamy state, to be cognisant of things beyond the power of
the senses.
VOICE CIRCLES IN NATAL.
4. Those with familiar spirits are the most remarkable.
The diviner of this order does nothing apparently. He merely
sits still, and the answers are given by voices at a distance
from him, which are supposed to be the voices of the spirits
which are his familiars.
But perhaps I cannot better bring before you the particu¬
lars of this class than by giving you two accounts which I
received from eye-witnesses.
A native, named Unkomidhlilall, took a young wife ; she
had several children, but all died young? This, of course, was
supposed to be occasioned by magic or medicine. After
trying many doctors in vain he went to Umancele who had
familiar spirits. He obtained from him a promise to go to
his kraal on the morrow, but they were prevented several
days by rain. When he brought the diviner into the hut of
the sick person, and the others collected there to salute them,
they were startled by having their salutation answered by a
slender, squeaking voice coming from the roof of the house.
The spirits called the chief man by his proper name without
having been told it. And as they were waiting for the
diviner to do something, he said, “ For my part I cannot give
you a single word one way or another. There are masters
who will answer you.”
Those spiritual, invisible masters, however, were of a very
material mercenary turn of mind, and began by demanding
payment. “ We cannot,” they exclaimed, “ divine unless you
pay us. Do you not see we have come to help you ? Give us
a bullock that we may show you the things which are killing
you.” The people looked at the diviner; he was sitting still,
with closed mouth. They stared at each other, asking whence
the voice came which demanded a bullock. But the bullock
is brought, and the invisibles are thus addressed, “ Here is
your bullock, my masters. Truly if you are come to give me
life again.I cannot refuse you a bullock, even though it is the
last. All my cattle have gone to the doctors. I give you the
only one that was left.” The spirits returned thanks, saying,
“ It is well. We see your bullock.”
The spirits being pleased with their pay, at once enter into a
detailed statement of the cause of their being inquired of,—the
nature of the disease,—its origin in the spite of a discarded
lover, who had placed a bag containing something obtained
from the wife’s person mixed with medicines under the fire¬
place of his hut. And this was the cause why all her children
died.
All this is delivered by the same slender, squeaking voice
coming from the roof of the hut, whilst the diviner sits a quiet
and impassive listener.
But the spirits are not going to tell the cause of the disease
only. They can remove it. They are very bold in their pro¬
mises. They say, “ But we spirits can go and take it from the
place where it is buried, and bring it here and show it to you. ”
Yes, that was the spirits’ remedy, to remove the cause by dig¬
ging up from under the fireplace the death-causing poison
bag. And these spirits are still influenced by earthlV feelings
and jealousies and miseries. They say, “ We cannot advise
you to go to the doctor’s for advice, nor to those who will
promise you to cause that bag of poison which is injuring you
to rest where it is, and so. lose its power. Such promises
are vain. Such doctors can do nothing. We spirits,
however, will go to the place and dig it up for you. We
will go to-morrow. To-day we are tired; we are going to
rest.”
> Others hearing this wonderful revelation and these brigtrb
promises are induced to come forward and consult the spirits
too on their own "account. They well knew who the discarded
lover was to whom the spirits pointed. And they all
began to call up aches and pains, and inconveniences
and misfortunes, and all were attributed to the magical
medical power of the same man. And the spirits humour
their fancies. One, they said, was being injured by the
working of scent poison, because being an ugly man he
had married a pretty wife, which the other coveted. And
long ago he would have died, but the spirits of his ancestors
had hitherto prevented it. But the sorcerer was enticing in
his malice, and the ancestral spirits had ceased to help. There
was but one remedy for him too. The spirits would go and
dig up the poison bag and bring it to him, that he might see
it; and then he would get well and strong.
On the following morning the spirits asked for food before
setting out on their journey. The meat and beer were placed
before the diviner and his followers, and the spirits received
sustenance through their digestions. The spirits being satis¬
fied deliver the following parting speech:—“ We thank you.
We are now going with the spirits of your own people ; with
Ukqulen and Ubotongwane, and all the people of your house.
We do not say we shall get ,that which is destroying you
without difficulty ; but we shall conquer and bring back that
which we are going for. So good-bye.”
Three days the people waited in wondering expectation. If
they asked the diviner when the spirits would return, he could
not tell them ; he knew no more than they did. In the mean
time the diviner and his attendants ate and drank and enjoyed
themselves.
On the fourth day, at noon, a voice is suddenly heard speak¬
ing as before. One spirit only had come and announced his
presence by saying, “ I have come !” The diviner asked,
“Who are you?” The spirit gave his name. “ And where
are the rest ?” asked he again, in apparent astonishment and
alarm. The spirit replied, “ Oh, we are troubled. They are
still fighting with the enemy. They are stabbing us; they
will not let us dig up the poison. But we, too, have our men,
and are fighting with them. I have come to ask for food.
We are hungry. I am going back again. I shall not sleep
here.”
As before the diviner and his attendants eat the food, and
the spirit returns thanks and departs.
Two days after, as they were sitting talking in the hut,
they heard the spirits speaking at the upper end; they said,
“ Cease your noise. We are come. But we are not all here.
Some have been carried away by the river.” And their names
were given. But the spirits had brought the things they had
gone to fetch. They had taken all up, but some of these, too,
had been carried away by the river.
The spirits then detailed the mighty acts of their army dur¬
ing the engagement with the spirits of the other side, and
related that they ultimately conquered by setting fire to the
hut; and when the fire was out they dug up the poison-bags,
which they promised to exhibit on the morrow.
The morrow came. A hut was cleared and swept, and the
older people collected. As they were speaking the spirits
commanded them to arrange themselves and to keep perfectly
quiet. They waited and watched. Presently they heard
something fall on the floor, then another, and then another
followed. The spirits at length said, “ Collect them. All are
now here.” When they were collected the spirits told them
to whom they severally belonged, mentioning each by name,
and directed them to take them to the river and open them,
and cast them into the running stream, and then disease and
suffering would cease in the kraal.
So they Went and spread them out by the water side. Some
found their' beads which they had lost long ago ; some found
earth bound up ; others found pieces of some old garment;
others shreds of something they had worn ; all found some¬
thing belonging to them. They threw them into the river,
and they were carried away.
The people, seeing these things, believed. On the morrow
the diviner was given his bullock, and left with the blessing
of the too credulous inhabitants of the village. “ Go in peace,
our masters,” they exclaimed; “ we have seen your skill, and
we are now looking forward to our recovery.”
But the recovery ea/me not!
We cannot but be vexed at such a conclusion. And if we
feel sure that there was in the affair a great deal of rascality
and deception, we feel that there was also a great deal of skill
which baffles all attempts at explanation, and a great deal of
knowledge of details of the past history and habits of the
kraal possessed by the diviner, the source of which it Lis be¬
yond our power to conceive.
[We omit the l second account given by Canon Calloway
about a voice circle in Natal, because we published it some
months ago.]
CONCLUSION.
We have now reached the conclusion of our subject. It has
given me much pleasure to arrange and commit to writing the
thoughts which have been gathering in my own mind for
years. I fear I have, however, wearied you by its excessive
length. But there remains still untold more than has been
written. For I had not access to many works to which I
wanted to refer : on the Fakirs of India, for instance, and the
medicine man of America. Neither have I alluded to pheno¬
mena of the same kind occurring among the hermits of Great
Britain, which are of the same character and quite as re¬
markable as those detailed of St. Antony or Hilarion ; nor to
the experiences of the founder of the Franciscan Order ; nor
those of Loyola, the founder of Jesuitism. The Anabaptist
sect in Germany, and other similar sects in England, yield
abundant materials from which we may glean a confirmation
of the views expressed in this paper. The wonderful pheno¬
mena occurring epidemically in the middle ages, called the
dancing mania, are in themselves worthy of a paper equal in
length to what I have just read. And it is probable that in
the history of revivals in recent times we may be able to
detect a recurrence under other conditions of the same kind of
disturbance of the nervous system, as we have seen occurring
m heathen hierophants, Christian hermits, Indian fakirs, Zulu
diviners, and in the subjects of mesmerism.
We have seen that various causes are capable of producing
a similar condition of brain to that which is produced by the
presence of external things, and so affecting the mind in the
same way as it would be affected by objects actually present.
Among other causes was mentioned the mind itself. We said
that it is able, by an exertion of the will, to raise a spectre.
We have also seen that the will of one person can in like
manner be exerted on the mind of another, and cause it to
feel and think as he pleases, and to see spectres. It may,
therefore, turn out to be really a fact that good and evil spirits
also, in accordance with common belief in all ages of the
world, act on the human mind in the same way, and may pro¬
duce illusions of the eye, ear, or general sensation by acting
on the brain in a way similar to that of disease, blood, medi¬
cines, mesmerism, a person’s own will, or that of another. At
least as men of science we must admit that allowing the
existence of an Eternal Spirit, and of spirits of an inferior
order, there is not only nothing impossible, but on the con¬
trary, there is the utmost probability that they should be in
some relation to man, and be able to act in some way or other
on the human mind. And the various facts we have been con¬
sidering, proving that the mind can be acted on by powers
without itself, and independent of material agents, seem at
least to intimate the mode in which that action may be
effected ; that is by producing in the brain a condition-
similar to that which is necessary to convey to the mind a
knowledge of the outer world. And as it is necessary in
order that one mind should be able to act on another that the
two minds should be in a certain relation to each other ; so
we may suppose that the mind, is capable of being influenced
by either good or evil spirits only when it is in a state of
sympathetic relation with them.
And it is possible that by a careful collection and con¬
sideration of facts which it is now very much the .fashion with
men of science to set aside as'belonging to accidents and co¬
incidence, we may be led to, conclude that whilst such pheno¬
mena, occurring, as they do, at all times of the world, in all
conditions of society, and in persons holding the most oppo¬
site religious creeds, cannot be ascribed to the direct agency
of good or evil spirits alone, yet they may be intimations that
not only can the soul of man look out on the world around
him and become cognisant of it through the organs of sense,
but that it can look in another direction, and without the
organs of sense obtain a knowledge both of what is going on in
the world beyond the sphere of the sense, and even look into
futurity, and hold communion' with the invisible world of
spirits.   
The special work of the Anthropological Institute is to
study man as a science ; it has therefore neglected its duty
for many years in not taking up the subject of Spiritualism,
and collecting reliable information about the means of com¬
munication between the living and the so-called “ dead.”
Spiritualism in Rome.—A private letter informs us
that there is a society of Spiritualists in Rome, under the pre¬
sidency of Signor Felice Scifoni, a gentleman who holds a
Government appointment in the city, and who is devoted to
the cause of Spiritualism. The secretary to the society is
Signor Achille Tanfani, a good English scholar, and a devoted
Spiritualist. The chief physical medium to the society has
been Sapia Paddalino ; she is quite uneducated, being unable-
either to read or write, and her health is not good. She has
been the means of developing a few writing mediums in
Naples, in the persons of educated professional men, and she
removed from Naples to Rome at the cost of the spiritual
society there. Our informant does not give the number of
members of the society, or the time it has been established,
but says that the members find it very up-hill work at pre¬
sent, to disseminate Spiritualism in Rome. Signor Tanfani is
the author of the pamphlet which we notice in another
column. The society at Rome is now interesting itself in
spirit photographs, and has some of Mr. Hudson’s under
examination. We wish them joy in the matter. They never
saw such photographs before, and will be none the worse if
they never do so again. Signor Damiani is in Naples.
Nov. 1, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
85
Htterarg Notices,
Spiritisch-rationalistische Zeitschript. Leipzig:
Oswald Mutze. October, 1872.
The seventh number of this periodical has just come
to hand. The first and popular part contains an able
article by Dr. J. Chavanne on spiritual manifestations.
The author holds that the amount of true spiritual reve¬
lation obtained from a trance medium is but small in
comparison with what is actually uttered. He says
that, ninety-five per cent, of the communications ob¬
tained at seances are not calculated to increase our
knowledge, but, on the contrary, contain views that are
quite untenable. A positive gain is not achieved, and
yet that is, or ought to be, the aim of every genuine
spiritual communication. He admits that no moral
harm is done, but is naturally desirous of having first-
rate quality only. A lady writer criticises The Philo¬
sophy of Unconsciousness, a work by E. Y. Hartmann.
Man, in all his actions and aspirations is moved and
driven as it were by an interior something of which he
is, however, unconscious. It is neither his mind, soul,
nor spirit. The organic being is merely the tool of this
unconscious principle. It acts in obedience to its dic¬
tates, and not to the conceptions of its own brain. The
theory is illustrated by the foresight and untaught
knowledge of the animal, which is acted upon by a
similar hidden impulse.
The second or scientific part of the paper contains
some philosophical criticisms on the Count Poninski’s
treatise on body, soul, and spirit.' The critic holds that
the human soul is but a potentiated animal soul. The
animal soul is an undeveloped spirit, and soul and spirit
in man are, after all, but synonymous terms. He
quotes the common notion of man as consisting of body
and soul in substantiation of his case. Some literary
notices finish the number.
Lo Spiritismo Dimostrato e Dieeso ; Memoria di
Achille Tanpani. Home: L. Cecchini. 1872.
This pamphlet opens with a letter from Dr. Alexan¬
dre Angelini asserting that what the orthodox condemn
as from the devil is calculated to bring about a living
faith in God, who gave immortality to the human soul.
The author'passes in review the various authorities on
spiritual subjects, especially Keichenbach and the Scrip¬
tures. He then shows how Spiritualism has progressed
in several countries, especially in America and England,
and he expresses hopes that it will run a similar course
in Italy. He calculates that there are no less than
seventy-two Spiritual periodicals written in English,
three in German, and eight in French.
PHEENO-MESMERISM.
BY HENRY G. ATKINSON, F.G.S.
I see that Canon Calloway, like Dr. Collier in
America, attributes the remarkable phenomena of
phreno-mesmerism to a sympathy set up between the
mesmeriser and his patient; and, no doubt, sympathy,
or the transfer of thought and feeling from one person
to another, as by a contagion, is a very important fact,
and accounts for much that occurs, but cannot account
for facts which occur when it is absent; and we must
not hastily generalise from particular cases. But as
Mr. Wallace said in respect to instinct, each case
must be considered on its own merits, keeping in view
all the difficulties in our way, and all the objections
that have been urged.
How as the discoverer of phreno-mesmerism, I beg
to say that there was no such sympathy or thought
transfer in the cases from which I drew my conclusion.
Different mesmerisers, like different mediums, produce
or induce different results, and thought-reading was not
one of the phenomena that occurred with my patients.
Besides the whole question was so carefully and so fully
tested, and in such a variety of ways, as to leave no
possible doubt in respect to the genuineness of the facts
and of the power to act directly on the different parts
of the brain of a mesmerised subject, or upon any sense
or other portion of the body : and thus, by isolating the
furiction, have a means of analysis you could not
obtain by any other method. So that the late Mr,
Jackson was quite justified in his opening address to
the Psychological Society in laying great stress on the
important bearings of this new means of investigation.
But if people prefer to read and talk and guess rather
than go through the labour of investigation, I cannot
help it. The facts were published thirty years ago,
and were again alluded to in my letters which Miss Mar-
tineau published twenty years ago. But, so far as I
know, no one has, since that, taken the trouble to
investigate the matter, and put the question fairly to
Nature herself as to whether the alleged facts were
true and genuine,. or not. Depend upon it, the
large range of correlated facts under the term mes¬
merism, or animal magnetism, must form the basis of
the science of man and mind, and Canon Calloway
seems to be quite aware of the fact, as his remarks
and attempted explanations of certain abnormal phe¬
nomena clearly show. Henry G. Atkinson,
Hotel Royal, Boulogne-sur-Mer,
October 20th, 1872.
PRIYATE SEANCES.
[Reported by permission.)
SEANCE AT MRS. MAKDOTTGAiL GREGORY’S.
Last Friday, at a seance at Mrs. L. M. Gregory’s,
21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W., the guests
present were Mrs. Strong, Mr. J. T. Peele (the artist),
Mr. T. H. Noyes, jun., B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford,
and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Miss Louisa Hudson was the medium. In the course
of the evening she went into the clairvoyant state, and
said that near one of the visitors she saw a spirit, a tall
and loosely-knit man, who looked “ as if his limbs did
not belong to him.” The spirit was anxious to make
known to his relative some circumstances relating to
some papers. Another spirit with a blue bag, who
looked like a lawyer, also wanted to reveal something
about the papers, but they had not yet found the
medium through whom they could make known all
they wished to say. The first spirit woyld, however,
succeed in the end, and the gentleman would receive
the information through a medium when he least
expected it. She saw the papers. They were in a
gloomy room, in a drawer close down by the floor;
they were yellow, and did not smell nice ; they looked
more like parchment than papers. She could not read
the writing on them, nor tell in what part of the
country the room was.
One of the visitors then said that he thought the
message to relate to a will which he had long supposed
to be missing, and that the loosely-knit body spoken of
by the medium was a marked characteristic of the
members of one branch of his family.
Mrs. Strong questioned the medium about a gentle¬
man who, at last, Miss Hudson said she saw. He was
fretting, and had a pain in his back. Mrs. Strong
said that she knew that he was unwell, and had a pain
in his back. She did not know that he was fretting.
No leading question about “ a pain in the back” was
put to Miss Hudson, but she made the remark herself,
quite voluntarily. There was a similar abstention from
leading questions in the case of the alleged will.
The other statements made during the evening were
for the most part misty and difficult to understand,
being symbolical in their nature. Miss Hudson, for
instance, saw different kinds of flowers over the heads
of ,the guests, each flower, it was explained, being
symbolical of some work which the individual had to
do in life.' Some of the flowers were imperfectly
formed, signifying that the work was not being done in
the most complete way. A.s with all trance mediums,
the messages were partly influenced by her own thoughts,
without iiei- knowing It. In nearly air spiritual revela¬
tions, the great difficulty is to separate that which is of
spiritual and that which is of earthly origin.
SEANCES AT MR. COOK’S.
On Tuesday, October, 15th, at a seance held at the
house of Mr. Cook, of Hackney, among the visitors were
Mrs. Rudd and Miss Ponder, of Hayter-road, Brixton,
also Mr. B. Pycock, of Surrey-street, Strand, and a
gentleman from Norfolk. Miss Cook (aged sixteen),
was, of course, the medium.
She entered the cabinet described in our last, was
shut in, and in a few minutes had her wrists firmly tied
jn front of her with hard knots ; there were also knots
about the waist; the two terminal knots of the rope
were on the two back legs of the chair, one on one side
of the medium, and the other on the other. The
stranger from Norfolk was asked to examine all the
knots, and to seal them with wax, which he did.
The doors were then shut, and the medium was en¬
tranced. First Katie’s face, very much like the
medium’s, as usual, came to the opening in its white
drapery. Then it went away, and a dark brown,
nearly black face, wrapped round with white drapery,
came to the same opening. This face bore a stronger
light than it ever had borne before, and Katie said that
in a few more sittings it would bear as strong a light as
her own. Katie then said, “ Put little Edie to bed at
once; I have taken an immense quantity of power
from her to-night.” It was then noticed that little
Miss Edith Cook, aged four, who was sitting in front of
the cabinet, as usual, was leaning forwards with a very
pale face, and that she was bleeding freely at the nose.
She was put to bed at once.
When the doors were opened the medium was found
in a deep trance, as usual. When she had been
awakened, the stranger from Norfolk was asked to ex¬
amine the seals and knots, which he did very carefully,
and found them just as he had left them. He was then
asked to free the medium by cutting the rope, and to
take his knots and seals home with him for examination
at his leisure, which he did.
After one of the usual breaks of twenty minutes,
Miss Cook entered the cabinet again, and in a short
time was found with both her wrists tightly tied
together with a piece of blue ribbon, by means. of
several knots, and further fastened by another double
knot to the back rail of the chair. The visitor from
Norfolk was asked to untie the knots; he tried for
some minutes, and failed; as it was not desired to cut
the ribbon, it was resolved to ask Katie to undo it.
The doors of the cabinet were closed, and in a short
time Katie put the whole length of ribbon out of the
opening without a knot in it. The visitor said he was
much impressed by this, as the medium’s hands were
not free, and knots had been undone in the dark which
he had failed in his attempts to untie in the light.
While the medium was tied, Katie had taken out her
hair pins, and fixed them in different parts of the paper
of the cabinet; afterwards> as she was in a freakish
humour, she made the medium stand upright, almost on
tiptoe, and fixed her by a portion of the hair of her head,
in a curious manner, to one of the bolts; several hair¬
pins were used in this operation, and twisted into the
hair.
Afterwards another face came, not much unlike the
face of the medium, who was not tied; so this was not
a test manifestation, except to those friends who have
implicit faith in Miss Cook.
Since the foregoing paragraphs were in type, and
just before going to press, we received the following
letter—
To the Editor of The Spiritualist.
Sib,—Being fortunate enough to receive an invitation to a
private seance with Miss Cook, I found myself on the evening
of the 15th ult., in company with two ladies and a gentleman,
a guest at her residence at Hackney. After half an hour’s
conversation we descended into the breakfast rooin, an apart¬
ment about 12 feet square by 74 feet high, A recess, of about
4 feet by 2 feet, by the side of the chimney, had been partly
enclosed by a pair of doors, an opening, about 14 inches
square, being left above them, for displaying any spirit faces-
“ Katie King, jun.” might manufacture. The medium was a
lady of sixteen, singularly pretty and equally frolicsome. I
carefully examined this cabinet, to convince myself and any
friends to whom I might relate my evening’s adventures, that
all was fair and honest. Scarcely five minutes had elapsed
after the medium had seated herself in the cabinet, and the-
door been closed, when we heard Katie’s whispering voice, and
Miss Cook told us she had securely bound her to the chair
she sat on by a cord which had been placed in the cabinet
for that purpose. The doors were then unlocked, and
the medium was seen securely bound by her wrists, her
neck, and her waist, to the chair. I carefully sealed the-
knots; the doors were again closed, and the customary sing¬
ing resorted to. The room was sufficiently lighted by a lamp to
enable us clearly to see the aperture in the cabinet. Katie
King’s face was soon visible, and afterwards that of a spirit
called “ Tecumseh.” Soon after each spirit face appeared, the
light was thrown full upon it, giving us a clear view of its-
countenance and its snow-white head-dress. Katie wished me
to have the knots I had sealed, which, upon examination,
finding intact, I cut off, and have now in my possession. As
the breakfast-room had by this time become very close, we all
adjourned upstairs, and, after having a glass of wine together,..
Miss Cook again entered the cabinet. This time Katie bound
her so securely with a piece of blue ribbon, that when the
doors were opened, I found it impossible to untie it; yet, when
the doors were again closed, Katie showed her superior skill by
doing in the dark what I had failed to do in the light. She-
ttre-w tRe ribbon out of the cabinet for our inspection. Two
other faces appeared; and Katie “ did wondrously; ” indeed,
she spoke and acted in a way far from according with common
ideas of the perfect dignity and equanimity of the departed.
Allow me in conclusion to say that, for the sake of com¬
parison, I had the same day seen Pepper’s Ghost, but found a
perfect contrast in the elaborate contrivances for producing an
optical illusion at the Polytechnic, and the impossibility of
even attempting deception at Mr. Cook’s.
Holt, Norfolk, October 28th, 1872. Horace Hevwood.
On Friday, October 18th, among the visitors present
were the author of the Unorthodox London letters in.
the Daily Telegraph, two photographers well known in
the profession, Miss Kislingbury, and two other ladies.
At one of the sittings on this evening, Katie passed a
piece of tape once round the waist of Miss Cook, and tied
it tight in a double knot behind her back; then, with
another double knot, she tied it to the second horizontal
rail of the back of the chair. The gentleman from the
Daily Telegraph then carefully sealed both the knots.
Under these conditions it was simply impossible for
Miss Cook to get on the chair, or to stand up facing the
door. The phair has always to be placed sideways, the
cabinet not being deep enough to permit it to stand
facing the door with anybody in it.
Then a nearly black face, with closed eyes, and sur¬
rounded with white drapery, came to the opening, and
bore the full light of the lamp for a minute or two. It
went away, after which a great white, unhappy-looking
face, half as big again as the face of the medium, and
bearing no resemblance to her, came to the opening. It
tried to speak, but could not.
When the door was opened. Miss Cook was found
entranced, as usual. The knots and seals were un¬
broken, and, at the request of the company, were cut off
by the Daily Telegraph correspondent, and taken home
by him for examination. It was a good test seance.
Two of the other visitors said they had been led to
expect that the faces were like that of the medium, but
it was not so at all at this part of the evening’s sittings.
The next three seances were all failures. On Wed¬
nesday, October 23rd, Mr. Blackburn brought four gen¬
tlemen from Manchester. From the delicate nature of
Miss Cook’s mediumship so many sceptics had never
been introduced at once to a seance with her before.
Her extreme anxiety to get a good seance, coupled with
the mental annoyance caused by rumours having reached
her that a story was circulating among the neighbours
that she was a spiritual impostor, so dispirited her that
nothing could be obtained. The gentlemen did all they
could to reassure her. We never saw disbelievers treat
a medium more kindly, but there were no manifesta-'
m
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 1, 1872.
tions. It was the same the following night. A con¬
versation before the seance dispirited her, and the
weather was wet and damp; Katie’s face was seen for
a moment, but as the medium was not tied, it amounted
to nothing in the eyes of strangers. Last Sunday there
was a similar failure ; Katie’s face was seen, but the
seals on the knots were accidentally broken.
We were asked a few . days ago by Mr., Mrs., and
Miss Cook, and by the gentleman who has generously
saved from professional mediumship a young lady alto¬
gether unfitted for that kind of life, to take the entire
charge of this spirit circle, and the admission of visitors
to it. There is some responsibility about this, but from
confidence in the medium, and in Mr. and Mrs. Cook,
extending „ over two years, we undertake the work.
Before strangers were admitted, and while the medium
was happy and at ease, the manifestations were increas¬
ing with remarkable power. Recently there have been
three failures. The best thing to do will be to surround
her once more with old friends at the seances, and to
admit only one stranger at a time, or two, if the mani¬
festations will bear it. The phenomena are always
slower in development in a circle used for proselytising
purposes, than in a strictly private one, because of the
more frequent checks and failures in the former case,
but more especially from the medium having more
trouble and anxiety of mind. The manifestations are
born of the spirit, and shrink from the touch of earth.
The conditions for obtaining them with power are
chiefly mental and spiritual in their nature, a most
important condition being that the medium shall be
thoroughly happy. There are many applications for
seances with Miss Cook, and it will take some time to
give those sittings which have already been promised.
A SWEDENBORGIAK MINISTER ON SPIRITUALISM.
A TEW Sundays ago the Rev. Mr. Austin lectured on
the “ Spirit World ” to his congregation at the Sweden-
borgian Church, Camberwell. He said that men wanted
to know more about the spirit world, but that too much
of such knowledge was not good for them. It was not
good to have more than superficial outlines, and with
these they must be content till they entered another
and a higher sphere. Yet men are too material in
their ideas because they know too little about the other
world. It is desirable to know a little; for instance,
if a man were going to Australia, it would be wisest to
learn a little about the place before he left England, in
order to make some suitable preparations for the
change. If friends said to him, “ Wait,” or, “ Do not
inquire,” the advice would savour of folly rather than
wisdom. It was, therefore, reasonable to ask, “ What
is the nature of the spirit-world, and what are its
laws ? ” Materialists cannot say what is the nature of
matter, and can only‘recognise it by the forms in which
it presents itself. Why,] then, should there not be the
same difficulties in the way of defining the nature of
spirit ? Spiritual things are substantial; if we suppose
them to be otherwise our ideas are confused. By
“ substance ” he meant something which had an exist¬
ence of its own, just like clay or iron. Some Chris¬
tians say that spirit and matter are opposed to
each other; it is true that they are not the same,
but it does not follow that they are opposed. If the
body lasts but a few years, but the spirit within lasts for
millions*of years, must not the spirit be the more sub¬
stantial of the two ? If there be angels, they also must
be substantial, living in a substantial world, and it
follows that the things in a substantial world must have
form—length, breadth, and shape. In the Bible angels
were always spoken of as men, having form and shape.
When John fell down to worship, the angel said, “ See
thou do it not, for I am thy fellow-servant, and of thy
brethren the prophets. Worship God.” Thomas Paine
argued that John’s vision was subjective; that the
angel existed only in his own mind. Another theory
was that every time an angel came to man a miracle
was wrought, and the angel became temporarily clothed
with flesh. Could they believe that ? An angel was
only a man who had gone to his eternal home. It
might be said they had no facts to prove it. He had
no intention of speaking of what was known as
Spiritualism, but it was his solemn duty to say that it
was a great mistake to assert that they of the New
Church were Spiritualists, or favoured the views put
forth by Spiritualists. In ordinary life spiritual facts
were rarely seen, because the organisation of man was fit
only for the material and not the spiritual world. He
wished, in all kindness, to say that he thought that the
very common orthodox teaching that the spiritual world
was not substantial, tended to land the hearers in a fog;
it was the same with the popular ideas about the Al¬
mighty, who must in reality be an Infinitely Divine
Man,
Me. Charles Blackettrx, of Manchester, who is cog¬
nisant of the falge statements which have been printed by the
two mediums about what occurred in Mr. Henry Morris’s
house in Manchester, has raised his subscription towards the
fortnightly publication of the Spiritualist fxom £10 to £15,
“ because of his satisfaction at the exposure of the spirit pho¬
tograph imposture.”
SPIRITUALISM IN ISLINGTON.
MISS KEEVES’ TEANCE MEDITTMSHIP.
On Monday evening, October 21st, a public meeting of
Spiritualists and their friends was held at 102, Balls Pond-
road, Islington, to hear some addresses through the trance-
mediumship of Miss Keeves. The admission was free. Mr.
T. Blackburn was requested to preside.
After a few remarks from the chairman, Miss M. A. Keeves,
the medium, passed into the trance state, and the communi¬
cating spirit said that Spiritualism was either a great truth or
a great folly. An ancient writer had instructed Christians to
“ try the spirits ” with whom they communicated. St. John
did this because, like modern Spiritualists, he knew that
rogues and thieves passed from earth to the other side of life,
and when there had the same characteristics; when a man
took off an old coat and put on a new one, the man himself
was not changed ; in like manner when he threw off his mortal
body, he had but parted with an outer garment. It was the
living spirit within which empowered a man to lift his bodily
arm, and to walk the streets of London; people knew that
they had the power to produce such motions, biit seldom
paused to inquire “ Why ? ” The life which every man lived
on earth, would stamp his character for eternity, and through
all eternity the minds of men would never be the same; they
would be as diversified as the flowers of the field, and because
of that diversification required the “ many mansions ” spoken
of by one of old. In the next world there was progression
upwards and onwards, just as upon earth. When a man first
enters the spirit world, he is better off than he was upon earth,
because he has more freedom of action, and because he loses
some of the earthly ties which kept him back. Inquirers often
looked upon spirits as deities, and questioned them as if they
knew everything, but it was not so; in fact, what he (the
spirit) was saying that night ought to be weighed in the
balance of their own reason, and if it did not come up to their
standard, they ought to reject it. Truth was born with man.
Infants were born in purity, but surrounding circumstances
created by the condition of human society, afterwards made
them sinful; children were little flowers which should be care¬
fully trained up. When Spiritualism covers the world, as the
waters cover the mighty deep, the next generations would be
wiser and happier, and mankind would know that all men
were equal in the sight of God; men will then do right, not
from fear of eternal punishment, but because it is right and
best to do good rather than evil. There was no such thing as
eternal punishment;. let them look on nature and its beauty,
and ask whether God had created some of his creatures to
cast them away for ever ? Beason-and common sense answered
“No.” The great and loving I'ather never created any living
thing, without intending it to be happy, and Jesus, the great
teacher, had rent in twain the veil between this world and the
next, that men might take a peep at the world of happiness on
the other side. Spiritualism ought to be studied as a science.
Did they think that God had given them an intellect to
examine and take pleasure from His works, and then said to
thern, “ Thus far shalt thou go and no further?” Reason
answered, “ No.” If men were compelled always to walk in
the narrow groove of the thoughts of their ancestors, how
could they ever have obtained the gaslights which illuminated
the hall that night ? It was an impious thing to say that
God ever came to puny man and commanded, “ Thus far
shalt thou go and no further;” on the contrary, men should
scientifically study all the works of God, and then make known
His wondrous ways for their own good and for the good of
Humanity. Education was giaduaillj- tcaoHiiag naon better
things, and their children would be happier in consequence of
being less bound by the dogmas of the past. The religion of
the day was a sham; people would go on lying and cheating
each other all the week, then on the Sunday go to church and tell
the loving Jesus that they were “ miserable sinners,” beheving j
that then He would bear their sins, and that they would go |
straight to heaven; there never was a greater mistake, and
such worship was a mockery in the sight of God. When they
reached the other side of the grave they would find every act
of their lives staring them in the face, notwithstanding all their
external religious ceremonies in the world below. Spiritualism
would teach every man that in the next world he must stand
for himself, and answer for his own sins; the mask manufac¬
tured by earthly theology will then drop off his face, and he
will have to answer personally for all the deeds done in the
body. As he (the spirit) was controlling a trance medium and.
not a physical medium, they might think that the medium was
doing it all herself; he advised such to form spirit circles in
their own homes; if they could not trust members of their
own families in their own homes, how could they expect any
outside evidence to satisfy them? Before leaving, he wished
to state that the greatest happiness man could enjoy, would be
derived from doing good to others*
At the close of the above address by a spirit who gave the
name of Henry Tyrrell, the medium sat down and closed her
eyes, then began coughing, as the controlling influence left
her. This is often the case with trance mediums; for instance,
when the spirits give up their control of Miss Hudson she
usually gives a single violent expulsion of breath, as if blow¬
ing something out of her mouth, then wakes up.
Miss Keeves, when once more under spirit influence, opened
her eyes, stood up and said that geology proves that many of
the pebbles upon the sea-shore took millions upon millions of
years to form, whereas, till very recently, theologians taught
that they were formed within the short space of six thousand
years; they now explain away their former teachings by say¬
ing, “ A day with the Lord is as a thousand years,” and that
the six days of creation were not days of twenty-four hours.
How wise they were getting! If people would only gain know¬
ledge enough to read the history of a single pebble, they would
learn from it mightier truths respecting the works and ways
of God than they would ever get in churches-and chapels. As
the people grow wiser, men will begin to think for themselves,
and cease to pay theologians to do their thinking for them. The
people who lead the best lives on earth will be best off on the other
side of the grave, quite irrespective of their theological opinions.
The heaven painted by the orthodox had no real existence;
for instance, one of the chief pleasures of a mother in the
spirit world was to watch over her children left upon earth.
His name was John Williams.
A Listener.—Tyrrell told us to f try the spirits,” but he was
off too fast for us to try him. (Laughter.)
John Williams:—That was because you did not question
him when you had the chance. I am here. Try me.
The gentleman paused, and at last remarked that he had
no questions to ask.
Miss Keeves was next controlled by a spirit who gave the
name of Thomas Phelps. He said that on earth he was a
preacher who taught his people to lead lives of love and mercy;
he kept his teachings so free from dogma as to remain only
just orthodox enough to keep within the pale of the Church.
When he reached the other side of the grave, he found out
that the kingdoms of hell and heaven were inside, and not
outside, the hearts of men—hell and heaven were mental
states. The spirits above had never seen God as a person;
but, like men upon earth, they saw Him only in His works.
Miss Keeves was then controlled by another spirit, who told
a gentleman in the audience that the spirit of a man who ap¬
peared to be about sixty years of age was standing near him; he
had a round face, bald head, gave the name of Benjamin, and
wished to find some method of communicating with him ; he
had better try and form a spirit circle in his own home. The
medium under the same control, said that the Spirituahsts of
London should form schools for children, and teach them how
to improve their bodies as well as their minds; education
ought to be made a pleasure, and much of it might be imparted
in the open air, among the fields and flowers. The physical
frames of children ought to be strengthened, and girls should
have much more exercise than at present.
A visitor wanted to know whether all the spirits were Uni¬
tarians, as he had heard nothing but Unitarian addresses that
night.
The Chairman said that spirits held all kinds of religious
opinions, especially those who had only just left earth life, and
carried their convictions with them into the next world. If
Trinitarianism were true, all Unitarian spirits would become
Trinitarians, after they gained more knowledge iri the next
fife; if Unitarianism were true, it would in time make con¬
verts of Trinitarian spirits.
Mr. Joseph Stephens said that he had been turned out of
the Church for adopting Spiritualistic views, and he was not
allowed to explain to the whole body why he had changed his
opinions, so afraid were they of free discussion. He did not
say this out of any ill-feeling. He found that he could not
conscientiously teach children in the Sunday-school that which
he did not believe himself. He moved a vote of thanks to
Miss Keeves, who had attended without making any charge ;
he also moved a vote of thanks to the chairman.
These votes were carried by acclamation, and the meeting
broke up.
THE SHAM GHOST-ELCTUEES AGAIN.
Last Monday another free public meeting in connection
with Spiritualism was held at 102, Ball’s-pond-road, Islington,
under the presidency of Mr. T. Blackburn.
Mr. Thomas Shorter, in the course of a lecture on Spiritual¬
ism, said that the public mind was in worse than an unin¬
formed state on the subject, for it had been misinformed, and
that, too, by men to whom it had been accustomed to look for
instruction and guidance. Eminent men of science, as well as
some who were not eminent, had stated it to be imposture, or
delusion, after, in some cases, making a very little personal
investigation, but in most cases none at all. The pulpit, whilst
disagreeing with the men of science, and admitting the facts
to be real, and of spiritual origin, had called Spiritualism an
unholy prying into Divine mysteries, and the art of dealing
with diabolical spirits, as if God were unable to protect His
own mysteries, and to keep them from man if He desired to
do so, or as if there could be anything which God desired to
keep from his intelhgent and loving children. Then, again,
the press generally, but more especially the newspaper press,
had simply reflected the popular ignorance and clamour, very
rarely giving the facts a fair hearing. Recently there had
been a marked improvement in the tone of the press towards
Spiritualism, because Spiritualism has fought its way in the
teeth of the opposition of the newspapers; especially had this
iiaiprcrved. tone been vioiblo oinoo tHe publication Of tlie report
of the Committee of the London Dialectical Society. This
Society, composed chiefly of men of materialistic and sceptical
tendencies, appointed a committee to investigate the question,
thinking that thereby they would unmask a vast amount of
imposture and delusion; but, after two or three years’ inquiry,
they gave in a report which forms a bulky volume, and which
certifies that the phenomena are real, and due to unknown
causes not yet recognised by science. Another symptom of
the improved tone of the press was visible only a few days
ago, in the very fair description of a seance written by one of
the commissioners of the Daily Telegraph. It was a strong
argument in favour of the truth of Spiritualism, that it had
not only been able to hold its own for twenty years, but to
gain ground in the face of powerful and unfair opposition. He
then gave a brief outline of the history of modern Spiritualism,
beginning with the manifestations in the Fox family, at Hydes-
vilie, United States, a little more than twenty years ago. He
told how it travelled far and wide, over pine-clad mountains
and through deep valleys; how it found its way into the house
of the senator, the philosopher, and the merchant, as well as
into the home of the farmer and the camp of the miner. Then
it traversed the mighty ocean to spread through all the coun¬
tries of Europe, till, at the present day, it possessed scores of
periodicals, a literature of thousands of volumes, and a number
of organised societies in most of the chief cities of the world.
Next he reviewed the history of spirit photographs, telling
how the genuine character of Mr. Mumler’s pictures had been
established in a court of law; how Professor Gunning had
obtained spirit pictures, as well as Baron Kirkup and several
investigators on the Continent. Not a few also had been
obtained in London, not without, as might have been expected,
charges of imposture having been made. Spiritualism was a
most important subject, which inquirers should investigate at
home among their own friends. They would, of course, have to
work to gain the knowledge; but even in California nuggets
of gold were not found upon the highways, and truth was more
valuable than gold ; at all events, if his hearers did not think
so then, they would know it as a certainty in days to come.
They should strive to learn truth concerning their internal
nature, concerning that world which it was their destiny to enter
in the future, now the dwelling-place of those who have gone
before and who had been so tenderly loved on earth, who made
home holy, and sacred, and blessed by their presence. All these
vital questions were involved in the study of modem Spiritualism.
An Inquirer.—Where are these manifestations to be seen ?
Mr. Shorter said that probably those who called the meeting
together could tell him what manifestations could be seen in
the locality; he did not know himself. Professional mediums
avertised in the Spiritual periodicals, but by far the best plan
for an investigator was- to form a spirit circle in his own
home among his own friends. Very probably one of his own
family would be found to be a medium, and if the manifesta¬
tions werevweak at first they would gradually grow stronger.
The gentleman who made the inquiry said that he was a
Jew, a member of that religious body, many of whom had been
exiled and burnt by people who persecuted the followers of
a faith which taught men that the good Father above loves all
His children equally, and does not condemn some while
favouring others. The two sons who stood by his side he had
brought to that meeting, because he wanted them to learn
what was new, to see the world as it is, and if possible to sea
Nov. 1, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
87
some of the Spiritual manifestations, which, if true, tended
so strongly to confirm their ancient faith. The facts would
encourage his sons to believe in the religion in which they
had been brought up.
Mr. Shorter said that he was very pleased to hear such un¬
prejudiced remarks from a follower of such a grand and.
ancient faith. He had better form a circle at home ; possibly
one of his sons might prove to be a medium.
Mr. Webster said that he was one of the members of the
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, the mem¬
bers of which often obtained manifestations through his
mediumship. He would freely give the gentleman who had
asked the questions a few sittings on Wednesday evenings;
perhaps the gentleman and his sons would do well to join the
Dalston Society.
Mr. W. H. Harrison wished to say a few words. He agreed
with the accuracy, of nearly all that Mr. Shorter had said about
spirit photographs, but not with that part which implied that
there was little or no foundation for the published announce¬
ment that some of those made at Holloway were shams. He
was one of those who had made a careful iuvestigation into the
subject, and knew that parts of some of the pictures had had no
photographic origin at all, but had been elaborately worked in
by hand. He did not say this with the slightest bad feeling
towards the photographer, who was a man with a large family,
and who might have been surrounded by conditions which
should prevent people from judging his misdeeds too harshly.
Mr. Webster said that he had had a genuine spirit picture
taken at Holloway, on a marked plate; also some other photo¬
graphs respecting which he could not give an opinion; through
his own mediumship he had occasionally obtained spirit pic¬
tures with other photographers, and he was then trying further
experiments.
Mr. Harrison said that he did not dispute that genuine
spirit pictures had been produced at Holloway, and possibly
on every day of the week. That was no proof that shams had
not been mixed up with them. If Mr. Webster had obtained
one genuine one, it was no proof that another picture taken
an hour or a day before was not spurious. Writers on the
subject seemed to have a difficulty in grasping the idea that
two kinds of pictures could be produced in the same place.
He knew some of the pictures were genuine; he, in fact, had
been present when an optician went to the studio and obtained
a spirit picture, taken with his own camera and his own plates.
Mr. Shorter said that the admission that some genuine
spirit photographs had been obtained was sufficient to sup¬
port the argument he had advanced. He did not doubt the
excellence of Mr. Harrison’s motives, but he could not accept
his statements. The very picture of which Mr. Harrison had
spoken was taken by Mr. Slater, and bore strong marks of
double exposure, though it was only exposed once. Other
pictures had been exposed only once, yet bore marks of double
exposure; these negatives had been seen by three or four
people, but unfortunately they had been destroyed, a circum-
st'ance which would tend to act upon the minds of disbelievers
in Spiritualism against his testimony, but he could not help
that. Mr. Slater’s picture, however, was ^not destroyed, and
could be referred to.*
Mr. Harrison said that his friend, Mr. Shorter, through his
inexperience in photography, had misunderstood his remarks,
for he had not said a word that evening about doubly-exposed
ghost-pictures. He had spoken only of pictures doctored by
hand, worked upon industriously by a pointed instrument, so
that the collodion had actually been cut away ; he had one in
his possession which every photographer from John O’Groat’s
to Land’s End, who was an honest man, would condemn at
once, as produced from a negative doctored by hand, so that the
resulting prints were not specimens of pure photography at
all. If a man tore a piece off the Daily Telegraph, and told
Mr. Shorter that it was a specimen of direct spirit writing ob¬
tained at a spirit circle the night before, Mr. Shorter would
condemn it as not being writing at all, but printing. With
the same certainty and absence of doubt, all photographers
would unhesitatingly condemn the hand-worked pictures of
which he had spoken ; those only who had no knowledge of
photography might unwisely uphold the pictures as genuine,
just as a man who did not know the difference between writing
and printing, might believe and publish that a scrap of printed
matter torn off the Daily Telegraph was a specimen of genuine
spirit writing. To practical photographers both cases stood
upon exactly the same foundation, furnishing materials for
drawing conclusions with the same certainty. To the prac¬
tical photographer there was no difference between the two
cases whatever.
Mr. Shorter said that all the truths of Spiritualism had been
condemned, at one time or other, by practical men, chiefly
from their want of experience in the suspicious conditions
surrounding spiritual manifestations. His whole life had
furnished him with constant examples of the errors of practical
men in coming to hasty conclusions about spiritual manifesta¬
tions. Faraday, for instance, was an eminently practical man,
yet he had condemned the movement of solid objects at spirit
circles as the result of unconscious muscular action, and to the
end of his days clung with tenacity to a behef now generally
known to be erroneous. The circumstance of the first spirit
faces which have made themselves objectively visible, being
like the medium, as in the case of the Davenports and Miss
Cook, was a suspicious circumstance, yet investigation proved
the manifestations to be genuine. If pictures bore marks of
double exposure, it was no proof that there were not other
and spiritual methods of producing the marks.
Mr. Harrison said that Faraday had no practical knowledge
of Spiritualism, therefore was not a practical man, so the two
cases compared by Mr. Shorter bore no real relation to each
other. Who were the men who had condemned the sham
ghost pictures ? They were persons who in the interests of
Spiritualism and at the expense of time and money, kept
watch over the productions as they were issued. Nor, were
they as had been described, scientific men prejudiced against
Spiritualism, who, like the Eoyal Society, had condemned
without knowledge; in fact, they were Spiritualists, who had
unanimously condemned the pictures against their own in¬
clinations, for if they had any bias, it was in favour of
Spiritualism. He should like to state who they were. Oqe
was Mr. John Traill Taylor, editor of a photographic news¬
paper, a gentleman recognised as a reliable authority by the best
photographers in the kingdom. Was he a man biassed against
Spiritualism ? Not at all; on the contrary he was a Spiritualist
who had lectured on Spiritualism at Wood Green, and taken
upon himself all the obloquy which such open advocacy of
* This being news to us, we sent at once to Mr. Slater, the optician, 136,
Euston-road, though there was hut little time before gbing to press. By
return we received the following telegram from Mr. Slater —“ The Hollo¬
way photographs taken with my camera and plates while Hr Harrison was
present, contain no marks of double exposure.'1 Mr. Chstmpemowne’s alleged
picture is still withheld from public view, and all the essential facts on
which the Spiritual Magazine has based its photographic articles, have
proved on proper inquiry to be mare’s nests.—Ed.
Spiritualism brings upon its supporters. Another was Mr.
Samuel Guppy, also a clever photographer; surely it could not
be said of him that he had no knowledge of spiritual manifesta¬
tions, and the suspicious circumstances under which they some¬
times occur ? Mr. Guppy also had certified the first pictures
produced at Holloway to be genuine, so the evidence must have
been absolute indeed which turned him from his first course,
and made him publicly condemn some of the later pictures as
spurious. Another was Mr. Beattie, of Clifton, a gentleman
whose testimony as to the genuineness of certain spirit pic¬
tures had so influenced the editor of the Photographic News
that the said editor had told him (Mr. Harrison) that “ he was
staggered by it, for a more reliable observer of scientific pho¬
tographic facts than Mr. Beattie could not be found.” Was
Mr. Beattie prejudiced against Spirituahsm? Not at all He
was a thorough going Spiritualist, and had often written ac¬
counts of seances held m his own house, for the Spiritual Maga¬
zine, yet Mr. Beattie at once condemned some of the Holloway
pictures as the work of imposture. Another was himself (Mr.
Harrison), who among other sciences was practically and
theoretically educated in photography, and for years had been
an article writer for one of the photographic journals; he had
also had plenty of experience in Spiritualism. All the experi¬
enced and reliable men, who had given time and work to the
matter, and seen those of the pictures which were under dis¬
cussion, had condemned them without an exception, and with¬
out hesitation or doubt.*
Mr. Shorter said that they had not condemned them “ without
an exception.” He had recently called upon Mr. Guppy, as he
had been told that he ought to call upon him,"and had asked
him about the nature of the spirit photographs. Mr. Guppy
said to him, <“ I decline to say anything on the subject. ” Mrs.
Guppy, however, said that she was more inclined than before
to believe in the photographer’s innocence.
Mr. Harrison said that in Mr. Guppy’s published letters on
the subject he once described some of the later pictures by
means of the word “forgeries,” and had all along expressed
that opinion of them to him.
Mr. Shorter said he had not been without practical advice ;
he had taken an experienced photographer to Holloway, and
he could, see no signs of imposture either in the pictures on
view or in the operations in the studio.
Mr. Harrison said that after the public exposure he did not
suppose that the photographer kept sham pictures on view, or
that he would try to play tricks when the Editor of the Spiritual
Magazine attended with a practical photographer. Had Mr.
Shorter’s experience of the suspicious nature of certain spiri¬
tual phenomena had such an influence on his mind that if a
person gave him a bit of the Daily Telegraph, as a specimen
of direct spirit writing, he would beheve it ?
Mr. Shorter said that perhaps some person in Mr. Hudson’s
studio might, in consequence of the paihful charges afloat,
have tried to remove some of the alleged marks of double
exposure by stippling.
Mr. Harrison said that Mr. Shorter and himself had worked
together for years in such a friendly manner, he regretted that
even a difference of opinion should spring up. -
Mr. Shorter said that it was only a friendly discussion, all
in good part.
The proceedings closed with the usual votes of thanks.
tEomspontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRITUALITY, OR THE RELIGION OP NATURE.
Sir,—I have been charmed with Mr. Mul ford’s spirituality,
and think that it cannot be too clearly understood that true
spirituality does not consist in the belief in spirits, nor in any
other belief, since we witness all around us how people believe'
in God, and in a future existence, and are what is called
“ highly religious,” yet have nothing of that poetic spirituality
in one sense so well expressed by Mr. Mulford, of that fine
intellectual sympathy with all nature, animate and inanimate,
or rather as by a reflex from within, animating inanimate
nature, making the whole world kin as one .life-breathing-:
universe. Seeing or.r joys and hopes, and our sorrow' and ssd-,.
ness reflected in sea and cloud, in vale and mountain, in the ’
shade and in the sunshine, from morn to eve, and alf life’1
through finding “ tongues in the trees, books in the rmning
brook, sermons in stones, and good in everything.” Tins felt.
Shakespeare, who was himself the very “quintessence of
dust,” and finest example of a truly refined spirituality,^
heart, and soul, and intellect; the very genius o^ sympathy,
and most devout priest of nature, the power within embracing
the power that is without, the impulse of wonder in the sense
of beauty, variety, and unity, and in all the amazing flow and
ebb of life, with charity in its broadest sense intermingling
with the finest fancy. It was as the love of Plato, who sup¬
posed that with love, the soul of one person went forth into
the spirit of another, and was reflected back in a desire to
return, as the magnetised needle would return to the magnet,
and as world is attracted to world jn the universal affection
that prevailed throughout the universal being. But no doubt
there is a spirituality which is the worship of God in prayer
and praise. True, but not ifi image-worship, be the image
mental or pictorial. Gt'd is a spirit, and must be sought in
spirit, and in the spirit of all nature, in the soul that is with¬
in, and in its sympathy with the soul that is without, mani¬
fested in all the woadrous beauty that attracts us, as the moth
is drawn to all that is bright, as the plant turns to the sun.
In attraction and repulsion all is magnetic throughout; for in
our deep feeling and intelligent sympathising with all things
whatsoever, there must be selections and elections ; in search
for truth, or the discovery of beauty; in the impulse of
wondgr and of admiration, we must be touched with that sad
aspect of things which Humboldt so well referred to as the
toning of our natural enthusiasrq, like as in fine music and
the grander works of pictorial art. Then, again, life must
have its philosophy as well as its poetry, and find a noble con¬
solation by turns in each ; and not only so, it must have its
tragedy as well as its comedy. On this world’s stage every
man has his part to play, and one precept will not serve alike
for each and all. He is the sounder mind that can enjoy the
fullest and regret the least, and avoid indifference in a brave
and noble freedom, loving, hoping, and enduring all things to
the last; seeing that our spirituality does not fall into a cold
mysteries of nature, remembering that bigness is not great-
* The marks of trickery on the earlier pictures were so palpable, that
Mr. Enmore Jones, who bought copies as they were produced, detected
them, although he haa no practical knowledge of photography. Mr. Jones
was the first to warn us of something being wrong.—Ed.
ness, for there is as much mystery and wonder concentrated
in the exquisite form of the butterfly settling in our path, as
in the entire universe, which is but a multiplicity of parts.
Yes, pure spirituality is of the heart, and of the intellect, and
of the fancy. It is the feast of reason and the flow of soul
in wit, humour, and conversation ; it is in philosophy, poetry,
history, invention, and the fine arts, and it is all which lights
us above every other form in the scale of being. Not any be¬
lieving in spirits, nor even in God as an image person of every
power, sitting up somewhere aloft upon a throne of state, but
as the great spirit pervading the universe, with whom (in terms
of personality) we may all commune and find response, and
who is to be seen, and read, and felt in all things, animate or
inanimate ; for there is no dead nature, but all is living sub¬
stance—spiritual substance—all in all interacting in every
condition and form. To think otherwise is but to exhibit the
deadness that has taken hold of ourselves, and the evid ence
of a lack of intellectual spirituality in our own nature. But
whether what I have expressed be exactly religious or not, I
cannot say ; the multitude has other requirements I fear.
Boulogne-sur-Mer. H. G. Atkinson.
ALLEGED SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS.
Sir,—A statement is made on the first page of your paper
for October the 15th which seems to me of great value :—
“ A boy medium obtained some spirit hands, and a person
present squirted some ink over the hands. When the boy was
released from the cabinet his hands were covered with ink,
and the youth was denounced as an impostor there and then.
.... A gentleman was not satisfied. He tried experiments,
and found that colouring matter placed upon the spirit hands
afterwards appeared on different parts of the body of the
medium.”
My object in quoting this is to call attention to the nature
of the evidence required, in testing the genuineness of pro¬
fessed spiritual communications. This remarkable statement
ought to teach us not to accept even what appears to be the
strongest circumstantial evidence as proof, especially where
the character of individuals is involved.
I would apply this to the present painful controversy re¬
specting Mr. Hudson and Messrs. Herne and Williams. I am
not going to express any opinion as to the truth or falsehood
of the charges made against them. Nor do I know what
either yourself or Mr. B. W. Pycock might be able to state,
if disposed to do so.
But I do wish to say that it appears to me and to others
with whom I have conversed, that the evidence which has
been published is insufficient to justify the readers of it in re¬
turning a verdict of guilty. Also, bearing in mind the above
anecdote, and the photographic,possibilities which Mr, Hender¬
son some time ago made us acquainted with in the pages of
The Medium, I should protest against any inferences what¬
ever which are drawn from an examination of photographs,
or which rest upon circumstantial evidence however strong,
being accepted && proof oH imposition. We ought to be more
diffident in relation to subjects of which our actual knowledge
is so very small.
I would also venture to remind both yourself and your cor¬
respondents that it is entirely contrary to our English sense
of justice and fairplay, to expect answers from a supposed
culprit to questions in reference to his assumed criminality.—
Betchworth, Oct. 28th, 1872. Edward T. Bennett.
[The persons competent to come to a decision on this subject are practical
photographers, \l-ho have seen the handwork in the pictures in question.^
In the same j £ JtSsOS 'SSffifietSTrt' td t§HijSe" difference between
printing and bandwriting is a civilised man, who knows how to read and
write; a Nevy Zealander, who can do neither, might perhaps argue endlessly
with his friends that the two methods of impressing ideas on paper were
the same^ though Englishmen might consider them out of court in the dis¬
cussion •: xhe use of making known the present imposture is to let the few
mediums who play tricks, know that they will be first exposed in a Spiritual
Peri.Sdical, and not in a daily or general newspaper, to prove that Spiritualists
4° not knowingly shield imposture.—Ed.]
SPIRITUALISM IN NEWCASTLE.
' Sir,—Permit me to draw your attention to the fact that we
^ave made a move in establishing an association in this
'’ancient town and county for the purpose of Spiritual investi-
j gation. To this end we have taken the Freemason's Hall,
i Newgate-street, rented it for a term, furnished it, and, at the
i present time, we are inaugurating our association (which
already numbers a great many enquirers) with a course of the
most brilliant lectures it has ever been my privilege to hear,
from our learned friend Dr. H. M’Leod, a most fearless and
outspoken exponent of spiritual philosophy. In fact, these
lectures are worthy of being written in letters of gold, and we
earnestly call the attention of your readers to hear and judge
for themselves. He has already spoken on the following
btqpics :—1. “ Spiritualism, Historic and Phenomenal.” 2. “ The
Logit?, of Spiritualism.” 3. “ Scientific Spiritualism.” 4. “ De-
nominaitional Spiritualism.” To follow :—5. “ Experimental
and Noteworthy Spiritualism.” 6. “ The Spirit of Spiritualism.”
At the request of several gentlemen, the ‘ Logic of Spiritual¬
ism ” will be repeated after the course is finished. Dr.
M’Leod ill ustrates his lectures by diagrams, and we are sur¬
prised that such a course of lectures is not in daily request.
We, who h ave heard Mrs. Hardinge-Brittain, and others,
decidedly give the preference to Dr. M’Leod. The remaining
lectures will be given every Thursday night at the aforesaid
hall, at 7.3'0 p.m., when the chair will be taken by Mr.
Bayfield. The insertion of these few lines in your next
number wi ll oblige, Thos. Wood, C. S.,’
(For the Newcastle Association of Spiritualists.)
4, Leuzffis-court, Newcastle-on-Tyne, Oct. 30th, 1872.
Next .Sunday evening, Nov. 3, the Rev. Mr. Austin will
lecture fit the Swedenborgian Church, near Camberwell Nqvj-.
road B.ailway Station, London, on “Man as a Spiritual
Being.’ ’
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS. -
J. C.—/-Your pamphlet received. We will review it. soon.
L. X.-y-H we cannot publish your long but good letter soon, we will,
retiirn it to you, and ask you to make it shorter.
L. F. S., Burton-on-Trent—If the lady is not a medium and the
house is not haunted, the noises are probably not caused by
spiritual agency. Your questions are of too elementary a cha¬
racter for discussion in these pages; Mrs. De Morgan’s book 
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans)—will give you much of the
information you want about mediumship.
A few letters kept over for want of space.
If provincial Spiritualists find any delay or irregularity in the
supply of the Spiritualist, it is the fault of their newsvendor or
his London agent.
The complimentary copies of this jpnraal hitherto posted to the
leading Spiritualists of America will be stopped now that fort-
nightly publication doubles the losses over each issue. The said
ffpirituanats are invited to become subscribers, and [to get others
to subscribe.
88
THE SPIKITUALIST
Nov. 1, 1872.
FACTS FOE NOJST-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi-.
ence, mat it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally; and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible. '
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture of delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. C.- IY VArley,' Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. C. Hall, -ancLothers, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. .Home.
It also came out'in, the, eyidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been "the invited and un¬
paid guest of , the Emppror, and the ,Empress of the
Trench, the Emperor,impress, and the'late Em¬
press DowagerbHHuSsia, ;tHe 'Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, ! the .jKingmf 'PrusM., the late King of
Bavaria, the lata- King of. Wurteipburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has heyer-taken a farthing of pay for his
seanceb.
Mrs. De Morgan has written- a book; entitled
From Matter to 'Spirit (Longmans), where she-
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical. Society,
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should mate unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Mr C. F. Varley, C.E., F.E.S., the Atlantic,
Cable Electrician, has testified that Spiritual
phenomena are produced by disembodied spirits. „
Mr. John Bright, M.P., testified to Mr. J. M.
Peebles, late American Consul at Trebizond, that
he had seen some of the phenomena, and they
appeared to be produced by spirits, though he was
not sure on the point.
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,'
spoke verj' highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. ■ Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
m^de mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked hy spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in theTBrmslFMuseum'
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence.in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wOoden'materials by invisible a,gency ogcurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley..
Mr. W. Crookes;, F.R.S. (editor, of The Quarterly
Journal of Science), Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Mr.
William Huggins (Vice-president of the Royal
Society), have certified that certain of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism are real. A scientific
•committee of professional gentlemen, appointed by
the Dialectical Society, came to the same conclusion
after two years investigation ; their official report
is printed in No. 26 of The Spiritualist.
A work entitled The Booh of Nature, by 0. 0.
Groom Napier, F.O.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:— '
“There is hut one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this'work foreign to our materialistic, ’
manufacturing <age? ^-No : for amidst the varieties of
mind which diy.ers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in" the most
cloudless skies of scepticism T see a rain-cloud, if-it be no
bigger than a man’s,hand ; itis.Modern , Spiritualism.;’ : -
In addition to Ih© above evidence, there is the
testimony ■’ of numbers that •' the modern spiritual
manifestations are realiiies..r Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America‘estimates,the humber of Spiri¬
tualists in. the IJniteiJ' States at -rather less,, than
three millions, anid this isaboutthe lowest estimate
that anybody has made. ' There are no accufate'sta-
ristics, and different authorities .vary in their nsti-
.mS^2-s from three to eleven millions,
Jt/tere reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal,'non-^oiritualists should understand (hat spirits
out of the body are wise dr~foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the Same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not ,know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequent y their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
iournal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any,other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
HOW TO FORM 8VIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At tire same time, as no fully developed
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations,
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but ho accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive-sittings. The following is a good plan of-
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter It, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
,of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered-wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacn other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
acoommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes,-but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.,
„ 3. Before the'sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table; to write down any communications that may be
obtained..
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief ,or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is'a weakening influence.
I 5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
-: 7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to tlie letter you want, aud spell us .out a
message?” I Should three signals be given,.set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the;question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some membex-s of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance.
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially
meet the EXPENSES of the FORTNIGHTLY
PUBLICATION of “The Spiritualist’
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
“ A Friend at a Distance ”
aTl>,Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
W. T.ebb, Esq 
EnmorP Jones, Esq 
0. F. Variey- Esq., F.R.S. ...
Mrs. E. KbDpx 
“ TruthseekS?” (Liverpool)...
Friends at Bii^*on:—
Miss Ponder-.. 
Miss E. Ponder?;,*  
Mrs. Rudd ...  
“Longfellow” ..* •••
, Mr, Withall
Mr.E.'Bird... ••  •••
Mr; George Daxyson""
Mr, Dawson Bog!,rs 
Mr.Rogers... .... ••••••
Mr. Desxfaond Fitz,1?6™^"-
Mrs. Gunyon' ... j "•
s. d.
0 0
0 0
5 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
s. d.
0
0
0
0
0
“ A Friend.” Tempit -  
N. r . Daw, Esq.... ! - 
Richard Beamish, Es, j., FR.S  ... ...
A; Wason, Esq. ...■ ... ,.. ... ...   
The pountess of Caitbxnesg  
Mr. and Mrs. Edmistoi n   
“Bitterness”' .;  ... ... ... ... ...
Algernon Joy, Esq. pi ... . ... .1. ,...
“A Friend,"Manchester...  
Benjamin Coleman^ Esq. ...  
“ A Friend,” PV'lt.8    
Miss'KislihgJoury   ... ... ... ... ...
G. Nelson^Strawbridge, Esq...   ... ...
Mrs. MaJxdougall Gregory ... .;. ... ... ...
Miss j;/H Douglas •;     ...
“ AFxyiend”... ...    ...  • ...
G. D. "(Hackney), Balance) in- excess. of p.ublish-
ingS.account   ...   
Subscriptions in aid of this object may be remitted to
N.'F;abyan. Daw, Esq.; treasurer) 5) Portidari-chambers,
Porftman-squafe, W.; BenjaminColeman,1Esq.,Bera:,'rd-
vilkAs, Upper Norwood; oritO 'Enmore Jones, Esq., ic.-
moxf-erpark,' South Norwood, S.E.
S eptember 8th, 1872.' ;
0 8 6
• v ,, G. H.’ A N.D Tt'E W S,' .
’ TAILOR, W,
Ail, Lambs Conduit. Street, Foundling, W.C.
BE\GS to inform Gentlemen,, who may
-fhopour him Iwith, their pajronage, they,can be
supplied! with clothes cut in the most fashionable manner,
good materials, and sound1 workmanship, at very mode¬
rate char ’ges. .Fit. and style perfect, having been many
yeitrs in .the well-known'firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co.;
65,_St. Jatnes’s Street.. , , ' ) £ s’, d.
TrdHsers, from'... ‘... ... ... 013 6
Vestis   .;. ... ... 0 7 0
BlsyeJk Suit, from ... ... ... ... 3 0 0
UnriWalled Black Doe ...   1 10
Twee'dSuit   ... j...    2 10 0
And all oth er Garments at the same moderate charges.
MISS 1 LOTTIE FOWLER, MEDICAL
. AND -BUSINESS CLAlRVOYANTE AND
TEST-MEDIUM, fr(3m America, can be consulted daily
at 24, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.C. Hours from
10 till 8. Terms, 21s,
trice 2s. 6d.
Glimpses il a brighter land.—
Showing the harmony of things Spiritual with
things Material.
“The-tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”
—Christian Spiritualist.
*** A List of Spiritual and Mesmeric works on applica¬
tion.
medium is present among those who have never«London: Baiffiere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
British imperial insurance
, CORPORATION, LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
j Capital—-£200,000 in 200,000 Shares op £1 Each.
Head Offices:
BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET,
MANCHESTER. \
Chief London Offices:
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.O,
, Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Bavtord, LL}D., Senior Regis¬
trar, Court of Probate, Doctors’ Commons, London';
and Chancellor of the Diocese of Manchester.
William Gimber 'Goodliffe, -Accountant. General,
India Office, Westminster, London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director
of the Union "Bank of London; Austin Friars, Old
Broad-street, London, E.p. ’
Christopher WeGuelin (Thomson, Bonar & Cot)
Director of the Bank of England, 573,.Old Broad-
street, London, EX). -
Auditor:
Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c„ <6c„ London, and
• Southlands, Bromley,* Kent;"
The system of Insurance cairied'out by the “British
Imperial ” (originally devised by Dr. Farr) F.11.B.; &c.,
&c., of Somerset House, ana adopted with some modifi¬
cations-by her .Majesty’s .Government), is perfect in
Security, Equity, and Convenience. |||
I n. , Security, because every With Profit, and Self-
Insurance Policy, is issued upon English Government
Securities, held in Trust; away from the-control of the
Directors, for the sole ipurpoge of .’meeting policy claims,
the amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium)
being shown by . the National English Life Table, com¬
piled by "the RegisfraP-General for the Government to be
rqore than sufficient to provide :.the sum insured under
the policy.s 4 ,
In Equity, because in .the event of an Insurant failing
to continue the payment of his premiums, only sufficient
thereof is retained by the Corporation to profitably cover
the'risk incurred upon the life during the time it was
covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned
to the Insurant, The amount returned varies according
to'the Table'under which the Insurance is effected,
between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
IN Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is
endorsed on eyeiy,Policy,,and is made payable at three
days’ sight. It can also be used tb'its full amount, by.
payment of 5 per ;cent.‘per annum interest on the sum
withdrawn, without invalidating the Policy.
' ’JOHN A. 'FBIGAN,
General Manager.
r ?/ .,/ WILLIAM DAVIES,"
Secretary.
British national insurance
, CORPORATION, LIMITED.
' " Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Offices.
BROWN-STREET AND MARSDEN-STREET,
MANCHESTER.
FIRE;
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may
be effected with this Corporation upon every description
Of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has
been made upon the Corporation during the year pre¬
ceding, a Bonus of ten Per cent, will be returned on
the payment of Renewed premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing
Employers against loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of
persons holding confidential and other places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the
Policies of this Corporation as security for the Poor Law
Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM-STREET, LONDON, E.C..
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of
influence and standing to act for the Corporation in
unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and
BRITISH NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARAN¬
TEE) INSURANCE CORPORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either. of the above Cor¬
porations can be made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief
London Offices, 20, King William Street, E.O., from
whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forins, and all other infor¬
mation, can be obtained.
E
P P S
S’
GOG O A.
The Civil Service Gazette remarks—“By a thorough
knowledge of the natural laws which govern the opera¬
tions of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful applica¬
tion of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr.
Epps has provided our breakfast-tables with a delicately-
flavoured beverage which may save us many heavy
doctors’ bills.”
Made simply with (Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homceopathic-Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a tbin Evening Beverages.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF EN-
QUlRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Daist<>n, E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at - 8 o’clock; and a Library ’is in course of
formation, for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. ' Subscription 3s. per
quarter in advance. - Thos. Blyton,'Secretary, &c.
.A-
304 pp„ 8vo, cloth gilt, price 5s.,’ post free.
LYRIC OF. THE GOLDEN AGE.
Thomas L. Harris.
Glasgow: John ThomsoP, 39, John-street,
In the Press. A new Volume of Poems, price 2s. 6d...
AN INVALID'S CASKET. By J. H
. Powell, author of “ Life Incideiits and Poetic Pic
tures,” &c. “An Invalid’s Casket” is",the result of
nearly seven years’ poetic musings, the rfiajority of the
pieces'being composed in America. The Object of the
present issue is to secure (if possible) mearri. from its
sale, to support the family of the author.
Intending Subscribers will confer a favour by forff&rd-
ing’their Names, Addresses, and Subscriptions at olice
to J. H. Powell, 179, Copenhagen-street, Caledonian-roadi
London, N.
VTISS GODFREY, CURATIVE ME3-
JLtJL MERIST and RUBBER. Clairvoyant Exami-
IV"188
nation, and complete Diagnosis, One Guinea. Mes¬
merising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travel¬
ling expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161,
Hampstead-road, N.W,
QO
SELECTED BY HER MAJESTY’S COMMISSIONER
FOR THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
PHOTOGRAPHS.
Prices from 6s. per Dozen.
MR. A. L. HENDERSON,
OF
49, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON BRIDGE,
AND OF
2, AMERSHAM ROAD, NEW CROSS, S.E.
Photographer on Enamel to the Queen.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and
Prophetic Medium, RECEIVES VISITORS
daily (Sundays, excepted), from Twelve till Six o’Clock,
at her Residence, 17, Castle-street, Wells-street, Oxford-
street, Terms, Five Shillings each Visitor. Private
Parties also attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea
and travelling expenses.
EBIRD, Builder; House-deeorator,
O Plumber, and Gasfltter, desires to inform his
Friends and Employers , that he has . taken . NEW
PREMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane', Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station, Estimates given for every
despription of.work in the above.branches.
Aaron jranklin, preserver of
1,BIRDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF
NATURE, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads, fox’s heads,
shells, and corals; in groat variety, The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
A LADY desires Board and Residence in
a Private Family. Terms, £50 a year inclusive.
Or she would be willing to teach Music, Singing, French,
or English, in part payment. Address X. Y. Z. 1, Pem¬
broke Villas, Augustus Road, Hammersmith.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STA-
tioner, circulating'library, &c„ &e :
of 2, Napier place, Dalston’ Lane) London, E., respectfully
solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in the
vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—
Information as to Local (Association, Seances &c„ to be
obtained on application. The Spiritualist newspaper kept
oh sale)
B
EVERIDGE & ERASER, Printers of
The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descrip¬
tions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
TO INEBRIATES AND THEIR FRIENDS.
Just published, limp, Is. 6d.; cloth 2s.,
ON INEBRIETY, Continuous and Peri¬
odical, considered as the Result of Physical'
Disease, and distinct from the Vice of Intemperance :
its Causes, Nature, Treatment, and Cure, showing the
curability of the worst cases of Intemperance. By
Sylvanus Harris, M.D. (Pennsylvania).
HAMMOND and CO. 20, Catherine-street, Strand; or
post free from the Author, 14. Serle-street, Lincoln’s-
inh, W.O.
The rise and progress of
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently published in the Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet form, on toned paper, with ccfloured wrapper
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
may be had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and are of especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject
of Spiritualism.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
Heaven opened.—part ii. being
further descriptions of, and advanced teachings
from, the Spirit Land. Given through the mediumship
of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the Scripture
proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C. ; E. W. Allen, 11.
Ave-Maria lane, E.G., or F, J. T., 21, East Ascent,
St. Leonard's-on-Sea.
Also Part I., price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
THE SPIRITUALIST NEWSPAPER.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
Three shillings and sixpence for the first fifty
words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every
ten words in addition. When four or more insertions
of the same advertisement are ordered, half-S-ferown' for*
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words,''ifid) four-
pence for every ten words in addition, each insertion.
Ten initial letters or figures count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertise¬
ments, because it circulates largely among those adver¬
tisers desire to reach, and an advertisement is notriost to,,
view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the paper is not
usually tom up when read, but preserved for binding.
Corrkspondbnoe.—Correspondents who write letters
consisting of personal opinions, for publication, are
requested not to make them more than a third of a
column long. Letters containing, important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is -taken of orders received
for papers unaccompanied by a remittance. The next
twelve copies of The Spiritualist will be posted to any
address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
(Kontents.
The Influence of the Affections upon Spiritual Mani¬
festations  ... ... ...   81
A Trance Lecture ... ... ... '... ... ... 81
Canon Calloway on Psychological Phenomena, IV.—
Hilarion; Lm her and the Devil; Madame Guyon;
Painful .Mental Disturbances , Accompanying
Changes of Theological Ideas; An Incantation
' Scene; A Thumb-Doctor; Divination among the
Natives of Natal; Self-Mesmerism by. Natives of
Natal; Stick and Bone Diviners; Impepo Eaters;
Voice Circles in Natal; Conclusion  82—84
Spiritualism in Rome     ' 'i  84
Literary Notices:—Spiritisch-rationaRstische Zeit-
schrift; Lo Spiritismo Dimostrato e Difeso;
Memoria di Achille Tanfani   ... 85
Phreno-Mesmerism .). '     85
Private Seances. — Seance at Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory’s; Seances at Mr. Cook’s   ... 85
A Swedenborgian Minister on Spiritualism   86
Spiritualism in Islington.—Miss Keeves’ trance-
mediumship; the Sham Ghost-pictures again ... 86
Correspondence Spirituality, or the Religion of
Nature; Alleged Spirit Photographs; Spiritualism
in Newcastle     ...  87
Answers to Correspondents  87
printed for the Proprietor hy Bbvbridgr & Frasbr ,
at the Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwpod’s Rents,,
High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
pp and St. George the Martyr, London, and publishedl
by E- W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London E.C.)
