JlaaiSIKUBD is A. NiSWSPAPatt.]
. ^^YdSoiKOG^id®^ ^dis<Kd5i.
Ojc #lb.est ^ixisppr, rrmitKi^ toillj SpintwaHsm m (faxivi §rHam.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regulariy on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont, BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON :
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 249.—(Yol. X.—No. 22.)
LONDON: FRIDAY, JUNE 1, 1877.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Religious Aspects of Spiritualism ... ...'  
“ I Will Arise’’... <      
Spirit Identity. By Thomas Blyton, Honorary Secretary
to the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism     
The Opening of Museums on Sundays 
A Visit to Ara-Coeli, Rome. By Catherine Woodforde ...
Dr. Slade’s Offer to Professor Lankester 
Spirit Identity;:—Seances with Mr. J. W. Fletcher   
The National Association of Spiritualists:—The Last
Soiree of the Season—The Annual General Meeting
The Annual Report of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists    
Correspondence:— Authority in Religion—Archbishop
Hughes as a Spirit—The Human Double—Form Mani¬
festations — Vegetarianism — S wedenborgianism v.
“ Spiritualism—Trance Lectures in Oldham ... ... ...
Spirit Music above the Beds of the Dying  
Poetry:—“Not Dead, but Risen”    ...
Answers to Correspondents    
Paragraphs:—Mendicity, 265; Conscience, 255; Spirit¬
ualism in Marylebone, 258; The Slade Testimonial,
258 ; Illness of Mr. William Tobb, 258 ; Mrs. Weldon’s
Orphanage, 259; A Sermon on Harriet Martineau,
259 ; Spiritualism in Rome, 263; The Promulgation
of New Truths, 263 ; The Formation of a Spiritualist
Society in Derby, 263 ; Religious Mania 
253
253
255
255
254
258
258
259
261
264
264
264
.. 264
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IK 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-V oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to' their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness is.His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr; H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. 0. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.: Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vav (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law: Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman: Mr. Charles Blackburn:
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the*‘Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. 0.
Hall. F.8.A: Mrs. S. 0. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.R.G.S, ;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I.. Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
T/ie Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places: —
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont,
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Cb. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco :• 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
'April, 1877.
Brighton, — apartments, pleasant
rooms, maybe had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &o. Address, “Spiritualist," 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE HEADING BOOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
_ Free seances for inquirers hive been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Oommunications should he addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great RusseU-street
Post-office.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-koad-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.
SOCIABLE EYENINGS.
Every Monday Evening throughout the year, at 8 p.m., at the
Langham Hall, Great Portlaud-Street, for the benefit of Mrs.
Weldon’s Orphanage. The first Concert took place on Monday
evening, November 6, 1876.
Stalls (a limited number), 5s. each; centre seats, area (a
limited number), 2s. 6d. each. Admission, Is. Transferable
tickets, for a series of three months: stalls, £2 2s.; centre
seats, area, £1 Is.; unreserved seats, 10s. 6d. Mrs. Weldon
earnestly solicits subscriptions, donations, or old clothes
towards the increase of her Orphanage, which she started
eight years ago, and which has, till now, been supported
entirely by herself. Mrs. Weldon has been obliged, for want
of a larger income, to refuse as many as five forsaken children
in one week. Tickets may he obtained, and subscriptions,
donations. &c., received by John Blagrove, Secretary, Music
and Art Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, W.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA.
The new and slightly abridged edition of
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
Sg the late Wm. Gregory, F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry
at Edinburgh University,
Will be out in a few days, price 5s., or 6s. 6d. post free; or
five copies post free for 21s. Subscribers will be supplied with
early copies, in the rotation in which their orders and remit¬
tances are sent. Copies may also be had houndjin |balf calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Taleslof the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-and-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modern Education; or. the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trtjbner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A hook for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
WANTED, a respectable person (Spirit¬
ualist) as working HOUSEKEEPER. A good home
for one who will treat a little girl with kindness. Address,
stating age, and salary required, J. Chadwiclj 80, Beaver-’
street, Oldham, Lancashire,
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
established 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
President.
HENRY D. JENOKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association, for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Nayarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special stances with professional media, lectures, discus,
sions, reading ofpapers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have’the privilege of attending, the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the ’
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines aro
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
ormation of circles and conduct oi seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s, All subscriptions payable in advance
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open- seance
on Thursdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d,; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
/CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any hooks and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,- •
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire
BIRKBECK BANK. — Established 1851. —
29 & 30, Southampton-huildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.,
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Publishing Office: 13, Red Lion-court, Fleet-street,
London, E.C.
THE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional literature, drama,
music, sports, &c. Chas. L. Wellsden, Editor and Proprietor,.
1, Oastledine-road, Anerley, S.E.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the,
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex-,
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a-
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer-,
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the '
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. .London .Spirit-;
yglist Officq.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
June 1, 1877,
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Colder,Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Park field, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.,ls>, Cambridge-street, Hyde-parlc, \\ .
Oregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, w.
Honywood, Mrs., S2, Warwick-square, S.VV.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-bmld-
ings, E.C.
(Speer,’stanhope Templeman, M.D.,Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
tVason. .Tames, TVason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
AVyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberlancl-plaoe, Hyde-pavk, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfleld, W. N„ Eden-villa, Calrns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Centra.' Exchange, Newcastle-6n-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Kichmond Hill.
Blnney, P- A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Tlios., 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7. Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald,Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendlnning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kenningtou-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Allred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W. •
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C,
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa. Church-end, Finchley, N.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W. \
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, AY.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Poste Restante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
With all, H.; T, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.AY.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Ileathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. E. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-C61. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Yienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. Mi Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. AVallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.VV.
Signor Damiani, Salita Ponteeorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 78, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Strata, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna,
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue dp Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. See.—11. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2®, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senbr Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1877.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
• Vice-President.—John Priest, Esq.
Secretary.—Hv, Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Auditors.—Mr. Charlton and Mr. Chatham.
Trustees.—Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
James Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos¬
worthy, Mrs. Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Mr. Casson, Mr.
Davies, Mr. Foden, Mr. Fowler. Mr. Jones, Mr. A. Lament,
Mr. J. Lament, Mr. Norris, Mr. Richard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresp mding- Meiribers.
Ills Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenherg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn AVittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, A’evey,
Switzerland. ‘
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdj6Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Besth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstuhbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksanof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Yeh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Areh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylnc, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lmdesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russcll-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany."
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-strect, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
II. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.R.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J^H. Gledstanas; Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Ohinnery, Esq . 2, Rue de Rocroi. Paris.
Rev. Samuel AVatson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI¬
CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best hooks published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
Eubject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
worldl Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Maes. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
TD* EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JLfej logiquos, fonde par Allan Hardee, appears on the 1st-
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paxia. Post-Office orders payable
to M, Leymarie,
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctually. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, hut Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.  
KEMOVAL.—MR. GEORGE EVERITT has
removed to No. 14, Bernard-street, Russell-square, W.C.
Mr. E. will leave London for the Continent about the 1st of
July. 
MR. J. W. FLETCHER, Clairvoyant and
Trance Medium, No. 14, Southampton-row. Seances
attended at residence if desired. At home 11 to 5.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (thirty years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at
his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
w
J. COLVILLE, Inspirational
• will deliver Orations and Poems to
Speaker,
publio or
private audiences in any part of the United Kingdom. For all
particulars address to him at Eagle House, 14, Sill wood-road,
Brighton. 
TL. HENLY, Mesmerist, 5, St. James’s-
• terrace, Notting-hill. “ Your treatment of insanity is
excellent.”—George Wyld, M.D., 12, Great Oumberland-plaee,
Hy de-park, to whom reference is permitted.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, hy the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manases—Mbs. A. O. Burke
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientijicdlly accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, hut also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a prion objections to Mr. Harrison's opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical."—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited."—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un •
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—A Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H, Harrison, 88, Great Russell Street, London, w.o.
THE EELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF SPIRITUALISM.
The time has arrived when it might perhaps be as well to
give more attention at public meetings in London to the reli¬
gious aspects of Spiritualism. Much has been done within
the past two or three years, in the way of more thoroughly
testing and examining the physical phenomena, and in
establishing permanent means for organised and efficient
public action, whenever such action is deemed to be neces¬
sary. The period has not been without its troubles, all due
to the sayings and doings of physical mediums, but not
always from any fault of their own. Dr. Slade, for instance,
could not help the attack made upon him, as it was merely
the outcome of the ignorance of a scientific man, who made
a superficial and most inefficient examination of the facts.
There have been annoyances brought on by Yon Vleck, Ely,
and others, who, surrounded by spirits of a low class and
low morals, have been able to show genuine mediumship as
jugglery; there have also been troubles from the extra¬
ordinary jealousy with which the majority of physical
mediums regard their rivals, and this is strikingly exempli¬
fied in Mr. Home’s disreputable book, which has just brought
down upon the movement—as well as upon himself, who
deserves it—a large amount of abuse in the Saturday Review,
Athenceum, and Times. A case occurred recently in the
provinces, in which a man of world-wide reputation had
taken steps to begin the investigation of Spiritualism, but
was deterred by the circumstantial slanders fabricated by one
physical medium about another; to such slanders Spiritualists
of any experience pay no attention. Mr. Jencken, with his
large experience, has told of the u objectless lies ” some¬
times given through physical mediumship, and out of the
enormous number of seances we have attended to gain know¬
ledge through practical experience by direct observation,
scarcely a single message given by means of the very won¬
derful physical phenomena, has been worth printing on its
religious, moral, or intellectual merits. The truth is, that the
lower the spirits the greater is their direct power over
common matter, and it seems to require the simultaneous
presence of a variety of delicately balanced conditions,
to permit one of the higher spirits to manifest through
the physical phenomena. Yet from the study of these
phenomena, resulting in some knowledge of the laws and con¬
ditions under which they are presented, information of the
most valuable kind has been obtained, throwing light upon
many religious problems, and the psychical events of past
ages. The phenomena are pre-eminently useful, more especially
as evidence that mental impressions and subjective imaginings
are not at the root of the whole of the matter, but they must
be relegated to their proper position in the minds of searchers
after truth.
Seeing then, that in the physical phenomena good and
evil are closely intertwined, and that this class of facts has
of late received a very large share of the attention of
Spiritualists, would it not be well in the few weeks that re¬
main before the season closes, to give more attention to
trance mediumship, and to the religious aspects of the ques¬
tion as presented by our best thinkers and normal speakers ?
Everybody is inclined for a rest, and for a change, so a few
good Sunday services, or the consideration of the religious
aspects of Spiritualism at the remainder of the fortnightly
meetings would be acceptable, and would tend to present
Spiritualism to the outside public in a new light.
At the stance of the Brixton Psychological Society, on Friday last,
with Mr. Williams, one of the spirits gave good tests of his power of seeing
in the dark; among others he'rallied the secretary upon being in a
“ brown study,’’and selected by request one in particular from among
six photographs, which a gentleman had placed upon the table.
“I WILL ARISE.”
The following is an extract from a sermon recently preached
by the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A., on the parable of the
Prodigal Son;—
Grasp the distinction between divine principle undefined?
and human morality defined, and you will see many mys¬
teries of right and wrong grow clear. You will see why the
laws of one nation are not the laws of another; why one
statement of morals seems in conflict with others ; why the
conscience is trained in one way in one age and country, and
another way in another age and country. All these moral
codes are in fact attempts—sometimes little more partial
laws, such as the laws of Moses; of Draco; of Solon ; old
Greek and Roman law—modern laws of Europe—of Eng¬
land—on many questions the better moral statements may
still have to be reached, nay, certainly will be reached. We
have only to look at the past and see that this is so. It was
once thought immoral in Rome for women to touch wine,
and the punishment was death. In Sparta it was thought
wrong to be found out, but not wrong to steal. Within the
memory of man an immense change of opinion has taken
place about the legal rights of women and the political rights
of man, and concerning freedom of opinion in religion, but
these changes have all been wrought under the immediate
pressure of what seemed a right or divine principle, i.e., a
course of action or conduct of morals, more in accordance
with the progress, health, and happiness of mankind. And
depend upon it the morals of property and the morals of
political power, and the morals of private wealth, and the
morals of family life, and the sexes are by no means in their
final form. Things are now permitted as moral or indifferent
which by and by will be denounced as crimes—yes, practices
selfish, thoughtless, unhealthy, and dissolute, entailing life¬
long misery on children unborn, and danger to the health
and happiness of the community are permitted, whilst things
calculated under proper control to further wholesome ends
are at present, condemned, which will by and by have to be
regulated and reduced to moral statement, just as the use of
gunpowder, poison, fire—I would I could add stimulant—
have been reduced from incontinent devastators to safe and
beneficent use and expression.
The Prodigal Son was thoroughly persuaded in his own
mind that his mission in life was not to feed swine; that he
ought not to waste his substance in riotous living, or spend
his money with harlots; he knew very well that was not the
right thing to do—there was not even common providence or
economy along with it, for u when he had spent all there
arose a mighty famine in the land, and he began to be in
want.”
Thus, men and brethren, I look about me in this great
city, and standing here in this great congregation, I ask
myself where are the examples, where are the emotions, the
feelings that I can bring to bear upon those who are at this
moment pricked in their hearts ?
You are the prodigals, you have got the sense of sin and
wrong-doing weighing on you, and you must first pour out
your souls in prayer to God; the filial cry must go up at this
moment with the sense of broken and violated allegiance;
there must be something of the child’s plaintiveness,
u Father, I have sinned.” Something of a rebel’s submis¬
sion, “against Thee only have I sinned, and done this
great evil in Thy sight.” “Against Thee!” mark the exact
words, two and no more; standing as a man, and lonely
man might stand on the pinnacle of some high mountain,
and feeling only two things real in the whole universe—the
soul and God—and the two face to face, “ against Thee;
|| only have I sinned.” So now stand, stand every one of
|| you in this sublime spiritual isolation and make this con-.
Volujvie Teh. Dumber Twenty-two.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 1st, 1877.
254
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 1, 1877.
fession to God, “ against Thee only have I sinnedI have
been a discordant note in the harmony of the world; I have
been doing what I can to add confusion and misery to life; I.
have known what good was and turned upon my way and
done evil. And Thou, 0 God, didst not leave my soiil in hell;
Thou didst make me divinely unhappyj Thou didst call me in
the wilderness where I was feeding swine, and as the mid-day
sun beat hotly down upon my head, I lifted up my eyes and
saw the foulness of the grovelling swine around me. They
were happy and content enough, but I could be happy no
more; I felt nothing but sublime discontent, for a fire was
in my heart, and my memory began to glow with strange
and sweet thoughts of my father’s home and all the hired
servants who in their lowly offices did fulfil happily his
pleasure, and then I felt what I had not known for months,
that I was an outcast, “ I will arise and go to my Father.”
So then that is what I want you to say in this assembly,
each one of you to-day. Here in this very congregation are
men forgetful of principles of right dealing one with another,
forgetful of purity, shut up in their own selfishness, in their
own prayerlessness, and alone with their own lawlessness, I
say, 0 God, teach them to apply the divine principles which
rule the world, and by which men’s hearts are to be won,
and by which their individual happiness and the happiness of
the world is to be built up ; teach them to apply these prin-
piples to their own practices, and let them see that God is
not mocked. Let them understand that in their commercial
avocations when they are doing that which is ruining the
character of England for truth and honesty, that they are
” sinning against heaven and before Thee.” Let them feel
that when they are undertaking a contract dishonestly and
carrying it out dishonestly that they are not clean in Thy
sight, that the money they hoard up is worse than waste, for
it will become inward rottenness in the spiritual bones, that
it will enter like iron into their heart’s core and wither their j
soul. Let them feel this—and the man of commerce—the
young man, when he is tempted to make money by con¬
nivance, when he is engaged as inspector to see that some one
else has fulfilled his contract, and when he takes a bribe, or
is cozened out of his opinion by another man, or garbles his
statement, and refuses to inform his employer of the truth,
although he is paid to inform him—let him feel at that
moment he has sinned against heaven and before Thee. And
that crowd of speculators, mixed up with the unsuspecting,
who go to the public with rotten concerns, who take in the
latherless and the widow, and fatten on the honest savings
of the poor but industrious community, let them not lie down
and sleep with the ill-gotten gain, but evermore plague them,
plague them with bad dreams. Let them see the rotten ship
go down which they have sent to sea. Let them hear the
voice of Rachel crying for her children, who will not be com¬
forted. Let them see the visions of misery, the poor innocent
babes unclothed and unfed, and honest women brought to
low depths of shame, and strong hearts broken, and many
who have been brought up in ease and luxury driven from
their own doors, deceived and ruined in these vile specula¬
tions, on which they, the malefactors, are fattening, like bad
and noisome pest-flies on a rotten carcase ! And let such an
one spring from his bed as a murderer springs' in the wilder¬
ness of his dreams from his solitary couch, and know the
terror and blackness of his crime, and let him, broken at
last with deep self-abhorrence and contrition, cry out,
“ Father, Father, great is my sin !—what shall I do to
be saved ? Am I indeed Thy son ? I have not chosen
Thee, but Thou has claimed me, and, therefore, I can never
be anything but Thine—Thy reckless, Thy rebellious son— |!
yet a cloud has been before my eyes, I have tampered with jj
the happiness of Thy creatures, and with my own responsi- ||
bilities, with all that a man should hold most honourable j{
and dear, and in the stillness of this awful night, in the |
depths of my soul, Thou hast tried me and searched me out, ij
and convinced me of judgment, and of righteousness, and of I
sin—Father, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in j
Thy sight, and I am not worthy to be called Thy son !” j
If I pass briefly over some other sins, the sins of heartless j
impurity, in which the young and frail have been enticed j
from the straight path, and then left to ruin and misery—if j
I pass them over for the present, it is because the time j
would fail me, and not that I have no desire to stir men out
|| of the depths of selfishness and lust. Oh that I could rouse
and unsettle them as with the voice of a trumpet, until
they became smitten with a restless monomania, a mania to
be rid of their sin, so that the young man who may have
| deluded with fair promises, or inveigled some one into his
| power, and incurred responsibilities which he had no inten-
| tion of meeting—so that he might never more rest until he
had made all possible reparation to his victim. I would
| send some Prophet of God to him in the disguise of friend,
or parable, or preacher. I would lay bare his life before
him, whilst seeming to speak of another. I would show him
| all the shadows and depths of his infamy, until he should
| contain his generous wrath no longer, but on himself pro¬
nounce judgment, and then suddenly hear a voice in his ear,
| “ Thou art the man I ” and then I would bid him arise and
go to his Father, and let him lead thither all those who by his
example have wandered far from the Father’s home. Let his
selfishness float away like a black cloud, and as he has
thought only of himself in his sins, let him think of others
in his repentance, and say, “ I would not be saved alone ; here
| are those whom I have caused to offend; I have enticed them
on to evil, now help them on to Thee, 0 Father, so that
| such as were dead may be alive again, and such as were
| sometime lost be for evermore found.”
But I may bid you arise, not only from sin, but from
sorrow, and come to your Father : there come seasons in the
lives of every one of us when we perceive how vain is the
help of man. We may have made proof of each friend in
some season of pain or loss in bitter bereavement; we have
weighed the value of words and have found them utterly
insufficient to bring any comfort. At such a time as that,
sitting down in our loneliness and sorrow, has not the silence
been broken by the voice of God calling to you in the still¬
ness and shadow of loss, and a new impulse and hope may
have seized you, and awakened you out of torpor and misery,
| saying, “I will arise and go to my Father!” And in a
I season of pain—of bodily pain, when our physicians can do
us no good, wonderful are the efforts of the Spirit, even upon
I the body, so that a man in his agony may have turned his
| face to the wall and prayed that some bitter thorn in the
flesh should be taken away, and even while he prayed he
has felt, as it were, the spirit-like breathings of comfort
stream over his heated brow; and as he now lifts up his eyes
his friends are surprised to see the smile that lights up his
wan face, and you perceive that the hidden mystery and root
of the matter is in him. It is impossible for anyone who
has had much experience of sick rooms and hospitals not to
have been struck by the strange and unforeseen times of
refreshing that come to the weak and agonised, who wait
upon the Lord in order that He may renew their strength.
| The clergyman approaches one suffering from cancer, or
j any other horrible disease, and feels so weak in faith and
| powerless, and so ashamed to deliver his spiritual message
| as a balm for physical pain—his lips falter over the old word,
| the well-worn text, how shall we comfort the afflicted ? Lo!
j he is comforted already. He does not want you ; God has
j been with him; go hence, thou faithless preacher of Christ,
j Behold the strength that is made perfect in weakness, take
| away thy faithlessness and thyself, thy brother whom thou
I earnest here to comfort needs not thee ; in the house of his
| need another voice has found him out, and even now he
jj makes answer, u I will arise and go to my Father.”
11 But the day and hour are coming for each one of us of
j j which no man knoweth, yet which many of us can even now
j clearly foresee, for there are doubtless some here who have
j the seed of their mortal disease within them at this moment.
I Miserable are you indeed, if at such seasons in this life only
| you have hope ; you have got sleepless, your senses are less
| acute, your memory has begun to fade; you do not go to
j business with the old zest and readiness, you see the clerks
j notice your failing powers, and that makes you angry; your
j children are married, and perhaps they do not seem to care
j for you as much as they did once. Your eyes are failing,
j and when people talk you lose much of their conversation ;
j but the world goes on, it can’t stop for you; this makes you
j sad at times—your old friends, and some who were lately the
j delight of your failing years, have been snatched from your
j side in the strength and bloom of youth,—and at last so
many have gone, and so few that love you still remain,
June 1, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
255
u that, the dead alone seem living, and the living alone seem
dead.” And thenjou begin to think whether it is not time for
you to be going too, going to join the throng of the departed,
and one day perchance, whilst these thoughts are pressing
upon you, the first summons comes, and you are taken to
the rest from which you will never rise again.
The world, and life, and time, and allf things around you
are indeed but shadows now, but as the eye of sense grows
dull and the ear fails, and the worn out mantle of the
spirit is ready to drop—you, my brother, shall be compassed
about with songs of deliverance, for now the voices of the
Homeland begin to mingle with your unearthly dreams, and
like the prisoner who with a supreme effort struggles to
burst his chains, you break free at last, with the glorious
words upon your lips, “ I will arise and go to my Father.”
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
BY THOMAS BLYTON, HONORARY SECRETARY TO THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION OP
INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
The evidences of spirit identity through the mediumship of
Mr. J. Wm. Fletcher are of so marked a nature as to induce
me to give my individual experience at the second subscrip¬
tion stance, held with him at the Rooms of the Dalston
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, on Wed¬
nesday evening, the 23rd instant. It appears to be a public
duty to record any personal experiences tending to solve the
problem of spirit identity; to me it is also a pleasure.
Those present at the seance were Mr. J. Wm. Fletcher
(trance medium), Signor Enrico Rondi, Mrs. Greorge Noakes,
Miss Corner, Mr. Gr. R. Tapp, Mr. John Dawbarn, Captain
James, Mrs. Ely ton, Mr. J. T. Dales, Miss A. Brittan, and
myself. The medium, in the trance state, answered a
number of questions bearing upon “ Form Manifestations,”
so-called. Afterwards, under the control of “ Winona,”
each of the sitters was addressed, and the evidences of
spirit identity were, as on former occasions, of a remarkable
character.
The medium at last appeared to be released from the control
of ff Winona,” who said that a spirit known to me would
speak for himself. Mr. Fletcher’s body was then convulsed
in a painful manner; he exhibited symptoms of choking
and vomiting ; placed one of his hands across his chest,
and held out the other hand towards me in a beseeching
manner. On taking hold of the medium’s hand, and sitting
beside him, the words came—“ It is I! Charley ! I have
been trying to speak to you here before, but have been
unable to do so until now. Tell them at home I am often
near them, and will try to impress them as to the best
course to follow; they must keep together at present, as
otherwise it will not be for their benefit. Tell Pollie it is well
with me, although it was hard to pass over.” More was said to
me in an earnest and impressive manner,' the control stating
that it was a while playing cricket he sustained the injury
from which he at length was freed, by passing away from
earth-life.” The nature of the communication thus made
was amply sufficient to point towards the identity of my
wife’s brother, Charles Bear, who departed from earth-life
in April last from the effects of a ruptured blood-vessel; the
injury was inflicted while he was playing at cricket. The
symptoms exhibited by the medium, when first passing under
the influence of this spirit, were similar to those from which
my brother-in-law eventually succumbed. I was also correctly
informed of sundry particulars as to his surroundings during
his last illness. The statements, of a private family nature,
were true in every respect.
“ Winona ” again controlled the medium, and, in the
course of the seance, turned to my mother and myself, and
then remarked that a spirit who gave the name of “ George ”
was present; that he was my father; he pointed to a portrait,
hanging on the wall of the room facing the medium, as that
of the spirit, who said that he had not often communicated
with my mother or myself since he left earth-life.
I can only add that the statements thus made were lite¬
rally true.
72, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E., 24th May, 1877.
The Nottingham Journal is crying out against the habit of reputed
men of science refusing to investigate phenomena of nature, in the
shape of spiritual manifestations.
THE OPENING OP MUSEUMS ON SUNDAYS.
The Rev. H. R. Haweis, incumbent of St. James’s, Marylebone, in
the course of a recent sermon, said :—
“ I say the time has come for a great change in public feeling about
the opening of museums and libraries, and picture galleries for the
people on Sundays. These are the great safety valves for the people.
It is a shame and a scandal that St. James’s Hall, the Albert Hall, and
other places, are not ever open, or allowed to be open even for oratorios
on Sunday—some not even on Good Friday—and that we seal up our
concert rooms when people are longing to come out of their public
houses, and to have something elevating and recreating to listen to on
Sunday afternoons. And now what prevents it ? Are there any Acts
of Parliament, for instance, against opening of museums and libraries
on Sunday 1 There are none. The institutions in a provincial town
may be opened with the consent of the municipal authorities; the
Government institutions may be open by the permission of the Govern¬
ment by a vote in Parliament. We only want public opinion to move
in this question. The charter of the British Museum especially pro¬
vides that it shall be open to the curious and studious at such times as
shall suit the public convenience, and the legislation upon this question,
or the attempts at it, are very curious to trace. Before the year 1854
Mr. Joseph Hume brought forward a motion in Parliament to get the
museums and libraries open on Sundays, and he got only 48 votes. In
1856 Sir Joseph Walmisley brought forward the same motion, and he
got only 48 votes. Mr. Peter Taylor, three years ago, brought the
question before Parliament, and he got 80 votes. Meanwhile petitions
had been got up, and 625,000 names came before Parliament to petition
that these places should not be open on Sundays, but when these names
were examined they shrank from 625,000 to 150,000, and it was dis¬
covered that these consisted chiefly of Sunday-school children, and in
many cases they had not signed themselves, but the teachers had
signed en masse for them. That was the kind of tactics by which the
Sabbatarian faction recommended its principles to Parliament. How
is it then, that when the common sense of this country is on the side of
opening museums and public institutions, we only get 80 votes for Mr.
Taylor’s motion ? An American visitor was seated in the House of
Cotomons to hear Mr. Peter Taylor’s last speech, and he was cheered
to the echo, and our American friend thought what a liberal nation
this is. When the M.P. got up to move the amendment negativing
Mr. Taylor’s views, nobody would hear him, and our friend thought the
victory was won. But no ! the members cheered Mr. Taylor’s speech,
but they went into the lobby and voted against him because they were
afraid of public opinion. They were afraid to be true to their opinions
because of the Ephesian mob outside, and that is why I am constantly
saying to you, friends, if you want to get things passed in Parliament:
things to elevate the people, things to recreate them, things to do them
good in mind and body and spirit, you must make your opinions known,
and you must support public measures by the amount of public
sympathy you can express, or else Parliament will not move. The
enlightened people will go into Parliament, and they will say we believe
this, that, and the other, but the times are not ripe ; the people do
not care about it; the press will not take it up, and Parliament will
not take it up ; and so people will applaud to the echo an honourable
sentiment, and then go into the lobby and vote against it.”
A correspondent in the Isle of "Wight has sent us the details of an
unusually absurd attempt on the part of idle spirits to hoax him. They
told him to dress himself, head and all, in peculiar garments of cor¬
duroy, and to attach a heavy cannon-ball to one of his legs, to facilitate
the development of his mediumship. Queer people who depart this life
retain their eccentricities in the life beyond, and are not suddenly and
miraculously changed into somebody else.
Mendicity.—Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A., is about to issue a work entitled
“ Words of Warning, in verse and prose,” addressed to societies for
organising charitable relief and suppressing mendicity. He says:—
“ That there is a vast deal of deception ; that there is a large number
of professional beggars, who spend in evil ways the money acquired by
evil ways, who can doubt ? There are few whose aim is to lesson misery
who are not often ‘ taken in.’ [Among other proofs, I have five letters,
signed in five different names, from a person who assumed to have been
a reporter, a sub-editor, an author; I had sent him money live times
before I detected fraud.] But, thank God! there are many who would
not, for a thousand times the sums of which they have been defrauded,
burden their consciences with the knowledge that timely aid would have
preserved a life—perhaps, saved a soul. I question the ‘ quality of
mercy ’ in a woman, or man, who could boast that she, or he, had
never been ‘ taken in.’ A common labourer said to me, ‘ I don’t
believe in a man’s Christianity if his dog is none the better for it.’ ”
Conscience.—Remember for every act committed there is a penalty,
and for every tear wrung from the widow and orphan through dishonesty
and deceit, there is a time coming when you who have been guilty will call
upon the. rocks and mountains to hide you from the fires of awakened
conscience and a never failing memory. Give a few moments to reflec¬
tion upon this matter, and see if you can afford to barter away your
peace of mind in a never-ending future, for the vain ambition and
transitory honours of the present. Your country is suffering to-day,
and its perpetuity threatened by these unholy and corrupting influences
—the cries of the unfortunate and poor are ascending heavenward
asking for relief—and can spirits who see and know the cause refrain
from giving expression to thoughts and feelings which .should fill the
breast and actuate every intelligent person now living in the land, con¬
secrated to freedom by the blood of true patriots ?—Spirit Message
(Religio-Philosophical Journal).
256
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 1, 1877.
A VISIT TO ARA-CGELI, ROME.
BT CATHERINE WOODFORDE.
Guide-books diligently acquaint us with all the historical
facts connected with this famous old church, and point out
the various objects of interest or celebrity contained within
its walls; but I merely wish to record the impressions
received as a medium whilst visiting a spot which teemed
with spiritual influences of a mixed, perplexing, sometimes
painful character. The most painful part, perhaps, was,
that, as strangers were going round at the same time with
the monk who conducted us, I was compelled to restrain
or withstand the effect of the crowding, clustering spirits,
lest by some external expression I should attract attention, |)
which might have been, under the circumstances surround- I)
ing me, an awkward thing to happen right under the nose R
of his Holiness, or within the cognisance of the party of [|
the u Blacks,” as they are called. These Blacks remain loyal n
to the Pope, opposed to the Government, and keep a very R
strict watch over the doings of the faithful, whipping them ij
up (especially the converts) to a due observance of all those j)
externals, a slavish adherence to which only belittles the R
soul, and renders it incapable of progress. It is the old
mistake of cherishing the shell when the spirit has escaped, ji
But, as a friend truly said to me once—u That is not the R
Church; it is the priests. There is nothing in the Church, truly j
understood, which is not beautiful, spiritual, and worthy of h
the love of the whole world; mais ce sont ces fripons la, j
fanatics, and adorers of the Pope, and of human power and !j
greatness, who veil her beauty, and lower her; and these j j
men finish by forgetting utterly the spirit oi our Mother, j j
the Church, and, consequently, the spirit of Jesus Christ.” j j
The Church of Ara-Coeli is built on the summit of the j j
Capitoline Hill, and occupies the site of a Pagan temple— R
the Temple of Jupiter Feretrius—erected by Romulus in the j)j
early dawn of Roman greatness. It occupies the very centre j j
of the scene of some of the most wonderful occurrences in R j
Roman history. The steps leading up to the church are on j j
the “site of the famous staircase which Julius Ceesar de- m
scended on his knees, after celebrating his first great I j
Gallic triumph in the temple of Jupiter Capitolinus. Here |)|
Valerius, the consul, was killed in the conflict with Her- j j
donius for the possession of the Capitol. Down the ancient j j
steps on this site, Annius, the envoy of the Latins, fell and j j
was nearly killed, after his audacious proposition in the ||[
Temple of Jupiter, that the Latins and Romans should R
become one nation, and have a common senate, and consuls. ]) !
Here Tiberius Gracchus was killed; and at the base of the | |
grand staircase, now called La Cordonnata, Rienzi, the last Rj
of the Tribunes, fell covered with wounds, his wife wit- j
nessing his death from the window of the burning palace I
above.” (A. 0. Hare.) !
Here Pagan and Christian reminiscences mingle them- j
selves inextricably, and the very stones throw back to the |
eyes of a seer, and the senses of a medium, the varied im- . j i
pressions of the past human lives which here seethed in
tumultuously,, like an onflowing, ever restless torrent, making 11 j
its way out to the broad ocean of eternity. I turned from | !
contemplating the magnificent equestrian bronze statue of | !
Marcus Aurelius, on the spot where Brutus harangued the RJ
people after the murder of Julius Caesar-—turned from j j
ancient Rome, where I would fain have lingered to dream, j j
A turn and a few steps plunged me into the midst of modern I j
Christian Rome; and I ascended the stairs leading to Ara- j j
Cceli, with all these impressions and recollections of the j j
stirring events in the history of this magnificent people j |
thrilling my mind. I passed soldiers belonging to the army j j
of Victor Emmanuel, well hated by the Papalini, and lifting j j
a heavy leathern curtain found myself in the darkened, dingy I !
light of the richly decorated old church. j j
The name of this famous church is generally attributed j j
to an altar erected by Augustus to commemorate the Delphic j !
oracle respecting the coming of Jesus, which is still recog- j j
nised in the ancient Catholic hymn of the 11 Dies irce” ! !
where occurs this line—
“ Teste David, cum SybillaT
This altar bore the inscription, ilAra Primogeniti Dei” j{|
and is said to have been erected on the site of the chapel in j j
the middle of the east transept, now dedicated to St. Helena, '■ !
j who is believed to have had the honour of transporting from
)j Jerusalem all that remained of the True Cross, and the Crown
| of Thorns. After this fashion has Christianity stepped into
}| the footprints of Paganism, and possessed itself of shrines,
>i temples, altars, and the wealth of rare marbles, statues, and
> j bronzes, formerly dedicated to the service of heathen deities ;
Ij and not only is a curious subject of reflection offered to the
j mind of the beholder, but upon the panoramic scenes of the
Ij great past succeeding each other before the eye of a seer, is
imprinted many a marvellous lesson of the unfoidment of
j human souls for heaven.
Crowding and clustering thick come the varied and mixed
j spirit influences, some sweet, heavenly, and uplifting, others
depressing, saddening, and perplexing; but the darkened
church at midday, when no incense pervades the aisles, is
redolent of fusty smells, which remind one of old clothes.
I felt that to lift up the leathern curtain hanging over the
door, and let the purer air from outside flow in, and drive
out the stifling air, and perhaps the conglomerations of old
and subtle mesmeric auras, apparently here never disturbed,
would be a great improvement. Trying not to smell, I
followed the Franciscan monk who guided us, feeling that he
j would be the better for a new robe.
He was smiling, respectful, good-natured and ignorant,
j knowing nothing but the narrow life of a friar; living for
heaven by profession, and crushing, stultifying, and emascu-
j lating his spirit, in the mistaken process. He refreshed him¬
self frequently with copious pinches of snuff, which, collected
in the top of his nose, greatly interfered with the clear
delivery of his well-conned lessons of description. I pitied
the human weakness, which in the midst of asceticism, com¬
passionately spared itself this stimulating luxury as a relief
from the self-imposed deadening dulness of such a life. He
told us of the twenty-two ancient columns of cipolino, white
marble, and Egyptian granite, collected from various
pagan edifices; and following him we stepped over a floor
of the ancient mosaic known as Opus Alexandrinum; we
stood before interesting monuments, and listened to mar¬
vellous stories; but my thoughts were ever busy with the
friar, his life, his mind, his spiritual condition—the spiritual
condition of his brethren, of all monks and friars. I thought
of the dirty, .wretched-looking creatures I had seen and
encountered in the streets of Rome, and hanging about the
churches, attired in their long brown robes, with sandalled
feet, shaggy beards, and tonsured heads; I thought of the
lives given up in this mistaken way as meet offerings to
God—the God who gives life for enjoyment, progress, and
usefulness; and I thought that though many be the prayers,
and though the life be one of prayer, yet the one great
prayer of useful labour in the vast arena of human life,
loving and serving, is not said. Powerfully to my mind was
presented a picture of decrepitude in the church from such
abuses, and I wished that some angel’s wing might sweep
away all such deformities.
Thicker and thicker grew the spirit influences as we fol¬
lowed the monk; my head ached from them, and my limbs
dragged. How and then a sweet, loving voice was heard,
and a bright form shone at my side; but it was only a
momentary relief, for the cloud was thick. I felt confused
and dazed, and had an oppressive sense of old things. All
at once a vision came before my eyes of red flames licking
and wrapping themselves round these noble columns, devour¬
ing the gold and crimson hangings, melting the golden
candlesticks, spreading over the altars, and.defacing the
frescoes in the gilded dome. I wondered why such a vision
should suddenly have come before me, and at the same time
a voice said in my ear, “ Would it not be dreadful if such a
conflagration were to take place?” I shrank back appalled,
and answered, “ Oh, I hope never !”
Still following the monk we passed before the grand altar,
and all my poetic, aesthetic feelings were shocked by the
sight of a fat, animal-like, stupid old monk sitting at his
ease in a chair at some little distance before the altar, where
my own spirit felt ready to go up to heaven upon waves of
the highest inspiration. It was such a sudden descent from
the sublime to the ridiculous that I could not help a little
smile curling my lips, especially as the old fellow wore an
air of such superb self-satisfaction, almost command, and
seemed to survey me with such supreme contempt, setting
June 1, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
257
me down no doubt for a benighted Protestant. It was the
same look I have seen Protestant ladies, just arrived in
Rome, give to Roman Catholic priests. Turning my back,
and shutting him out of my sight, glad to forget such a
loathsome incongruity, I passed on in front of the chapel
of St. Helena, and from hence loving arms seemed extended
to me, and I could have believed St. Helena herself stood
before me, but the sight of her was not vouchsafed to me in
such an unfavourable atmosphere.
We stood before the chapel of Santa Croce, the burial
place of the Ponziani family, and the scene of the ecstatic
elevation of one of Rome’s favourite saints, Francesca
Romana. It occurred at the burial of her sister-in-law, and
is so remarkable as a spiritual manifestation that I will here
transcribe the story.
“ The mortal remains of Yanozza Ponziani (sister-in-law
of Francesca) were laid in the church of Ara-Cceli, in the
chapel of Santa Croce. The Roman people resorted there
in crowds to behold once more their loved benefactress—the
mother of the poor, the consoler of the afflicted. All strove
to carry away some little memorial of one who had gone
about among them doing good, and during the three days
which preceded the interment, the concourse did not abate.
On the day of the funeral Francesca knelt on one side of the
coffin, and in sight of all the crowd she was wrapt in ecstasy.
They saw her body lifted from the ground, and a seraphic
expression in her uplifted face. They heard her murmur
several times with an indescribable emphasis the word
Qmndo ? Quando ? When all was over, she still remained
immovable ; it seemed as if her soul had risen on the wings
of prayer, and followed Yanozza’s spirit into the realms of
bliss. At last her confessor ordered her to rise and go and
attend on the sick. She instantly complied, and walked
away to the hospital, which she had founded, apparently
unconscious of everything about her, and only roused from
her trance by the habit of obedience which, in or out of
ecstasy, never forsook her” (Lady Georgiana Fullerton’s
Lifeof Sta. Francesca Romana). From other stories related
of Santa Francesca, she must have been a wonderful
medium.
At length we stood before the Presepio (manger), where
the little painted doll, called the Sanctissimo Bambino, in
honour of the Infant Jesus, is exhibited during Epiphany,
in an appropriate surrounding scene, with images of the
Yirgin, Joseph, shepherds, women, sheep, and goats. The
people flock to see this childish representation with the
greatest delight, and innumerable prayers are offered up.
The little scene doubtless helps to strengthen in the minds
of the more ignorant of the people the reality of the birth¬
time of Jesus, and may be excused as at least innocent,
although certainly too paltry and petty to engage the atten¬
tion of developed minds.
The Bambino, when requested, is taken in its coffer in
a carriage to the houses of the sick, and is said to perform
many miracles. We were conducted to see it, carefully put
away in a safe shrine all to itself, somewhere near the
sacristry. At the top of an altar, in the room where the
Bambino is usually kept, ornamental doors were made to
glide apart, after having been unlocked by a monk who
carried the keys at his girdle; then, back of these, another
door was unlocked, and then a coffer was taken out and
unlocked. In this room I was almost thrown into a trance,
but successfully resisted the influences, although at the cost
of pain to myself. Strangers were present, and I did not
desire to make an exhibition of myself. Ho doubt I should
have been set down as a peculiar woman, half-mad, or sub¬
ject to fits. When the ugly little Bambino was exposed to
sight, I was utterly astonished, and violently repelled by
the apparent superstition of believing this image to be
miraculous; but a powerful spirit influence came from it to
me. Laying my fingers lightly upon it, the feeling streamed
into me of that power which had gradually been concentrated
and intensified through the lapse of years into this carved
and painted billet of wood by surrounding spirits, aided by
the faith of individuals on earth. I felt it had been used as
an instrument of good to the sick and suffering, and although
it might be the work of fanatic, earth-bound spirits operating
upon and through the minds of beings upon the earth-plane
like-minded with themselves, yet the intention was to trans-
I! mit good, and this feeling had doubtless drawn down bless¬
ings from above in answer to earnest prayer for the restora¬
tion of the sick. But the small, carved stone idols of the
savage may be also powerfully endowed, as I have sensibly
felt in a shop where such curiosities are sold, by taking them
into my hand. I cannot say the sensations are comfortable,
for the more ignorant and low the influences hanging about
| an object so endowed, the more painful to the medium.
The Bambino did not give me pain, only a gentle compas-
sion for the humble, child-like faith which could not yet
11 rise to higher practices and reception of things spiritual.
[! My heart responded to the fond love of simple women and
|| grateful children that had been lavished upon this innocent
little painted wooden doll, upon whose silken robe were sewn
numberless jewelled finger-rings, lockets, and orders, the
j offerings of loving hearts thankful for favours received.
| Following the example of others present, I even stooped and
kissed the Bambino lying in its sumptuous, silken-lined
strong box, with thanks welling up in my heart for the
human pain and suffering relieved by good spirits by means
| of this unattractive representation of the infant Jesus. At
the same time came to me a feeling which had frequently
come to me before, that certain low, fanatic spirits present
! looked upon me with the jealousy that children might feel
| at the presence of one who had come to take away a loved
11 possession. My kiss was not approved by some of the
11 spirit-guardians of II Santissimo Bambino. In short, I was
11 the innocent, unconscious representative of that light of a
11 higher knowledge which must eventually remove from their
11 ignorantly fond grasp these fusty old toys, and they resented
I my presence and repelled what might come with me, loving
| their darkness better. Spirits of the same type, narrow,
I bigoted, fanatic spirits, who cover us with a cloud, and
I enslave the minds of those they attach themselves to, have
j frequently made me suffer intensely in Rome. Their oppo-
| sition has felt to me as a thick wall surrounding me; an
| atmosphere of hatred seemed to be about me, in which my
| spirit felt stifling; I would grow depressed, weary, with a
| sorrow unutterable at heart, causing actual physical pain,
j Sometimes I have seen them as a cloud hanging low down
| in the air, the front of which would take the shape of a
| woman, with others clustering behind her, looking at me
j with glowering eyes and malignant expression. I would
| speak to them with the gentlest kindness, repeating the
| beautiful words of Jesus on the Mount, “ ‘ Love your enemies,
I bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you,
| and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute
| you.’—Even so will I do unto you : let the power of love
j | operate also upon your hearts, and turn you kindly unto
| me ! ” and regarding them with gentle firmness, I have seen
j the faces droop with shame, and the cloud dispersed.
Puzzled by the strange feelings which had beset me at
j Ara-Cceli, on the evening of the same day, I took up my
| pencil to see if any of my spirit friends could throw any light
I on the subject. I could not tell at that time, although I
| have gained experience since, why in a holy place like a
i church I should have felt the contrary to the calm sweet in-
) I fluences I might have looked for. The following com-
] | munication was given through my hand in answer to my
|| inquiries:—
“ The old monastery* to which Ara-Cceli belongs, like a
good many others, is the haunt of wretched creatures, who
encompass, and hang about the walls like so many bat-like
existences, and oppress the minds of the living with sadness
and weariness of life, or sink them into the dulness of an
| almost animal existence, which goes on from day to day in
the same spiritless routine, without reflection. Elementaries
throng there, but spirits of earth make it an abode too—the
spirits of the lower orders of departed monks, and other
| weary, dark, ignorant souls, who have fed on bigotry all their
11 lives. It is a place of rest and peace to them, for they hate
i the light of higher spiritual knowledge, and cling about the
j old venerated relics, and graves. I do not deny that there
I are also good, pure, and holy influences there; there are
j many. You know God’s blue sky stretches, and the pure
| air blows over the infected marsh, over the pestilential grave-
I yard, and so there, where so many of the weary infesting
A convent of Minor Franciscans,
258
THE SPIRITUALIST,
JtlNE 1, 187?
spirits cling, the sweet angelic influences descend each day, |j
blessing the ceremonies, and consecrating the church to the f
worship of God. These are felt by minds prepared, and able ;
to receive them ; but to the worshippers who are sunk in the IJ
grossness of the flesh, and whose prayers are mere empty |
formulae, they are not appreciable. .j,;! j
u Why did you think of fire when you entered the church, !j
and see a conflagration ? Life grows stagnant—too stagnant |
here; Human beings stultify themselves, and instead of j
advancing, grow downwards, or backwards, or become fos- I
silised, and do not grow at all. Then comes some grand j
cleansing, electritying convulsion of nature, or society, and j
by one terrific sweep old encumbering things are borne into j
the whirlpool or abyss, and the earth is relieved of a weight. ||
Society, stunned, knows not what to think; but at length Jj
the lessons sought to be conveyed sink into the minds of j
men, and the finger of God is seen. . ': |
“A great, and, as it is called, miraculous power, has been |
bestowed upon that ugly little wooden doll, called after the j
Infant Jesus, and is preserved about it by spirit power and !
protection. It has, indeed, been the means, in their hands, i
of removing disease, because, by taking it to the bedsides j
of the suffering, new influences are brought to bear upon j
the sufferers, and the old diseased influences are dispelled, j
So a powerful, but low and painful, influence hangs about I
the idols to which the African savage pins his faith. These j
spirits are near the earth ; they establish themselves as tute- |
lary deities of mortals, and concentrate their power about j
and in certain material objects devoted to them. But I do !
not mean to rank Roman Catholic spirits, nor Roman Ca- j
tholicS, with the low spirits that respond to the African !
worshippers; they are certainly higher, but not yet high j
enough. j
. “You have now had a personal and painful experience |
that what B. wrote through TVs hand about old houses, and j
the way spirits continue to linger in their old places of abode, j
is true. Sometimes an earthly conflagration is essential to |
clear all tliese things awny, unless education teaches men to |
clear them away of themselves. We shall show you the j j
beauty of the Catholic Church, but we shall also unerringly j j
point out her deformities. - Every picture has its reverse j j
side: man progresses ever, and spiritual truth is ever j j
developing into higher expressions of beauty. What you j j
receive to-day is good; but to-morrow, treading upon to- | |
day, you will rise to a higher round of the ladder. To ! |
remain in the state and condition of to-day would only j j
deform and deaden the spirit.” j j
Borne, May 23rd, 1877. j / i
DR. SLADE’S OFFER TO PROFESSOR LANKESTER.
The above offer has not been published by the London 1 ]
daily papers, and this is in accordance with the general i j
want of principle displayed by most of them from first to j !
last in presenting a one-sided view of the case. It has been j j
strougly urged upon us that the letters of Messrs. Simmons j j
and Slade in last week’s Spiritualist^ should be inserted by j j
subscription as an advertisement in some of the more j ]
influential daily and weekly papers; the expense, it is said, j j
would probably amount to between £1 and £1 10s. each I |
paper. If it is generally desired to carry out this plan, Mr. j j
W. H. Harrison, of 38, .Great Russell-street, London, is | j
willing to promote the public convenience by expending all j j
sums sent to him within the next few days for the purpose, j j
in the insertion of such advertisements to the full extent j j
the subscriptions permit, and will publish the results next j j
week. j j
Spiritualism in Marylebone.—Last Sunday night the quarterly j j
tea meeting of the Marylebone Society of Inquirers into Spiritualism I j
was held at the Quebec Hall, Great Quebec-street, London, under the I jj
presidency of Mr. Charles Hunt during the first part of the evening, j| j;
and afterwards of Mrs. Hallock. There was a good attendance. In the j j i
course of the evening a resolution was passed expressing confidence in j{ j
the reality of Dr. Slade’s mediumship, and approval of his recent j)|
“liberal, honest, and excellent” offer to Professor Lankester. The jjj
report read by Mr. Charles White, the honorary secretary, set forth that i i
the society was £13 5s. in debt, partly incurred in the purchase of per- i) i
manent stock. Subscriptions towards paying off the debt were made in jjj
the room, and it was resolved to get up a picnic and a concert to clear off jjj
the remainder. Messrs. Aj)lin, Ashman, Davids, Drake, Hocker, and jjj
Majnard addressed the meeting. jH
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
SEANCES WITH ME. J. W. FLETCHER.
Two impromptu seances have taken place recently at Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory’s, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square,
London, with Mr. J. W. Fletcher, the trance medium, who
has recently arrived in this country from the United States.
The accumulation of evidence tends to show that when Mr.
Fletcher passes into the trance state in any mixed company,
including a majority whom he has never seen, and could not
have anticipated meeting, he gives information about their
departed friends, even to the extent of spelling unusual
names.
On the two following occasions Mr. Fletcher had ijot been
engaged to give seances, but the sittings were improvised at
a few minutes’ notice.
On the first- occasion the entranced medium told Mr.
Serjeant Cox that his daughter, who gave the name of
“ Florence,” was near him, and was “ pushing up his hair”
in a childish, affectionate way. Mr. Serjeant Cox admitted
that he had had a daughter named Florence, who in earth-
life was addicted to the playful practice stated. He then
put questions in the endeavour to ascertain whether the
revelation arose from the reading of his past thoughts, but
without obtaining a decisive solution of the problem.
Last Tuesday night, at another impromptu stance, Mr.
Fletcher told a lady, whom he had never seen before, the
nature of her family surroundings, and told her that she had
recently had to take the name of her departed mother. She
admitted this to be true.
After telling Mrs. Makdougall Gregory that certain
visitors would not come so soon as she expected,
the medium turned to Prince Albert of Solms, and told
him that he saw a spirit near him who gave the name of
“William with four strokes (IIH.) after it ” (probably IV.)
who was related to him. Then he saw another person, who
took him into a field where several were present, and he
seemed to kill another man, but not in a war. The one
killed seemed to be the brother of Prince Albert. Hid he
understand this ?
The listener replied that he did.
A few other particulars were given.
Mrs. Wiseman, of Orme-square, Bays water, was then
accurately told some details about her private affairs.
Mrs. Ramsay, whom the medium had not seen till a few
minutes before the seance began, was informed that a spirit
who gave the name of “ Mootie ” was near her; that
“ Mootie ” had been a long time in spirit life, and had departed
from earth in another country, the name of which began with
“ I.” and ended with “ A.”
Mrs. Ramsay said that this was true, and that the child
had died in India. A long message was then whispered to
her by the entranced medium, and she stated that it was
entirely accurate
Two other ladies were given truthful information about
their departed relatives.
A spirit was described as standing near Mr. Harrison, who
was unable to recognise the same.
Other spirits were stated to be in proximity to an
Ambassador to the English Court and his wife; the recogni¬
tion seemed to be partial.
The medium being by this time tired, awoke.
While the medium was in the trance state, the messages
were claimed to be given by an Indian spirit who controlled
him, named Winona.
The new edition of Gregory’s Animal Magnetism will be out in a few
days.
The Slade Testimonial.—This testimonial still lies at the offices of
the National Association of Spiritualists for signature by any who have
witnessed the phenomena exhibited through Dr. Slade’s mediumship. As,
it is desired shortly to forward it to Dr. Slade, those who have not yet
signed are requested to kindly call and do so.
Illness oe Mr. Wm. Tebb.—We regret to hear from Mrs. Tebb that
that faithful worker in the cause of Spiritualism, Mr. William Tebb,
has been suffering from a severe illness. She, however, adds that he is
recovering, and hopes to leave home sometime this week. She says:—
“ He has had fearful suffering from abscess in the ear, and neuralgia,
and only obtained partial relief last Friday. We have good hope now
that he will begin to recover his strength in a bracing air. We do not
think he would have borne the pain so well without daily treatment
from Mr. Ashman, who has given us the best help in his power, both
night and day, during this great trial.”
259
June 1, 1877: THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
THE LAST SOIREE OF THE SEASON.
On Wednesday next, June 6th, the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists will hold its last conversazione for this season, at 38, Great
Russell-street, London. Miss Ella Dietz and Mr. Dietz have kindly
promised to give some recitations from Mrs. Barrett Browning and
other poets. All who have listened to either of these accomplished
readers will hail this opportunity of hearing them once more, as it is
only on rare occasions that they are able to spare time from their pro¬
fessional engagements for the pleasure and benefit of their friends.
THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING.
Last Tuesday afternoon the third annual general meeting of the
National Association of Spiritualists was held at 38, Great Russell-
street, London, under the presidency of Mr. Alexander Calder.
The minutes of the last meeting having been read and confirmed, j
Miss Kislingbury read the annual report, which is printed upon another
page. Its adoption was moved by Mr. J. J. Morse, seconded by Mr. j.
Frederick Collingwood, and passed unanimously. . ui !'
The President then announced the uncontested election, or, in most |
cases, the re-election, of the following members of the Council:—Mr. J.
T. Dodd, Mr. J. Lamont, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Newton Crosland, Mr. ]
A. E. Lovell, Mr. J. White, Mr. H. Withall, Mr. B. Coleman, Mr. W. j
B. Mawson, Mr. F. A. Binney, Mrs. Strawbridge, Mr. R. Pearce, Mr.
E. Dawson Rogers, Mr. W. P. Adshead, Mrs. Nosworthy, Mrs. Morell
Theobald, Mr. W. N. Armfield, Dr. K. Cook, Mr. C. Reimers, Mr. T.
P. Barkas, Dr. Geo. W.yld, Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., Mrs/ j
Louisa Lowe, Mr. G. F. Green, Mr. C. Pearson. Total, twenty-five. i.
Captain James moved the re-election of Mr. J. H. Andre and Mr.
Henry Cook as auditors. This was seconded by Mr. Potts, and passed
unanimously. •- ' ; \,r ||
Mr. Dawson Rogers wished to make a motion not on the programme, j j
to the effect that the meeting tendered sympathy to Dr. Carter Blake in 11
respect to his severe and protracted illness, and hoped soon to have the \
pleasure of seeing him again at the meetings of the Association. This
was seconded by Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, and passed unanimously. i \
Mr. Fitz-Gerald moved a vote of thanks to Mr. Alexander Calder for ! \
his able occupancy of the office of President during the past year ; Mr. h
Calder had won the respect of all Spiritualists who knew him by his |1
action and work in relation to Spiritualism. This was seconded by Mr. I
E. T. Bennett and passed unanimously, with acclamation.
Mr. Calder said: The thanks which you are pleased to greet me j'
with, are more appropriately due to your Council and Secretary j,
for the- very admirable way in which they have performed their j(
various duties. It is to them that we must ascribe the largest i |
portion of our success. It must be very gratifying to us that our Associa- j i
tion is obtaining a firm footing. It is pleasing to know that our effective ! <
numbers were never so large as at present. Our prosperity is a sign of i (
the solidity and expansion of a very important work. It was expected I <
that the late aggressions against Spiritualism would have done injury, ij
but we are now in a position to affirm that in some respects they have j <
done good, Besides attracting to our proceedings a considerable share (
of public attention, they have induced some of the most gifted thinkers | >
among Spiritualists to join our ranks. In thus casting in their lot with us, j)
they have exhibited a creditable magnanimity, and they have set a bright ! (
example to other unreasoning ones, yet outside. I said unreasoning ones, | (
for the true reasoner is full of goodness, and asks why he should hate ? j)
It is a pity that all Spiritualists do not see the advantage to the common j (
cause which flows from the simple principle of unity. It is more than ] (
singular that there should be some who seem to prefer disunion, and a i
few, a very few, who, assuming an unwarrantable responsibility, even j
preach strife. And yet it is but a truism to assert that the fruits 1)
derivable to all from a state of unity are far sweeter and more enduring |
than any obtainable under a perilous course of strife. Then a word as !)
to our work. When we consider the rampant attitude of Materialists, j
and the highly degrading forms their thoughts and their works are jj
liable sometimes to assume, I feel deeply convinced of the absolute jj
necessity of our existence as a society. The future of Spiritualism 1/
is intimately connected with our Association—did I say of Spirit- j
ualism, I might add of religion; and when I say religion, I might ij
have added of society also. For we lead as it were the forlorn hope j)
of safety. We belong to the advanced guard, battling against error j
for the foundation truths of nature. While other religious systems jj
are sliding, and there rages outside the churches a controversy j)
destructive to some of the noblest doctrines of Christianity, it is jj
chiefly in the Spiritualist ranks that the sturdiest defenders of some jj
of Christ’s great truths are found. It is here we hold firmly the jj
knowledge of eternal life; not as a truth learned in boyhood and held j j
as others hold it, by tacit acceptance, but our observations are based on j j
personal experience, and this gives a value and charm to our faith, j
The proclamation of this truth, if we had no other, is a sufficient ij
reason for our existence as an Association, and you may be sure that jj
amidst all the societies which meet at this period, however humble jj
our efforts, none can more appropriately claim a nobler work in the j)
cause of humanity than the National Association of Spiritualists.
Mr. Glendinning moved a vote of thanks to the members of the j(
committees, adding that Mr. Fitz-Gerald, M!r. Rogers, Mrs. Maltby, jj
and others whom he could not mention without having the list of names j j
of the members before him, had been especially active.
Mr. Harrison, as a black sheep who was a member of but one com- jj
mittee, which he had not attended for a long time, seconded this. The I j
other members of the committees had been most active, especially Mr. I j
Fitz-Gerald. He rose also to respectfully ask if the Council would take i)
into consideration the question whether it would not be to the public I j
interests of the Spiritualism of future years, to decree now that no person {{
in any way commercially connected with Spiritualism should ever be'
eligible for election upon the Council.
. Mr. Rogers thought that Mr. Harrison had intended to suggest that
no person who received payment for-services rendered to the Associa¬
tion, should have a seat upon the Council. He considered that this
would be a good principle to establish. He would try to do it.
Mr. J. J. Morse thought the same, although such action would affect
his position as a member of the Council.
The Chairman proposed a vote of thanks to Miss Kislingbury, the
secretary, for the excellent way in which she had fulfilled her duties.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald seconded this, it was passed with acclamation, and the
meeting broke up.
THE STATISTICS IN THE THIRD ANNUAL REPORT.
Last Tuesday the third annual meeting of the National Association
of Spiritualists was held, and it is gratifying to find this efficient organi¬
sation in so healthy a state; it is doing good and efficient work, is free
from inharmony, and free from debt. During the year closing with
the third annual report, 110 new members have been elected; during
that and previous years several lukewarm non-paying members had been
on the books, and these, after due notice to themselves, were recently
struck off en masse to the number of 53; in addition to these 25 members
resigned during the year chiefly for private reasons, and 3 have been re¬
moved by the finger of earthly death. Notwithstanding this reduction
to the extent of 81, the new and efficient members have not only
replaced them, but given a substantial increase of 29. The retiring
81 being so largely composed of non-paying or small-paying
members, cause little reduction in the receipts of the Asso¬
ciation, but the 110 efficient members who more than replace
them, have largely added to the receipts. The average number of
members elected monthly in 1875 was 6; in 1876 it amounted to 12;
and in the year just reported upon, to between 9 and 10 ; but the
latter have been almost entirely paying members, whilst in the previous
year more honorary and non-efficient members were elected. Thus the
average monthly increase of efficient members for the last two years is
probably the same. The figures just given do not agree with
those in the report, which erroneously show a decrease of 40 members
during the year, instead of an increase of 29. On inquiry,
we learn that the actual number this year had been compared
with the registered number of last year, which included those
who had resigned previously. Probably some official correction
will be made next week. Several of the older members have increased
their subscriptions, so that altogether there has been foundation for
some recent talk about abolishing the remainder of the three years’
Guarantee Fund. In all probability, however, the rest of the fund will
be required this year, in accordance with the original calculation; but
next year the Association will probably be in a flourishing state, solely
from the ordinary income arising from members’ subscriptions; and it
is a great result to have established such a large and useful public
institution in so short a time. America, with its numerous Spiritualists,
has not been able to do the same, nor is there any other Spiritualist
organisation in Europe at all equal to the one in our midst.
Mr. E. W. Wallis, trance medium, is about to visit Newcastle to give
some inspirational public addresses.
Miss Fairlamb is in Edinburgh, giving seances to a private circle of
inquirers, consisting of nine sitters.
Dr. Carter Blake is improving in health, and, we are glad to state
is now considered to be out of danger.
The barque M. A. Dixon, Captain Corner, has passed St. Helena on
her homeward voyage, as telegraphed from Madeira. Mrs. Corner
(Florence Cook) is on her way home in the same ship.
Mr. W. Eglintqn, in consequence of continued ill-health, leaves
London for Malvern to-morrow, and intends, when sufficiently restored,
to visit towns in the south-west of England, and in South Wales.
Mr. Benjamin Coleman’s interesting pamphlet, The Rise and Pro¬
gress of Spiritualism in England, is now out of print. Messrs. Colby and
Rich, of Boston, United States, may possibly have a few copies on hand.
Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage.—Mrs. Weldon has recently taken four
additional deserted children into her Orphanage at Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, London. Mr. J. N. T. Martheze has subscribed £10
towards the Orphanage ; Mr. W. J. Colville has made two or three col¬
lections after his seances in its aid ; and several Spiritualists have sent
orders for a new book of music which Mrs. Weldon is about to bring out,
and for which she wants subscribers.
A Sermon on Harriet Martineau.—A few days ago the Rev. H. R*
Haweis preached a sermon at St. James’s Church, Westmoreland-street,
near Portland-place, London, on Harriet Martineau. After speaking
of her great nobility of character in devoting her whole life and powers
to the good of others, which is the truest religion, he said that the defect
of her mind was to reject all belief in that which she could not wholly
comprehend or master. This defect, Mr. Haweis went on to say, is
peculiarly characteristic of the present age, thinking men being so
weary of theological controversy that they will have nothing to do with
what they term the “ unknowable,” forgetting that knowledge and
religious belief, though each occupying a distinct domain, do not
preclude one another, and each serve a separate purpose. He enjoined
on his hearers, as the highest Christianity, to do such work as that
done by Harriet Martineau, for “ though she could not get hold of
God, God had got hold of her.” Nevertheless, he said, a “ conscious ”
faith in Him was the most desirable state to arrive at. The church
was quite full on the occasion, and,, as usual, a large proportion of the
congregation consisted of Spiritualists, who regularly attend the services
at St. James’s, and form a large proportion of the seat-holders,
260
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 1,1877,
THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION |
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The following is the third annual Report of the National I
Association of Spiritualists, read by Miss Kislingbury, the I
secretary, at the annual general meeting of the members |
last Tuesday night at 38, Great Russell-street, under the I
presidency of Mr. Alexander Calder :—•
Ladies and Gentlemen,—In reviewing the proceedings
of the Association during the past year, your Council feels j
that there is every reason for congratulation on the progress j
that has been made in this, the third year of its existence, j;
In point of numbers, the increase of members has not been |
particularly great, for though we are always adding steadily i!
to our ranks, the balance is kept very nearly even by the |]
withdrawal of those who, from indifference, or more fre- h
quently from private reasons, no longer care to be publicly jj
associated with the Spiritualist body. At our last general jj
meeting we reported 442 members. Since then as many as jj
81 have been erased from our books—53 from default of j
payment, 25 from resignation, and 3, viz., Mr. W. E. j
Bassett, Mr. Andrew Leighton, and Mr. C. T. Hook, from
removal by death. So that, though our numbers now stand !
at 402, we have in fact had during the year a considerable j
increase of effective members. j
By far the largest part of our reinforcements have come jj
from the ranks of the inquirers who have been admitted to j(
the free circles for investigators. These circles, first started I)
last spring by Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester, have jj
been this year continued by the united liberality of that k
gentleman and Mr. Martin Smith, and have proved of in- jj
estimable benefit. Since the beginning of this year they jj
have been attended by over 200 persons, about 80 of whom j|
have been inquirers. With a very few exceptions, these jj
stances, always held under strict test conditions, and very jj
rarely in the dark, have been successful in their results, and j<
being conducted in an orderly manner, with honest and ij
straightforward mediums, they have given general satisfac- jj
tion to those who have been privileged to attend them.
The second great feature in the progress of the Associa- jj
tion is the growth of the library, which has been, if not j
rapidly, at least steadily increasing. The permanent library, j
the actual property, by purchase or presentation, of the jj
Association, has now reached 444 volumes, mostly standard j
works on Spiritualism, mesmerism, science, and philosophy, j
The lending library, which was formed about this time last j
year, now consists of 105 volumes, chiefly duplicates of j
those in the permanent library. This branch is made great ij
use of by new members and subscribers, and the loan of i
books is now being extended to the societies in alliance with j
us. There are also in the library 138 volumes, valuable ij
works, which have been lent for an indefinite period, chiefly i
by Mr. David Wilson, Mr. Chinnery, and Mr. Martin Smith, j
The whole collection of books, therefore, amounts to 687 jj
volumes, 549 of these being the property of the Association, j
In addition, we must also reckon a large collection of jj
pamphlets and periodicals, the more valuable of which are j
being bound from time to time, as the funds of the Associa- j
tion will permit. There still remain a large number of jj
works bearing directly or indirectly upon Spiritualism and j
kindred subjects, which are not yet on our shelves, and jj
which it would be highly desirable to place there. A gentle- !
man has lately offered £1 towards a fund for increasing the j
library, if eleven other members can be found to join him, j
and we sincerely hope to see this plan worked out, since it i
should certainly be one of the objects of this Association to j
have in its library the best and most complete collection of j
works on Spiritualism and the science of man.
The amount of foreign literature has increased largely j
during the year, and our relations with Spiritualists in jj
foreign countries have been strengthened by the exchange of |j
periodicals and correspondence. The Spanish society at jj
Madrid, and another at Mexico, have entered into friendly jj
alliance with us, and our bond of friendship with the French ij
Spiritists has been drawn closer by the visits of your presi- jj
dent and secretary to Paris during the troubles that befell ;j
the editor of the Revue Spirite. Since that time advertise- ij
ments of the National Association and particulars of our jj
reading room are inserted regularly in the French and
Spanish journals, and visitors from the Continent frequently
find their way to our offices.
Returning to the commencement of our Association’s year,
the earliest event we have to chronicle is the election of our
beloved and honoured chairman, Mr. Alexander Calder,
officer of the Order of the French Legion of Honour, as
first president of the Association. His devotion to the
duties of the Council and to the general interests of our
body must be acknowledged by all with pride and thankful¬
ness.
The next event of importance was the arrival in England
of the famous slate-writing medium, Dr. Slade, on his way
to fulfil an engagement with the St. Petersburg Committee
of Enquiry into the Phenomena of Spiritualism. As soon
as the news of his intended prosecution by Professor Lan-
kester was made known, Mr. W. H. Harrison called a meet¬
ing of Spiritualists, from whom a committee was chosen to
concert measures for the defence of Dr. Slade, and other
mediums who might be attacked. Although this was not a
committee of the Association, its plans were approved and
aided by your Council as far as circumstances would allow;
the meetings of the committee were held at these offices,
and at a special meeting of the Council on the 29th of
December, it was resolved, 11 That a memorial be sent to the
Home Secretary, signed by your president, remonstrating
against the action of the Government in conducting the
prosecution on appeal.” Copies of this address were sent to
all the members of the Legislature, to all the Middlesex
magistrates, to various members of the Royal Society, and
of other public bodies. The result is known to you all. The
celebrated table, now become historical, which was used by
Dr. Slade, has lately been received at our offices, where its
innocence of trick arrangements can be tested by all inves¬
tigators. On the 31st of January this year, when fresh
proceedings had been instituted against Dr. Slade, resolu¬
tions of protest were passed at a second special meeting of
the Council, and were inserted in the daily papers. These
were followed by articles in the Examiner and other journals,
unfair and unfavourable as need hardly be said, but which at
any rate helped to give publicity to our existence as a united
body of Spiritualists, of greater strength and extension than
had hitherto been supposed.
We have further to notice the meetings for the reading of
papers and for discussions, which have been held fortnightly
under the auspices of the Research Committee. Papers of
great value and interest have been contributed by Mr.
Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. W. H. Harrison,
Mr. Stainton Moses, and others, and the discussions have
fairly made up in interest what was lacking in point of
attendance, the numbers present having been sometimes
discouragingly few.
The Conference held in February last was well attended,
and the papers were of a superior order. They were con-
contributed by Mr. T. P. Barkas, Mr. T. Shorter, Mr. R.
Pearce, Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. A. J. Smart, Mrs. Lowe,
and Mr. G. F. Green.
The soirees have also been continued monthly since
November last, and have on the whole been successful,
though not very well attended of late. Great credit is due
to the friends who have contributed to the pleasure of these
social meetings, especially to the Misses Withall, who have
so admirably carried out the musical arrangements. On the
last occasion in particular the special musical entertainment
was highly successful; the sum of £5 0s. 6d. was realised,
and was contributed to the fund for the alterations in the
reading room. The last event has been the recent substitu¬
tion of folding doors for the partition wall between the
reading and the Council rooms; the alteration has been
successfully carried out, and it is agreed by all to be a great
improvement to the appearance as well as to the comfort of
the rooms.
Among those who have done special service to the Asso¬
ciation, in addition to the liberal contributors above named,
we must mention Dr. Carter Blake and Mr. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald, who have given an unusual amount of time and
labour to the work of the Research, Library, and Stance
Committees.
A statement of the financial position at the close of the
year 1876 is appended to this report, duly audited. It will
THE SPIRITUALIST,
261
June 1, 1877.
be seen that the sum of £120 was contributed by special
donation to the guarantee fund. At the beginning of the
present year a circular was issued by the Council, at the
advice of the Finance Committee, requesting members to
raise their subscriptions in order that no call should be made
on the guarantors this year. About twenty-five members
have responded to this appeal, leaving still a large deficiency
to be filled up. We would therefore urge upon those mem¬
bers who have not yet paid their subscriptions for this year,
not to allow the burden to be borne by a generous few, nor
to leave an Association whose work they believe to be of
great importance to the world, in any want of means to
carry out efficiently that which it has undertaken. The
following is an account of the income and expenditure for
the year 1876
RECEIPTS.
Cr.
Balance from last account
Subscriptions  
Donations  
Guarantee Fund ...
Balance from soirees ...
£257 18
23 8
120 15
£ s. d.
... 57 5 8
M
0
0
— 401 10 11
... 5 15 0^
EXPENDITURE.
Dr.
Rent, Rates, Taxes, &c.
Less received for Rooms sub-let
Salaries and Wages  
Printing and Stationery ...
Advertising
Postage 
Housekeeping and Coals
Sundries 
Library Expenses
Furniture and Repairs
Balance in hand, viz.:—
Cash ...  
Petty cash  
Stock on sale  
Less due to Seance Committee
„ ,, Research ,,
„ „ Provincial
£404 18 4
£143 12 0
19 3 3
  124 8 9
   204 14 0
30 10 04
29 8 0
19 2 8
7 7 8i
2 13
.    —— 89 3 51
  32 8 1
  12 18 0
£453 12 3J
£19 4 5
0 3 1
5 13
£24 8 9
£9 19 0
2 0 8
13 0
  £13 2 8
  11 0 1
£404 18 4|
iCorrcsponhnue.
[drill /res Inn is lioen lo correspondents, mho sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
fo those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.]
AUTHORITY lit REMGIOX.
Sir,—Mr. Green’s opinion on the mode of arriving at the foundations
of the Christian religion, viz., ‘‘personal spiritual experience,” and
“ authority on the authentic experience of others,” may be correct, but
the conclusions and principles he draws from it are most uncertain.
How can a science or philosophy of “ religion ” be defined by “ the
light which is given to every man,” seeing that that light is variable in
each ? It is extraordinary that the <( light ” given us by Christ, the
undoubted Founder of the Christian religion by the authority of
undeniable historical evidence, should not be set up as to lighten “ every
man that cometh into the world ” without controversy. What private
j udgment can impugn that “authority 1 ” “ The rotten superstructures ”
that have been raised upon that foundation have been caused by those
very varied lights of men’s own devices. But my object is to ask Mr.
Green if “it is the special mission or result of Spiritualism to throw a
light on the foundations of religious belief,” why this has not been
done by the communications of Swedenborg from the spirit world,
which attested the infallibility of the Bible, and gave mankind its
spiritual sense, showing its relation to the whole world? This
assumption of infallilibity is given by Spiritualism. If the experience
of other mediums controvert its truth, which “ light ” is to shine as
the guiding star 1 “ The comparison of authorities ” would surely give
the “ rational foundation ” to the double evidence, and the attempt to
“ relegate the Bible to the place of the fables and mythologies of the
past” be shown to be the destruction of the life-giving Word of God.
ARCHBISHOP HUGHES AS A SPIRIT.
Sir,—As you have had the goodness to publish (March 30th) my
account of the remarkable slate-writ ten communications received by me
in San Francisco on the 21st and 22nd January last, from the late Arch¬
bishop Hughes, of New York, on Spiritualism as a religion in general,
and specially on the point of the conception and birth of Christ, I deem it
proper, and due to the subject, to follow it with a farther one received
by' me here in Paris from the same eminent Catholic prelate three days
if
>
I !
! j
I |
l)
j i
s
j
ago, through Madame R., the lady through whom came all the Publius
Syrus communications in Latin, and various others (Spanish, Portuguese,
and Hebrew), which appeared in The Spiritualist last year. I will only
remark that she is a devout Catholic, though I am not so a bit. At
Firman’s I could only see my mother materialised, nor always that.
That has been a great blessedness, but I naturally wanted also to hear
from her, as I used to do here before. I went to Madame R. for that
purpose, to which was added the desire of asking Publius Syrus for a
certain explanation (which, by the way, he gave, though that is not the
question now). I accordingly invoked my mother, so far as strong
desire and appeal may constitute what you may call invocation. Instead
of the expected name came that of “ Hughes.” And this was what he
wrote, through the rapid hand of the medium, who writes what she
hears. I translate :—
Hughes : I come, friend, to confirm to you my communications, and to
give you, as a sign of friendship, the words of peace and consolation neces¬
sary to all Christians of the faith truly admirable. [Observe that he
thus paraphrases the Pax vobiscum with which he used in California to
introduce himself; and if you refer to his former communications, I
think you will agree with me that by “ chreliens de la foi vraiment
admirable," he means simply Christian Spiritualists]. I come to you
glad to have been understood [remember how I before spoke of his
Catholicism as being now esoteric, and so difierent from its former
dogmatic orthodoxy as to be simply our Spiritualism], and my language
ivill exhibit the influence of that; for where sympathy reigns the links
of union quickly fasten. When He who was Jesus came upon your earth,
men were already very greatly perverted, and His grand and holy form
came to confront all their iniquities, to make them shrink back (reader)
before it, to make them repent; in a word, to return into God (revenir en
Dieu), their Father, their Creator, whom they had forgotten. I am sure
that if the men of your world descend to the bottom of their conscience, to
find there their honest candour, they would give to the crucified Jesus a part
of their soul—a part which they would offer to Him as a just tribute to
His devotedness and to His love. But, alas ! the men of to-day resemble
those of former times. The same passions excite them, and; though they
may have changed in name—perhaps according to language and customs—
they are none the less of the same essence. And so Jesus is still ignored
(meconnu, i.e., not understood) ; but there is found here below a nucleus of
enlightened spirits ivhich renders justice, which yields tribute, ichich offers
love and sacrifice to Him whom we honour as a holy prophet. And that
nucleus of ardent souls (ames selees) who are on the path of truth, will
see the faith which will feel daily develope in them the faith ivhich ivill
give them all the germs of the virtues which Christ has sown upon the
earth. Be one of those. Strive by self-sacrifice (renoncement), by self-
abnegation, by charity, to become one of those chosen of Jesus. Let your
heart honour Him, and serve Him faithfully. Let all your thoughts, like
His, rise towards God to adore Him, and descend towards men to serve
them. And then, my son, you will feel an interior voice descend into your
heart, and say to you with benign accents, Man of faith, Man of good,
be blessed, and may all your virtue serve to glorify Him who was your
Saviour, your friend, your prophet, in a word. Him who united in Himself
all the truths to transmit them to mankind whom He came to save"
This is certainly sublime, lovely, and divine language, while yet so
simple. Chance of occasion and of means of communication (if there
is such a thing as chance) brought me into this relation with Archbishop
Hughes, who, knowing that I would write and print, found in me simply
an available organ or channel for the expression of his present mind.
How far he has changed his former dogmatic beliefs I need not further
point out; I only repeat that his Catholicism now is simply our Spirit¬
ualism. J. L. O’Sullivan.
Paris.  —
TUB HUMAN DOUBLE.
Sin,—In the account I gave at the discussion on Form Manifestations
on the 14th May of the appearance of what appeared to be my double to
a friend of mine in London, while I was at Cardiff, I appear to have
omitted part of what my apparent double said to my friend. It was, as
nearly as I can remember, as follows:—“ I have been hurt, old fellow;
go home; you will get a letter from me in the morning, telling yon all
about it.”
You will observe that the coincidence is made very much more remark¬
able by the presence of the words “ I have been hurt,” spoken at the
time, within a few minutes, when I was being knocked down.
A. Joy.
Great Russell-street.
FORM MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—My friend, Mr. O’Sullivan, calls in question my wisdom in
desiring the abolition of the cabinet, and declares that such a course of
experiment as I desiderate would be fatal to successful manifestations,
such as tbe Count de Bullet has obtained. Permit me to explain, for the
benefit of my friendly critic, and of others who are interested in the
question, that my remarks were addressed to a special kind of experi¬
ment only, viz., to that conducted in public circles for the benefit of in¬
vestigators, and for tbe conviction of sceptics.
To make my position clear, it is necessary for me to restate what I
have often insisted on before. I should like to see circles adapted to
the needs of those who frequent them. For those whose scientifically-
trained minds need exact experiment, I should like to see seances con¬
ducted on the severest principles of test; for I am fully sure that any
attempt to demonstrate such a phenomenon as that now under notice to
men of logical and exact minds by any means that do not preclude error
absolutely and entirely will fail, and not only that, but will react in the
opposite direction, will send the inquirer away with prejudice roused, and
with a shrug of contempt for the methods used for his enlightenment.
So long as investigators and sceptics are invited to seek light in public
circles,, the experiments must be conducted with precision. It may be
well, or not, according to opinion, to concern oneself with such inquirers;
262
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 1, 1877,
but so long as we do, for our own credit’s sake, for the sake of the cause
we advocate, for the sake of the medium on whom suspicion falls, we
must take pains to be exact.
But side by side with these circles I should like to see others, such as
that of which Mr. O’Sullivan speaks, where the communicating intelli¬
gences conduct their own experiments, make their own conditions, and
do what they can in such manner as they see fit. With these I would
not venture to interfere in any way, either by prescribing tests, or even
by introducing the sceptical element which so frequently ruins all by
its presence. I should feel myself holden from either course. I should
regard the circle as the laboratory in which the spirits perfect their
experiments before producing them under the captious and critical eye
of the investigator. In that circle I should expect to see many tentative
experiments, some failures, and many successes, to which repeated
sitting and patient watching and waiting would contribute. As in
Professor Tyndall’s upper room those experiments, so beautiful in their
simplicity, so seemingly simple, yet so perfectly elaborated, are prepared
for public exhibition in the theatre of the Royal Institution, so I should
regard the private circle of which I speak as the laboratory of spirit in
which the invisible operators learn our conditions, feel their power, and
perfect their experiments.
To be sure, there is one thing else that I expect to find in such
circles, respecting which my analogy does not hold. There, if any¬
where, I should look for the meeting with friends gone before, and with
those whose mission it is to console, instruct, and build us up in know¬
ledge. I have been a member of such a circle for some years now, and
Mr. O’Sullivan has seen much of Count de Bullet’s painstaking and
prolonged investigations. He writes in terms not one whit too highly
coloured of the Count’s patience and care; and he tells us in language
which is clear and precise, of the admirable results he has obtained.
He will understand me then when I say that for such sacred family
circles I have nothing but praise; to meddle with their machinery would
be as impertinent as it would be foolish; to question their mode of pro¬
cedure, or the quality of the results obtained would be (to my mind) as
stupid as to intrude into the number of their members a Lankester or a
Carpenter.
But it is a different thing when we deal with open circles professedly
held for the purpose (among others) of affording the investigator,
sceptical or otherwise, opportunity for experiment and demonstration.
He comes there—the room is open to him, whatever his mental, moral,
and spiritual tone may be—to air his crotchet, to demonstrate the folly
or expose the trickery that he fancies he has detected; or, if not that, he
comes in hope that he may be permitted to lift a comer of the vail, and
reverently to look into the laboratory of spirit, and see how these things
can be. The firm believers who are satisfied to frequent circles for the
sake of breathing the atmosphere of spiritual manifestations, or for the
gratification of curiosity, or on the chance of meeting a friend, may be
left out of the calculation here.
In a circle such as this I desiderate the utmost care, the most scrupu¬
lous precision in testing the evolution of phenomena. We know that
deceit and fraud have cast obloquy and ridicule on our investigations.
I would make them impossible. We know that for many long years we
have gone on with these form manifestations without materially in¬
creasing our knowledge, solely for want of opportunity for so doing. I
want that reproach removed. We allow investigations which do not
deserve the name to be carried on year after year in such a way as to
convince nobody, provoke ridicule and contempt from men used to
experiment in physical science, and to raise a cloud of suspicion and
doubt in the minds even of the most assured Spiritualist. I would have
that method for ever swept away. We are face to face with one of the
most complex problems, one of the most astounding allegations that can
be propounded for our solution and acceptance. Yet we conduct our
experiments in such a way—It would almost seem as if by malice afore¬
thought—that we are unable to answer the most primary questions
respecting it. We allow it to be environed with conditions which seem
perversely contrived to look suspicious; and lest we should simplify
trouble, and eliminate one element of doubt, we place the medium where
we cannot even see him, much less carry out the simple and harmless
experiments which should advance our scanty knowledge. I want this
process reversed.
.1 have every wish to avoid any rash act. I would err, if at all, on
the side of caution. I agree that “ it is not for us today down laws, and
conditions, and methods ” with dogmatic prescription. All attempts to
do so I should regard as proofs of ignorance and folly. The grasping of
the form when outside of the cabinet, as has two or three times been
attempted, is even worse. Any handling of the form, save by agreement
with the controlling intelligence, I equally set aside. It is not by such
rude methods that truth can be arrived at. I do not even desire to
impose any of the mechanical tests which find favour with some. I look
upon tying, and sealing, and nailing up, and putting in a bag or in a
cage, as so many expedients which, to a type of mind, are necessary so
long as the present conditions are maintained; and no longer. So long
as they are resorted to, I am sure we shall not get the best class of
phenomena; and I believe, moreover, that they establish in the mind a
confidence which is illusory. They will not prevent the unseen opera¬
tors working their own will; and to suppose that any bond yet invented
is “ spirit-proof” argues want of knowledge.
No: the desideratum is a test which shall be conclusive to the
observer; which shall leave the medium at ease; and which, at the
same time, shall enable investigation to be conducted without injury to
him, and with some hope of progress. That which I have proposed
answers all these requirements; and be it remembered, that it is not
my presumptuous suggestion. It comes to us from one who may be
supposed to know what he is doing, and who has suggested that the
best conditions would be for the medium to be placed on a sofa in a
corner of the room. That may not do, as Mr. O’Sullivan suggests, for
all; but here, at any rate, is one case in which it may be tried.
Mr. O’Sullivan does me the honour to call me a fellow-labourer and a
student. I hope the time will never come, here or hereafter, when I
shall cease to be a student of the mysteries that surround me. I draw
a wide distinction between the investigator, who too frequently assumes
the name for the purpose of cloaking curiosity, or disguising a wish to
find what he is searching into untrue, and the student who not only in¬
vestigates with an unbiassed mind, but takes pains to correlate his own
shred of experience with the facts explored by others, and recorded both
now and in days gone by. The true student not only sees, but reads,
and thinks, and takes wide views. I would that Spiritualists at large
could be persuaded that the most advanced of them are but dabblers on
the margin of the great ocean of truth; that their own private know¬
ledge must needs be limited, and that the best way of extending it is to
establish communication, and exchange signals with those who, now
and in time past, are, or have been, co-students with themselves.
In this spirit I cordially admire the perseverance and truly philoso¬
phical method in which the investigations of the Comte de Bullet have
been carried out. My observations were never meant to apply to such
circles as his. His results are obtained after another method, and I
hope we may one day be favoured with such a statement of them as he
may find himself able to give us. W. Stainton -Moses.
London, May 27th, 1877.
vegetarianism.
Sir,—It is a well-known fact that man as he now exists possesses a
series of teeth which are partly adapted for vegetable, and partly for
animal food.
It is also established, that the oldest paleontological evidences we have
of human teeth (I allude especially to those from Arcis-sur-Aube and
La Naulette) do not indicate any diverse type of dentition from that
which now prevails.
It may be admitted that a very long period of time has elapsed since
the old mammoth-hunters of La Naulette split the bones which they
had previously roasted, to extract the marrow. I leave the amount of
such time to be estimated by others.
If man has, therefore, gone on under like conditions, with mixed food
for such a long period, I would contend that some time at least would be
necessary to produce by selective breeding a race of men with broader
and less cuspidate molar teeth, no canines, and incisors diminished in
size and perhaps in number. Such a race of purely phytophagous
man would require also an important deviation from the present form of
articulation of the condyles of the jaw, in order to be able adequately
to comminute a vegetable diet.
The first step, therefore, for the vegetarians to do should be to pro¬
duce such a man; the second to ascertain what he would like to eat.
  C. Carter Blake.
Sir,—When suffering at the age of three-and-twenty from a weak
and disordered state of digestion of long continuance, and which had
found allopathy impossible and homoeopathy powerless, I turned to
vegetarianism with immediate benefit. I left off all products of the
animal kingdom—(milk I never liked)—took apple sauce with my
bread, or oatmeal porridge without it, and feasted delightfully on
flour-and-water dumplings with fresh fruit stirred up with them. I
drank nothing but water, and little of that, at any time, and I said,
“ The very stones under my feet must feel new life in my tread.”
I pursued this system for over twelve months, but was much disap¬
pointed at last to find my appetite unsatisfied and my oesophagus
resisting the swallowing of the maccaroni. Of course if I could not
put it down in one way, I had to put it down in another, and I re¬
turned with recalcitrant spirit to the carnal habits of my friends. It is
possible that with cooks and circumstances in my favour, a mere
modification of my diet would have sufficed; but my conclusion is the
plain one, that stomachs differ, and necessity knows no law. Vege¬
tarianism is a good thing, and very likely “ most strong constitutions
could be perfectly maintained ” on it, if their owners willed it; but in
the meantime moderation is a still better thing, and though practicable
for all, yet not always observable in the practice or preaching of re¬
formers, who think “ the little leaf is all the forest,” and lose by bigotry
more than they gain by truth. W. W. Fawcett.-
Sir,—Having seen your article upon “ Vegetable Diet,” and the wish
expressed for the brief experiences of those who may have tested the
matter, I may state that about two years back I passed through a serious
illness, the chief symptom of which was gout in the stomach, which
caused indescribable agony for many weeks. No relief was obtainable
from the regular medical profession, but happily it was found at a pri¬
vate circle, where by the aid of spirit-power the disease was drawn en¬
tirely from the system, and, strange as it may appear, from that period I
have experienced an aversion for flesh food to such an extent that I
never touch it for weeks together, and then only in response to the
earnest entreaties of my family, who often express the fear that I shall
go wrong unless recourse is had to the old habit; but if I may speak my
real conviction as to a “ no meat ” diet, it is in my case far preferable in
the present state of my appetite, and is adapted to the needs of my
system. My object in writing is to see if any of your correspondents
can'asslgn a cause for such a change in one’s habits and tastes in so
short a time, and if the reason is to be found in the change the
system underwent when relieved of that dire malady in the way re¬
corded above. James Franklin.-
34, Sutton-street East, Commercial-road,-
London, May 23rd, 1877.
Sir,—In your leading article of last week’s issue, you asked for the
experience of those who had tried to adopt an exclusively vegetariau
263
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 1| 1877.
diet. Allow me to give yonr readers an abbreviated record of my own
experience.
Previous to the time of my resolving to practically prove or disprove
the efficacy of a vegetarian course of living, I had been suffering from
both hereditary and chronic complaints. From my mother’s side I had
inherited something of a plethoric constitution, and frequent effusions
of blood from the nostrils produced in me many unwelcome periods of
physical exhaustion. I had from my earliest remembered times been
habitually subject to constipation of the bowels, and partly, if not
entirely, owing to the nauseous practice of smoking, I had latterly also
fallen a victim to a stomachic disorder, manifesting itself in diarrhoea,
general inertia, and colic complaints. I commenced reformation by
abandoning the pipe, and felt very sanguine of results, but was disap¬
pointed, for I could perceive but a slight change in my somewhat
lamentable condition. I felt that something else must be done, and as
I had lost faith in the supposed recuperative properties of medicines, I
thought I would experimentally put to trial the vegetarian plan.
My first trial, though I persisted in it for a good length of time,
terminated in a failure. Plain peas, beaus, cabbages, and other articles
of the kind, seemed too tasteless to a palate that had long been accus¬
tomed to more highly flavoured foods. Hence, I fell iuto the folly of
making up for quality by quantity, and so, abusing myself, I made a
crab-like progress to the object desired. The conflict between a morbid
desire for animal food and a stubborn denial thereof, had the effect of
gradually reducing me in physical bulk and muscular ability, and at
last I yielded myself to defeat and allowed myself flesh meat in very
stinted quantities. But my old and chief enemy, a determination of
blood to the head, made me halt again and consider which way I should
turn. I had become possessed of a fuller knowledge of vegetarian
cookery by this time, so I bethought myself I would give the system
another and last trial ere I finally followed it or finally abandoned it.
I persevered, and I succeeded, and I have now been absolutely subsisting
on vegetable and farinaceous food for about seven months; I am so
well satisfied with the results that I have no idea of returning to my
first habits of life. I am convinced that failures are often clearly
attributable to ignorance, and that if experimentalists would study and
contrive a variety of flavours in their dishes, they would more often
succeed than they do. The eating of insipid food will not satisfy our
peculiar cravings, and then, though the stomach be filled, yet the
unsatisfied state of the mind will retard those healthful processes which
convert the food into flesh and other life-essentials. Body and mind
must alike be consulted in this matter of food. Since adopting my new
regimen, I imagine I have reaped advantage in many ways. My bowels
and stomach have assumed a more normal and healthy condition, my
mind has become easier, memory more retentive, and certain neuralgic
pains that troubled me in the head and face have almost, if not
entirely, disappeared. W. Gautrey.
Fencehouses, Durham, May 24, 1877.
Sir,—Since the early part of last November flesh food has been
withdrawn from our dietary. My wife, four sons, two daughters, and
myself enjoy excellent health. Our youngest son, [aged three and a
quarter years, cut a gash in his head of one and a quarter inches long
and a quarter deep, and although he broke the place open twice during
the healing, yet not the slightest inflammation or suppuration followed,
a result the surgeon who attended him said was due entirely in his
opinion to the coolness of his blood from the absence of flesh food in his
diet. We have lived upon cereals, fruit, vegetables, eggs, cheese,
butter, milk, fish about once a month, and brown bread made of whole
meal.
We mentioned our diet to Mr. Garth Wilkinson recently. He said:
Remember you have had flesh-eating ancestors; therefore you must
carefully watch results in your family, a caution I thought wise.
C. W. Pearce.
Devon House, Acre-lane, S.W., May 28, 1877.
swedenborgianism v. spiritualism.
Sir,—Mr. Joy’s argument for not accepting the position laid down
by the Rev. J, H. Smithson, in his pamphlet, entitled The Word of God
and Spirit Manifestations, that the Scriptures condemn open intercourse
with spirits as injurious to man’s progress in regeneration, proceeds
upon parallel lines with that urged by Professor Lafikester and Dr.
Donkin as their reason for px-osecuting Dr. Slade.
This is a blunder. The issue raised between Messrs. Smithson and
Joy is sharp and distinct. Mr. Smithson says—“ The Scriptures con¬
demn open intercourse with spirits as injurious to man’s progress in
regeneration.” Mr. Joy says—“The Spiritualists know from personal
and practical experience, and from rational considerations founded upon
the teachings of Spiritualism, that it conduces eminently to man’s
progress in regeneration.”
The authority acknowledged by Mr. Smithson is the Scriptures ; by
Mr. Joy, the teachings of Spiritualism.
Now, whilst it is not denied that Mr. Smithson (or the Sweden-
borgian) is willing to discuss the question upon the merits of the
“Teachings of Spiritualism,” Mr. Joy, speaking as if for a “vast
majority” of Spiritualists, says he will not accept the statements of
Scriptures upon their merits, but only as far as they are endorsed by
(what he understands as) Spiritualism.
Listen to the prosecuting Royal Society men : Dr. Slade, we shall
refuse credence to you, unless your phenomena agree with our science.
Listen to the hon. secretary of the Slade Defence Fund : Mr. Smithson,
I shall refuse credence to your Scriptures unless they agree with my
Spiritualism.
This is a blunder on Mr. Joy’s part. He can do better, and must.
He bas raised an important question to many, and must give such an
answer as a late hon. secretary of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists ought to be able to give.
Let him first show whether the respective authorities really disagree,
or whether the divergence arises from a misunderstanding on the park
of one or both of the two gentlemen, If the authorities disagree,
expose the pretender. Next let him define correctly regeneration, and
then the question at issue can be logically argued, and comfort in
more light be given to many. C. W. Pearce.
Devon House, Acre-lane, London, S.W., May 28, 1877.
TRANCE LECTURES IN OLDHAM.
Sir,—We shall be glad if you will insert in your next issue of The
Spiritualist, the announcement that Mr. Colville, trance medium, of
Brighton, will deliver two addresses in the Temperance Hall, Oldham,
next Sunday, June 3rd, at 2.30 and 6.0 p.m. He will also remain with
us during the following week. Joshua Wood.
6, Fielding-street, Oldham, May 28th, 1877.
Mr. J. J. Morse, trance medium, in reply to the question whether he
is a vegetarian, writes that he is a moderate flesh eater, and enjoys
good health.
Mr. J. J. Morse will lecture at Newcastle-on-Tyne on Sunday next,
at the Freemasons’ (Old) Hall, Newgate-street, in the evening, at 6.30,
subject, £l Elements of Cosmic Philosophy—Spiritualism.” Monday,
June 4th, in the same place, in the evening, at 7.30, he will give a brief
address, closing with the answering of questions. Thursday and Friday,
June 7th and 8th, Belper; Sunday, June 10th, London; Sunday, June
17th, Liverpool; Sunday and Monday, June 24th and 25th, Birming¬
ham; June 26th, 27 th, 28th, and 29th, Wolverhampton.
Spiritualism in Rome.—A correspondent says :—“ In Rome the
priesthood are so against Spiritualism that those who cultivate it are
obliged to keep it very close, and are, generally speaking, what you
might call liberal Catholics. I have met with but one priest to whom I
have dared to mention the subject, and he is decidedly of a liberal turn
of mind. There is a division of parties here, since the occupation of
Victor Emmanuel, some being for the Pope, others for the King ; those
who cling to his Holiness are of the old style of spying, watching,'
arbitrary, Jesuitical priests, and are, with the laity who coincide with
them, called Blacks. Those who are on the King’s, or Government’s,
side are called Whites, and are certainly much the most pleasant people
to deal with, being more ready to receive new ideas, and to tolerate im¬
provements.”
The Promulgation oe New Truths.—Mr. J. T. Markley, of Peter¬
borough, writes :—“ It is well known in press circles that if the news¬
papers ventured to endorse Spiritualistic experiment and discovery, the
world would soon “ believe in ghosts,” without either inquiry, test ex¬
aminations, or cautious, critical reflection, and sham mediums would
abound and prosper, to the speedy degradation of civil society. There¬
fore the press, as the exponent of thoughtful progress, must not too
readily proclaim the divinity of new and exciting beliefs. At the same
time new opinions, based upon earnest discovery, should have fair play.
This is far from being the case in respect to * Spiritualistic ’ inquiry.
With the exception of the Nottingham Daily Journal, the Brighton
Daily News, the Newcastle Chronicle, and a few other equally outspoken,
impartial, and independent organs of the press, all the popular journals
treat seance experiments as a huge, solemn joke. The impartiality of
the Spectator and the Nonconformist newspapers must be here mentioned
in connection with this question of Spiritualism. They have dared to
be Daniels in psychological research, and the records of history will
hereafter refer to the bold foregleamings of the vision and faculty by
which they thus early found a wonderful new force. The Times com¬
pares Spiritualism to the unlettered epidemic delusions of past ages.
Now, it knows better than that. It also knows that its own staff com¬
prises many less eminent literary, scientific, and influential names than
those pursuing this important inquiry, or even than many of the intel¬
lectual and widely famous contributors to your and other Spiritualist
journals.”
The Formation of a Spiritualist Society in Derby.—On the
evening of Thursday, last week, the Spiritualists of Derby held a
meeting convened for the purpose of taking the necessarjr steps to form
a society in that town. Mr. J. J. Morse, of London, was called to the
chair. After a few remarks from the chairman explaining the object of
the meeting, the following resolution was moved by Mr. Mayle, seconded
by Mr. Ward, and unanimously adopted—“Resolved: that in the
opinion of this meeting of the Spiritualists of Derby, the time has
now arrived for us to form a society in this town, and that we now.
proceed to do so.” It was then decided, on the motion of Mr.: Edge,
seconded by Mr. Smith—“ That this society be called ‘ The Derby
Spiritualists’ Association.’ ” An amendment, “ That it be called ‘ The
Derby Psychological Society ’’ was negatived by the casting vote of the
chairman. Mr. Curtiss Bardill, of 2, Derwent-street, Derby, was elected
secretary; and Mr. J. Mayle, of 133, Parliament-street, Derby, was
appointed treasurer. The election of president was deferred. On the
questions of the amount of entrance fee and subscriptions, after con¬
siderable discussion, it was resolved—“ That the entrance fee be Is.,
and the annual subscription 4s., payable quarterly in advance.” The
formation of the working committee was next considered, and it was
voted—“ That it consist of nine members, inclusive of secretary and
treasurer; that it retain office for one year, and be eligible for re-
election on retirement.” . A committee of five was then appointed to
prepare a draft of the rules, and to submit them at the adjourned
meeting to be held at the same place and time on Thursday, June 7th.
A vote of thanks to the chairman brought the proceedings to a close.
264
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 1, 1877.
SPIRIT MUSIC ABOVE THE BEDS OF THE DYING-. j j
All that I have hitherto recorded of my psychological ex- j j
periences (and likewise those of my friends) have been of a j I
violent and annoying nature, which leads me to conclude that j j
the spirits, if such they were, who so uninvitedly visited me, | j
were far from being good or benevolent. And on pursuing i J
many accounts in your journal, and other papers, I deduce, m
perhaps erroneously, that the majority of “ perturbed spirits ” j j
are not those we are likely to meet hereafter on high—no ; |
“ Beautiful spirit with thy hair of light, and dazzling eyes of j||
glory”—could be guilty of acts, which in this world, or the j !
world to come, must be pronounced ungenerous, coarse, and | !
inelegant.* | :j
That, now and then, a good spirit may be permitted to re- j (I
visit its former mundane abode, I believe; and I recall an i j I
instance of this kind which happened some years ago in my j |
own family. I had a brother who lived some eight or nine | |
months only. My mother was excessively fond of the infant, | i
more so than she appeared to have been of any former child, j f
and, indeed of any subsequent one. Some few nights before | I
the poor babe left its clay tenement—occupied for so short a j j
time—sweet, seraphic music “ held sublime communion with j j
the soul.” My mother has frequently described it to me as | |
composed of the sweetest and most powerfully entrancing j j
strains she ever heard. The melody was hymn-like and holy, ! I
such as we might expect from a choir of children.
But now comes the thought “ did these angelic strains pro- i |
ceed from spirits who had ever crowded with the scenes of j j
calamity and affliction on earth; or were they not rather ! !
direct from the inhabitants of that beautiful and unimagin- j j
able ether to which the soul of the poor infant was so soon I |
to proceed |” .1 know not.
To introduce another phase of Spiritualism, how is it, may ! j!
I ask, that we sometimes dip into the future of locality in our i |
dreams ? I mean, how do we visit in advance, perhaps I (]
months or years, spots at which, when we arrive in the flesh, m
we ask ourselves, u How knew I that such a place existed? j]
How is it that I can thread my way unerringly through j j
these streets; and how do I know such a house, or such a j j
monument, when I have never been here before in the course I (i
of my existence ?” j i
This is by no means an uncommon phenomenon, for many j j
are those who have related to me such like dreams ; and my j j
own experience has been great in them. I revive in my j j
memory two towns in particular which I inspected, so to . |||
speak, more than once, before I really visited them, viz., j j
Hastings and Portsmouth. j j
In the former, I was struck, in my dream, by the Albert | j
Memorial, and its surroundings; in the latter, by the |||
numerous draw-bridges, and the soldiers set to watch the i j
forts. Of course, it suggests itself that I must have read or j
heard of them. Possibly with regard to the latter, but of the I j
former I am convinced I knew nothing. Then, there are j i
other places of minor historic importance with scarcely any- i j
thing to describe, save field and trees; and yet I have known i j
the nooks and corners, hills and dales, as well as though I j ;
had traversed them for years. But it is only lately that I j j
have given much thought to the subject—only since I was j j
so forcibly compelled to consider somewhat more than super- \h
ficially the phenomena of Spiritualism. E. G. |||
22nd May, 1877. I (i
Religious Mania.—The Christian at Work, U.S., discourses upon Kj
the case of insanity produced by over excitement consequent upon |>j
attendance at the Moody and Sankey meetings, and protests in a quiet in
way against the unreasonable discussions going on in the secular papers j S j
regarding it. When Whitfield preached his first sermon, it tells us, !) j
fifteen lost their reason. People by the thousands and tens of thousands i (I
attend churches every Sunday, andhear theEverlasting Word preached, m
who yet get nothing of Christ in the heart, and live only for time and sense. |)!
It asks if any insanity could be more pitiful than this, and then it adds : j( j
“ We could wish people would never get unduly excited; but shall we K j
refuse the loaf because of the dry crust ? Because human agencies j) j
are at best imperfect, shall we therefore reject them ? At the first per- (j
formance of the Messiah in London an ardent lover of music fell dead \) j
in the audience through excitement when the Hallelujah Chorus jn
was being sung; is it, therefore, a matter for regret that Handel ever Kj
wrote his sublime oratorio? Human life, and the human reason as well, i; j
hangs on a thread which is easily snapped. The most beneficent j(j
measures are attended in their operation by some measure of injury.” j{ j
* The law appears to be—“The lower the spirit the greater its direct power over common i) j
matter.”—[Ed.] ' hi
“ NOT DEAD, BUT RISEN.”
[Bead by William Lloyd Garrison at the funeral of Nancy W. Jenkins, wife of Charles
E. Jenkins, Nov. 25th, 1876.]
He who died at Azim sends
This to comfort all his friends:
Faithful friends ! It lies, I know,
Pale and white and cold as snow;
And ye say, “ Abdallah’s dead!”
Weeping at the feet and head.
I can see your falling tears,
I can hear your sighs and prayers ;
Yet I smile, and whisper this—
“ I am not the thing you kiss :
Cease your tears, and let it lie;
It was mine, it is not I.”
Sweet friends! what the women lave,
For the last sleep of the grave,
Is a hut which I am quitting,
Is a garment no more fitting,
Is a cage from which, at last,
Like a bird, my soul hath passed.
Love the inmate, not the room—
The wearer, not the garb—the plume
. Of the eagle, not the bars
That kept him from those splendid stars.
Loving friends ! Be wise and dry
Straightway every weeping eye :
What ye lift upon the bier
Is not worth a single tear.
’Tis an empty sea-shell—one
Out of which the pearl has gone :
The shell is broken—it lies there :
The pearl, the all, the soul, is here.
’Tis an earthen jar, whoso lid
Allah sealed, the while it hid
That treasure of his treasury,
A mind that loved him: let it lie!
Let the shard be earth’s once more,
Since the gold is in his store!
Allah glorious 1 Allah good !
Now Thy world is understood ;
Now the long, long wonder ends !
Yet ye weep, my erring friends,
While the man whom ye call dead,
In unspoken bliss, instead,
Lives and loves you; lost, ’tis true,
For the light that shines for you ;
But in the light ye cannot see
Of undisturbed felicity—
In a perfect paradise,
And a life that never dies.
Farewell, friends ! But not farewell;
Where I am, ye too shall dwell.
I am gone before your face,
A moment’s worth, a little space,
When ye come where I have stepped,
Ye will wonder why ye wept;
Ye will know, by true love taught,
That here is all, and there is nought.
Weep awhile, if ye are fain—
Sunshine still must follow rain;
Only not at death—for death,
Now we know, is that first breath
Which our souls draw when we enter
Life, which is of all life centre.
Be ye certain all seems love,
Viewed from Allah’s throne above :
Be ye stout of heart, and come
Bravely onward to your home !
La-il Allah ! Allah la !
Oh Love divine ! Oh love alway!
He who died at Azim gave
• ■ This to those who made his grave.
From the Arabic,
At the last meeting of the Council of the Dalston Association of In¬
quirers into Spiritualism, applications for membership from Messrs. F.
Young, J. C. G-erard, and Dacre Bremer were declined.
A circular has been sent to us, setting forth that Mr. L. Hillyard,
aged sixty-five, was the first to introduce Spiritualism to Northampton
and the surrounding district ten years ago; also that he has cured many
sufferers free of charge by his healing mediumship. As a working shoe
manufacturer he has always led a hard life, and now so much needs
help that some of the local Spiritualists are trying to start him in a
small business which they believe will afterwards be self-supporting.
Good may be done if those who feel so inclined send subscriptions in aid
of this step to Mr. John Letts, 98, Lower Thrift-street, Northampton.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
B. A. (Dub.)—In answer to B. A. (Dub.) I wish to say that I have read 'The
Day after Death, by Figuier, and like the book very much. Although the
writer professes to condemn what he terms “ the so-called Spiritualism ” of
the present age, and speaks in strong words against table-tipping, still I
think the book favours the higher forms of manifestations ; to my mind it
is certainly a Spiritualistic book, and would be read by B. A. (Dub.), or any
other Spiritualist with profit and pleasure,—Silla.
THE SPIRITUALIST
June 1, 1877.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 33, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
‘ who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
' price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spintualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.’
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practicaHy useful work
for inquirers, giving general Information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,:also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OUTER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton- 2 Vols.. crown 8vo., 15s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits iu
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or loss literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcraaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and .the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by WilUam Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens • these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
Inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on. earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are hot so. “ The Prophecy of Y ala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. „
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions," in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid. Z
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumshin of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS*, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 8s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." i
Nature’s Divine Revelations ...
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .7
The Seer. „ Ilf, „ . , . .7
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . • .7
The Thinker. Y. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis .
i Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest . .
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-rccurriug Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .30
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , . . . , .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence . . , ,20
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion • . . . .80
Penetralia; Containing Harmoniad Answers . . .70
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . , .60
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . .' ' .3
Morning Lectures ....... 7
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . ... 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spieituahst Newspaper . . 2 fi
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) , . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 0
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . .15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 fi
Travels of Fah-Hxan and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 618 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.AV Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . id 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 3
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fisko, M.A. .10 0
Awas-I-Hindi; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .20
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . 12 0
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three veils. ... .... 18 C
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . 10 fi
CARTE DE VISITS PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price Orie Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby; 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr, William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.;
AMERICAN PAMPHLETS.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. Is.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell, is. fid.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam,
is.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase, is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning, fid.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R T.
Halloek. Soiled, Is.
ESSAYS, MORAL, SPIRITUAL AND DIVINE, by
Thomas R. Hazard. Parts 2 and 3, fid. each.
THE LIFE OF MARY WHITTEY, the Catholic
Medium, by A. B. Dorman, of Connecticut, is.
THE VOICE OF PRAYER, a Poem by W. S. Barlow.
fid.
NEW TESTAMENT MIRACLES AND MODERN
MIRACLES COMPARED, by J. H. Fowler. 2s.
PHILOSOPHY OF SPECIAL PROVIDENCES, A
Vision, by Andrew Jackson Davis. In paper wrapper, is.
By Royal Letters Patent
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambrio. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. fid. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holhorn,
London, W.C.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
HATCHARD’S DUPLEX FUNERAL CARS
(Used open or closed), Silver-mounted, Violet or Oak Panels,
Plated Harness, &o.
Inventors, Patentees and Builders,
S. HATCHARD & CO.,
FUNERAL FURNISHERS, &0.
Chief Office:—
47, CRAWFORD ST., BRYANSTON SQ., W.
Funerals conducted in accordance with the views of Spirit¬
ualists. Coloured Palls supplied. Personal attendance at any
address on receipt of letter or telegram.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST
June 1, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST FUND. . Jjj
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION FOR 1877 AND 1878.
The great question of the day.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to he left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PRINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
INQUESTS. —A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of END’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
invaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
hlood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
THE REALITY. OF SPIRIT
PROVED FROM RECORDS AND WORKS ON THE
SUBJECT.
BY “ M.A.'( (OXON.).” :
Introductory Chapter.—The general aspect of the subject:
its many-sidedness. Certain broad views to be more par¬
ticularly illustrated in subsequent sections. The claims and
present position of Spiritualism.
SECTION I.
Historical.—A retrospect of the history of the subjpct, illus¬
trated from Epes Sargent's Planchette (reviewed), Mrs.
Hardinge Britten's History of American Spiritualism,
Wallace’s Miracles and Modern Spiritualism. Ho witt’s
History of the Supernatural, Shorter’s Two Worlds, Judge
Edmond s Tracts.
SECTION IT.
Scientific.—Dealing with some aspects of the phenomena of
Spiritualism in reference to theories and explanations that
have been given. Hudson Tuttle’s Arcana of Spiritualism,
(reviewed). Hare’s Spiritualism Scientifically Explained,
Crooke's Researches, De. Morgan’s From Matter to Spirit.
SECTION III.
Phenomenal.—Dealing with published accounts of form-
manifestation, especially from Olcott’s People from the
Other World (reviewed), Epes Sargent’s Proof Palpable of
Immortality, Wolfe’s Startling Facts in Modern Spirit¬
ualism.
SECTION IV.
Religious.—Showing the religious side of the subject as
brought out in Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modern
Spiritualism (reviewed), Dale Owen’s Address to the Clergy
in his Debateable Land, S. C. Hall's Use of Spiritualism.
SECTION V.
Clairvoyance.—Dealing with the inherent powers of the
incarnate human spirit, especially that of clear-seeing or
superseusuous perception, as exemplified in simple dear-
sight or psychometrioally in- Denton’s Soul of Things, and
Andrew J. Davis’s Magic Staff (reviewed), Cahagnet’s
Arcana de la vie lutiire.
SECTION VI.
Occultism.—Dealing further with certain occult powers of
the human spirit, and with phenomena attributable to them,
as shown in Art-Magic, Ghost-Land (reviewed), and further
illustrated by records of phenomena hitherto unpublished.
Le Comte de Bullet
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq. .
Martin R. Smith, Esq.....
Alexander Tod, Esq, 
Charles Blackburn, Esq. ,
Alexander Calder, Esq....
N. F. Da we, Esq  
G. O. Joad, Esq 
The Hon. A. Aksakof ...,
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D 
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.,
M. R. I 
James Mylne, Esq 
X.     
B   
C. T.     
George Sutherland, Esq 
T. E. Partridge; Esq ...-; 
Thomas Grant, Esq 
The Countess of Caithness 
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun 
A Friend 
B .' 
Mrs. E. Dixon 
The Rev. W. Whitear  
Dr. Baikie   
Miss Whitear  
Hensleigh Wedgwood. Esq., M.R.I..
Mrs. Lowe '   
S. J. H     
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S 
Ennesfallen   
W. C. Piekersgill, Esq 
W   
G. V. .    
S. T. Speer, Esq., M.D.......:..
W. M. Buchanan, Esq., M.D.
A. Vaeher, Esq 
Colonel Oleoit 
The Baroness von Vay 
George Lee, Esq  
G. R. Tapp, Esq 
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, FeverLhness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its. medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
must be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to he an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and MR.C.S., L A.C., London, writes :—
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being tbe only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixtj-three, I
have not the least doubt it will he very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not he limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.’,’—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say : “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers whoget it almost al«aj srecommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says be never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Ayent for Paris—PHARMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX.
THE TRANS-CORPOBEtL ACTION OF SPIRIT,
Especially during Sleep: Immediately Before, and at
the Time of Deaih: and under some Strong Passion
or Emotion.
[This will form a considerable section, distinct from the rest
of the book: and will include a large number of facts, new
and old, arranged on the principle of reference to their deter¬
mining cause, where such can he ascertained ]
NOTE.—The above scheme Of the book of essays and
reviews previously announced, is a diaft only, subject to any
alterations that may be deemed desirable. It is published
in compliance with a request from many sources for informa¬
tion as to the title and scope of the work. The title now
afiSxed explains what is. intended. The scope of the work is
to notice some aspects of Spiritualism as they are presented in
the works of other authors; and so to point out and summarise
the best books cn the subject.
Though the plan may be modified, it will not bo substan¬
tially changed.
f])The sections which deal with the phenomenal and religious
aspects will be so arranged as not to trench on the works
announced for future publication—Spirit Teachings and
Researches in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism.
M. A. OXON.
The volume will be published at 10s. The names of sub¬
scribers should be sent to F. Percival, 15, Conduit-street, W.
London, May, 1877.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, hut when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may he obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage?”- Should three signals he given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then he told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to he related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should he put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of hvtmanity.
£ s. d.
50 .0 0
20 0 0
20 0 0
15 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
6 6 0
5 5 0
5 5 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
3 0 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 2 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
2 0 0
1 10 0
110
110
Mrs. Maltby    110
B. W. Pycock, Esq      110
Mrs. Nosworthy     110
O. T. Hook, Esq.   .'  110
Major Menars    110
A. Glen dinning, Esq    110
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S  110
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.TeLE  110
Mrs; Hennings       1 1 0
Dr. George WyId       110
Miss Allen....     110
W P. Adshead, Esq ...'.      110
John Mould, Esq.   110
J. P. Turner, Esq       110
J. T. Dodd, Esq  110
Mrs. Jeffreys   :.....  110
J. O. Eno        110
Miss Douglas     10 0
John Scott, Esq  ,....   10 0
J. C. Ferguson, Esq.....'    10 0
A. O. Swinton, Esq  10 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     10 0
Mrs. Tyndall         10 0
Lieut.-OoL Jacoby     10 0
John Chapman, Esq  10 0
G. F. Green, Esq  0 10 6
Mrs. E. K. Beeby   0 10 6
R. Catling    0 10 C
E. R.       0 10 6
J. Hare, Esq  0 10 0
M. J.Walhouse, Esq.....  0 10 0
A Friend      0 10 0
A Friend’      0 10 0
T. H  0 10 0
Miss Pearee     0 5 0
J. T. M      0 5 0
Subscriptions to this Fund should he remitted to W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
THE FOOD THAT WE LIVE ON. In¬
structive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Js. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable of Sir Charles
Isham, Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. ALLEN, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
THE RELIGION OF JESUS compared with.
THE CHRISTIANITY OF TO-DAY. By Frederick
A. Binney)
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
T3RIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob-
.1 P tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr.
Elmer, St. James's-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George's-
road.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON,; F.R.S,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
FEAR’S TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufac'ure, ard
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to tbt slifo.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pear'S, 9i, Great Russell-street, London.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.Ot >
