AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[EEGHSTEEED FOB TRANSMISSION ABKOADJ
No. 115.—(Vol. Y.—No. 19.) LONDON: NOVEMBER 6, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
Contents*
222
The Ultimate Constitution of Matter    ... ...    ...
Spirit Teachings. No. XXII. Religious Teaching of Spiritualism
Professor Tyndall on Science and Religion   ...    
Confessions of Ex-Spiritualists        
Spiritualism in Liverpool    |    
A Remarkable Seance in London:—Materialised Spirit Hands—
Personal Identity of the Spirits of the Departed—Large and Varied
Spirit Lights ... ...    ... ...
The Doctrine of Immortality among the Ancient Egyptians. No. II. ... 223
Great Disturbance at Gerald Massey’s Lecture at Greenwich:—
Theories of Man's Origin—Results of Mr. Massey’s Bibliographic
Researches—What are the Characteristics of Spiritualists ?  224
Speculations on the Philosophy of .Existence. By Count de Medina
Pomar   ... ...      ...  225
Correspondence:—^Materialised Spirits in Bishop Auckland, 227; Spirit-
• ualism and Theology     ... ...  228
Spiritualism Lawful and Necessary   " 228
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act, of Parliament, 25 26 Viet, cap. 89.)
42, POULTRY (CORNER OF OLD JEWRY), LONDON.
SIMPLE FORM OF ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
if preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
Trustees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray, Bart., James. White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murray, Bart. (Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
William Berry, Esq., John Brown, Esq., Courtenay Clarke, Esq., Arthur
lago, Esq., Lord Frederick H. Kerr, M. E. Marsden, E#t*_, it. ii. Martin,
Esq., M.A., F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White, Esq.,
Major J. C. Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss.
Auditors.—Robert Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffin, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffin).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.R.S.
CLASS.
• A. B ” Insuring a sum
if Killed, and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
“ A.’’ Death only.
‘B.’’ Weekly Allow¬
ance only.
aw
£
1000
500
250
100
1000
500
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total
Disable¬
ment.
£ s. d.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
10 0
6 0 0
3 0 0
Partial
Disable¬
ment.
£ s.d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
1 10 0
0 IS 0
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
£ s. d.
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
110
0 11 6
2 2 0
13 0
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 60
0 11 6
0 6 6
12 6
0 12 6-
Paymt
within
Two Yrs
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
12 6
0 12 6
A&ENT—MR. THOMAS BLYTON,
12, St, Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on he shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
beral discount for cash.
MRS. LAW’S LECTURE ON SPIRITUALISM, Oct.
25, in the Hall of Science, will be replied to by Mr. E. Bullock, in
theGpswell Hall, 86, Gos well-road, on Thursday evening, Nov. 12th. Doors
open at 7. Commence at 8 o’clock. Discussion invited. Admission'free.
BEYERIDGrE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
‘ Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
SPIRITUALISTS.
OF
The British National association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches; by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended j;o include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.-
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon
application.
N.B.—THE SUBSCRIPTION FOR THE CURRENT YEAR, 1874, WILL NOT BE
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOINING AFTER THIS DATE.
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
BY MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
There will be 36 Lectures, delivered on Sunday Evenings, commencing
October 25th, and ending in June next, divided into courses of
Twelve Lectures,
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-Street, Regent-street, London. Doors open at 6.30;
Commence at 7 p.m.
Committee.
A lexander Calder, Esq., The Elms, Putnev-hill, S.W.—Chairman.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambec^, Portman-square, W.; Dr.
Gully, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.: Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.; Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands. Wimbledon Common,
S.W.; Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.; G. N. Strawbridge,
Esq., and Mrs. Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s Inn-square, W.C.
(Hon. Secretary and Treasurer.)
A subscriber of £5 will be entitled for the whole series to a reserved
seat for himself and friend.
Tickets to admit one person for a course of 12 lectures only, will be
issued at 24s., and 12s. each.
There will be a limited number of 6d. seats.
Tickets to be obtained of the Treasurer, Mr. Webster Glynes, 4, Gray’s
inn-square, on application enclosing post office order.
Single Tickets sold at the doors.
Persons desirous of obtaining seats are requested to come early.
The hymns used in the service will be taken from the “ Spiritual Lyre,"
sold at the doors,    
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 fill 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of Tlie Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
LE MESS AUER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cath4drale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Sodete Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M, Leymarie.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 6, 1874,
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Beakers fok 1874.
President.—James "Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H, J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lament, Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. Q-. Wharmby, Mr. Dins dale, Mr. R. Casson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Riece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
HE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as frarn time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged. English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.”—Saturday Remew.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig
niflcance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubneb, & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalstbn, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; .10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Eon. Secretary.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8,30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
O THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
er Spiritualists. By Alqernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITDALISM.
6, blandford-street, baker-street, w.
A discussion will take place at above address as follows
Wednesday, Nov. llth.—“Atheism, its influence on Society.” Opened by
Mr. Cain. . '
November, Wth.—“The Theological Devil.” Opened by Mr. Freehold.
November, 25th.—“ Readings from the Poets, &c., &c.”
December, 2nd.—“Astrology—Is it true?” Opened by Mr. T. W.
Shearing.
December, 9ith.—“Protestantism and Prostitution.” Opened by Mr. G.
F. Tilby.
Charles Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d, by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown Svo., price 2s.
YMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,’’ &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC - SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with ah introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
mHIS SOCIETY will hold its next SOCIAL MONTHLY
X MEETING at above address, ©n MONDAY, NOVEMBER 9th, when
it is hoped every member will be present. Investigators and friends
desirous of joining the Association,|are invited to attend. Subscription, Is.
per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works on Spiritualism, &c.,
are lent to read.
Two weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday and Friday
evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—See Advertisement,
v A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and precious truths of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King William-street, Strand.
Crown Svo. 3s. 6d., or with gilt edges 4s.
THE ANGELS.
contents.
I.—What are Angels ? II.—The Origin of Angels, III.—Seership, IV.—
The Intermediate State. V.—Will the natural body rise ? VI.—What do the
Angels do? (1). For men on earth; (2) For spirits in the world of spirits;
(3) In Heaven.
James Speirs, 36, Bloomshury-street, London.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
edited by George sexton, ji.a., l.l.d.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian Academy of Science, Ac
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Reports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Reviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c.
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russbll-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world, Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
“PINE’S SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.”
THIS is so popular that orders are coming in rapidly
from all parts of the Queendom. So send your orders as soon as
possible, accompanied with a P. O. order, as follows:—For No. 1, £2 7s. 6d,
No. 2, £1 12s. 6d; No. 3, 17s. 6d.; No. 4, 10s.; addressed to CLEMENT
PINE, Taunton-road, Bridgwater.
N.B.—The above prices include a box (2s. 6d.) in which are full instruc¬
tions, returnable as therein directed, excepting the No. 4. All orders will
be executed in rotation as promptly as possible.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ TheBanner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass.U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Tnree Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
HENRY B. BUS H,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for Zite/SptrtfwaMsf Newspaper.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6th, 1874.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS:—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among tho^e whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up whqn read, but preserved for binding.
Ookrespondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, II, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papersunao-
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of u The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bruuswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling,
JpiEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—l, Fitzroy-square, W.
THE ULTIMATE CONSTITUTION OF MATTER.
Theologians and trance mediums frequently speak
about atoms of matter, because the experimental phi¬
losopher, in tracing his knowledge to its roots, generally
assumes matter to be built up of ultimate atoms, which
are believed to be in a state of incessant- motion. For
instance, if an iron bar be cut into small pieces, and
these’ again into pieces still smaller, and so on, if it
were possible, ad infinitum, it is supposed that at last
an indivisible fragment of matter would remain, in the
shape of an ultimate atom of iron. These atoms of the
iron bar are supposed to be in a state of incessant
motion, because the bar grows longer the more it is
heated, consequently the atoms at the extreme ends of
the bar are measurably further from each other when
the iron is hot than when it is cold, and as all sub¬
stances change their volume with changes of tempera¬
ture, and small changes of temperature are constantly
taking place, it is only reasonable to infer that the
atoms are in a state of incessant motion. The whole
world is built up of less than a hundred chemical ele¬
ments, which, by combining in various proportions,
form the infinity of solids, liquids, and gases to be found
upon the globe. When the atoms of two or more ele¬
mentary substances unite to form a compound, such as
iron and oxygen to form oxide of iron, or iron rust, the
group of atoms is called molecule, and each molecule is
supposed to have a vibration of its own. Let three
oranges be tied at the end of a string and possess a
vibratory motion between themselves, the vibrations
would roughly correspond to atomic motion; then set
the moving oranges swinging at the end of the string,
the additional motion of the whole group gives a rough
idea of what is meant by molecular vibration.
The attention of thinking people is much directed to
atomic motion because there the knowledge of the phy¬
sical philosopher comes to an end, and both theologians
and men of science wish to know the nature of the
atoms, also why they flow to their proper places in
organised structures, so as to build up creations replete
with life and beauty. Those physical philosophers who
are thorough materialists call in the play of polar forces
to their aid. Thus, break an iron magnet into two
pieces, two smaller magnets are made, each having a
north and south pole.; continue the breakage, each
fragment is still a magnet with a north and a south pole;
then in imagination continue the breakage into infinitely
smaller fragments than is practically possible, the ultimate
atom of iron is at last reached, endowed with a polarity
which tends to induce the atom to place itself in a par¬
ticular position both in relation to its neighbouring
atoms, and to the magnetic north pole of the earth.
Hence, when atoms slowly deposit themselves from a
supersaturated liquid, they are supposed to build up
the resulting beautiful crystals in consequence of the
influence of polar forces, and some materialists will
argue that the more complicated human body is built
up in obedience to the laws of crystallisation.
218 THE SPIKITUALIST. Nov. 6, 1874.
Physical science can give no explanation of the
method whereby intelligence is connected with and
governs the groups of molecules which form the human
body. Theologians can give plenty of explanations all
differing from each other, and none of them perhaps
based upon fact, or reducible to the test of experiment.
Philosophers work hard to accumulate masses of
reliable facts, then draw from them a very few theories
which cannot be denied, and are always provable to
doubters by mathematics or by experiment, so as to be
beyond question. Theologians build up airy specula¬
tions, which they call theories, out of their own brains,
which is easy and idle work ; such speculations usually
pave the way to no new discoveries, but can be proved
to be wrong by the discoveries of the past; thus they
put Galileo in the. Inquisition for proving that the
earth moved round the sun, they roasted an Italian
astronomer for the same crime, and what the ancient
Jews would have done to a man who denied their belief
that the earth was a flat plain is an open question.
Thus the theories of men of science are few, and of
one nature, whilst what the general public call theories
are many, and of another nature. The theories of
men of science are so firm that they frequently make
known what will be the result of new experiments
before those experiments are made; idle speculations,
on the other hand, shrink from the test of experiment.
In the scientific world men who build up speculations,
and do little experimental work, have been found to do
more harm than good, consequently have not a good
standing among their fellows, because if a plausible
hypothesis supported by a few facts is mooted, it is
difficult to get it out of men’s heads afterwards, so is a
mental plant of evil growth; for instance, ancient
astronomers had a theory which accounted very well
for the movements of the heavenly bodies, on the
assumption that the earth was fixed and immovable, so
experimental science had hard work in later years
to pull this idea up by the roots.
As yet we do not know of any new revelation in
physics having been made through the lips of trance
mediums, whilst much which falls from their lips about
the material universe can be proved to be wrong.
Spirits have undoubtedly a difficulty in communicating
through mediums by mesmeric process, and it may be
that spirits are so divorced from the material universe,
that they do not know so much about it as mortals; in
short, perhaps they know little more about our world
than we do about theirs. If spirits questioned mortals
at seances about the nature of the spirit world, the
listeners would think them irrational, and that the
spirits were in the best position themselves to solve
their own questions.
Sometimes in trance addresses and in sermons, the
words “ atoms,” “ molecules,” and “ force,” are mixed
up in dreamy confusion as convertible terms, and
distinct meanings are not attached to particular words,
as they are in science and in all\clear thought. Of
atoms and molecules we have already spoken. In the
scientific world the nature of force is admitted to be
totally unknown, consequently the various forces are
definable only by their effects. Cohesive force is that
which holds the atoms of bodies together; it acts only
at small distances; it is that force which resists when
an attempt is made to break a bar of iron. Adhesive
force acts also only at small distances ; it is that force
which causes two smooth flat surfaces to adhere to each
other to a certain extent. The force of gravitation acts
between the atoms of matter, but at great distances as
well as small ones. Magnetic force is that which causes
suspended bars of the metals iron, nickel, and cobalt to
point to the north.
Since the scientific world will be long in coming to
Spiritualism, it would be well if Spiritualists as a body
would study and extract what is good in science. The
result would be a higher standard of education, a
deeper and clearer knowledge of what is actually known
about the imponderable forces of nature, whilst in
writing and in public speaking clearer ideas and terms
would be substituted for hazy, foggy utterances. If
the Royal Institution will not come to Spiritualists, let
Spiritualists go in greater numbers than at present to
the Royal Institution, or let us set up a Royal Institu¬
tion of our own when the National Association furnishes
us with the hall which is now so much talked about;
perhaps it will wake up some of the philosophers who
know all the laws of nature, and what facts of nature
are to be separated from others which they do not
desire to investigate, as if they thought that the
Almighty had no right to introduce them into the
universe without their consent.
When the doctrine of Allan Kardec comes up for
consideration in this country, we intend, in free and
fair discussion, to deal with it as scientific men deal
with all other new subjects, by calling upon its sup¬
porters for their facts, and examining whether the facts
are numerous and firm before accepting any of the
conclusions; it will also be necessary to examine
whether other conclusions are deducible from the facts
admitted on all sides to be such. In one of Professor
Tyndall’s lectures, an hour long, he expends about
fifty-five minutes in showing experimental facts, and
about five minutes in stating conclusions from those
facts which it is impossible to dispute; unscientific
people reverse the process by expending fifty-five
minutes or pages of print in assertion or speculation,
and five minutes or pages in setting forth a meagre
show of reliable or unreliable facts in support thereof.
When any man has a new and true theory connected
with physics, it ought to give him the power of de¬
vising new experiments to prove the same, and to
produce results never before seen by philosophers. If
the doctrine of Allan Kardec is not founded on a
large array of facts, not explainable on any other
hypothesis, it would appear to be a new theological
doctrine, embraced by individuals who have mediums
in their midst, and the doctrine will be outside the
domain of philosophy until evidence is forthcoming to
settle the question one way or the other.
The Royal Institution session will begin directly after
Christmas.
A meeting of the St. John’s Association of Spiritualists,
Clerkenwell, will be held in a day or two, and will consider the
subject of national organisation.
Last Monday we received a letter from the Rev. J.
Tyerman, of Melbourne, in the course of which he states that
Dr. Richardson has arrived there safely.
The article in The Spiritualist by Prince Wittgenstein
on “ Spiritual Manifestations produced by a Sleeping Lady,”
has been republished in the Religio-Philosophical Journal,
Chicago, U.S.
The San Francisco Chronicle gives a sign of the times
as follows:—“ The tendency of modern thought is to reverence
the ,truth, to follow it fearlessly wherever it may lead; to
believe that it is better and more beneficial than anything else
in the world, and to accept it frankly and honestly when
clearly manifested, whatever pleasing illusions it may destroy
and whatever venerated idols it may dethrone.”
Nov. 6, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
219
SPIRIT TEACHINGS*
NO. XXII.
We have answered so much, of your objection as
relates to the general outcome of the movement at large.
We have shown you that deep down below the surface
there is a something which does not meet the eye. As
in the days of the development of the knowledge of God,
in whatever age it may occur, there are many silent
devotees of whom the world knows little, who grow
steadily up to more and more perfect knowledge, so we
have told you it is now. Many there are, very many,
who deplore the unlicensed vagaries which shock and
distress them, hut which have no power to alter or
diminish the faith which is founded on experience.
We would further point out to you that all our
intercourse with the material plane is governed by laws
which your science has not yet defined. Neither we
nor you know as yet many of the causes which inter¬
fere with our power. We are not able to lay down
laws for your guidance, scarce even for our own. With
you the vast importance of the subject is little appre¬
ciated even by those who interest themselves in our
work. In many cases sentiments of mere curiosity
predominate. With some, even lower motives obtain.
No proper care is taken of our mediums. The instru¬
ment is out of tune, unstrung, or overworked. The
atmospheric conditions vary. We know not always
how to meet the various effects so caused. Circles are
not properly composed; and many things combine to
make it impossible that phenomena should always be
similar in their nature, or be evoked with precise regu¬
larity.
This will account for much of the erratic character
of the phenomena, as well as for the influence which is
exercised over the curious who obtrude themselves
perpetually into communion with the spheres, and
attract spirits congenial to themselves. Much might
fitly be said on this topic, but other matters press.
What has been hinted may suggest to you another
reason for dealing mercifully in your estimate of the
vagaries of some circles. Nothing now is said of those
into which deceit is admitted. There none but the most
undeveloped spirits enter, and all is untrustworthy
and repellent.
You can do much to aid us. You may help us to
crush out idle curiosity and deceit. You know well how,
in our own circle, the manifestations have gradually
developed as you have followed our advice. You may
say to others that they should use the same means.
The cloud will in time be blown away. Meantime, the
causes which produce it are at least as much in your
hands as in ours.
RELIGIOUS TEACHING OE SPIRITUALISM.
You question whether the tendency of our teaching be
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr, Stanhope T.' Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-read, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does notwish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “ spirit teachings ” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in ail cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
not Deism, or pure Theism, or even Atheism. It is
indicative of the ignorance which obtains among you,
that one usually accurate in thought and well-informed
should class Theism with Atheism. We know nothing
of that cheerless, futile nonsense which denies the ex¬
istence of a God whose acts are palpable to all, even
to the meanest comprehension amongst the most debased
of His creatures. Were it not that we know how man
can blind himself, we should refuse to believe that any
one could so blunt his senses.
Doubtless we teach that there is one Supreme Being
over all: one who is not manifested as man has fancied,
but who has always announced to His creatures from
time to time such facts about Himself as they are able
to comprehend; or, more strictly, has enabled them to
develope in their minds truer views of Himself and of
His dealings. We tell you, as Jesus told His followers,
of a loving, holy, pure God, who guides and governs
the universe; who is no impersonal conception of the
human mind, but a real spiritual Father; who is no
embodiment or personification of a force, but a really-
existent Being, albeit known to you only by His opera¬
tions, and through your conceptions of His nature and
attributes. This is what we have spoken to you,
eradicating, so far as we have been able, that which in
your mind seemed to us to be dishonouring to the All-
Wise Father, but leaving undisturbed other theological
fancies which are not of special import.
If you say that our teaching tends to show that
there is no such thing as absolute truth in such matters,
we can but express our thankfulness that we have so
far made ourselves intelligible. No doubt there is for
you, in your present imperfect state, no such thing as
absolute truth, as there is no such thing as absolute
perfection. You surely do not expect that your eye
can gaze undimmed into mysteries which dazzle the
vision of the highest intelligences. Surely you do not
hope that your circumscribed mind can grasp the
Infinite and Incomprehensible; that which to us in
remotest cycles shall still remain a subject of adoring
wonder. The suggestion can but be born of ignorance
caused by the imperfect state of development in which
you now live. For you truth must be variable, not to
be grasped in its entirety, not to be viewed in minute
detail, but seen only in shadowy outline through an
encircling veil. We do not even pretend that we re¬
veal to you absolute truth, seeing that we ourselves are
yet ignorant, longing to dive deeper into much that is
still mysterious. We do but give you such aid as we
are permitted in shadowing forth for yourself concep¬
tions of the Supreme, which are less widely removed
from truth than those which have passed current among
you as the immediate revelation of the Most High.
We have succeeded in evolving a system of theology
which you admit to be coherent, beautiful, and elevated,
and which is acceptable to your mind. We have not
ventured to do more. We have shown you a God who
commands your adoration and respect. We have dis¬
played to you a rational and comprehensible view of
your duty to Him, to mankind, and to your own self;
and we have established our moral code not by the
persuasive inducements of a heaven and hell such as
you are wont to hear of, but by arguments not less
persuasive, by inducements which do not come home
less forcibly to the mind.
To say that we teach a motiveless religion is surely
the strangest misconception. What! is it nothing
that we teach you that each act in this, the seed-time
220
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 6, 1874.
of your life, will bear its own fruit; that the results
of conscious and deliberate sin must be remedied in
sorrow and shame at the cost of painful toil in far
distant ages ; that the erring spirit must gather up the
tangled thread and unravel the evil of which it was
long ages ago the perpetrator ?
Is it nothing that we tell you that words and deeds
are as the pebble thrown into the stream which causes
an ever-widening ripple, ceaselessly enlarging in its
effects; and that for such influence you are accountable;
that every word, every act, is of incalculable im¬
port in its results and influence; that the good which
your influence produces is to you a source of gratifica¬
tion hereafter, while of the ill you must view the baleful
effects in agony and remorse ?
Is it nothing that we tell you that reward and
punishment are not delayed till a far-off day faintly
imagined, after a period of torpor, almost of death, but
are instant, immediate, supervening upon sin by the
action of an invariable law, and acting ceaselessly until
the cause which produced it is removed ?
Is this no incentive to a life of sanctity and holiness ?
Which, say you, is the most potent incentive to a holy
life of progress : that creed which we have indicated ?
or that which teaches that a man may live as seems to him
good, may wrong his neighbours, insult his God, and
debase his own spirit, may break all laws divine and
human, may be loathsome in his moral nature, a blot
on the name of man, and then, by a fanatical cry, by a
fancied faith, by a momentary operation of the mind,
may be fitted to enter into a dreamy heaven, where his
sole joy is to be that which his nature would view with
distaste, but which, now that the magic change has been
effected, is to become the congenial occupation of
eternity ? Which faith will move the degraded most ?
To tell him that for each sin, discovered or undiscovered
by his fellow, he will have to repent; that each must
be remedied, not by another, but by himself; and that
no happiness is possible for him till he grows a purer,
better, truer man? or, to tell him that, do what he
will, heaven is open to the vilest reprobate, and that a
dying cry when fainting nature is wrung with agony,
can magically change his spirit, and seal it, after a
distant judgment, pure and good, in the immediate
presence of his God, in a heaven where his unvarying
occupation will be that which he would now regard as
most insipid and undesirable ?
We know and you know which faith is most likely to
appeal to a man’s reason and judgment; which would
be the strongest deterrent from sin; which would keep
a wanderer in the paths of rectitude most surely. And
yet you say that we preach a vague religion in place of
a definite; a colourless gospel in place of one backed by a
definite system of reward and punishment. Nay, nay.
We are they who preach a definite, intelligible, clear
system of reward and punishment, but in doing so w,e
do not feign a fabled heaven, a brutal hell, and a
human God. Ye are they who relegate to a far off
speck the day of retribution, and encourage the vilest
to believe that he may enter into the very presence of
the Most High sometime, somewhere, somehow, if he
will only assent to statements which he does not under¬
stand, which he does not believe, and in the truth of
which he feels no sort of real interest.
We boldly assert that we teach a faith which is more
calculated to deter from open sin than any yet pro¬
pounded for man’s acceptance; one that holds out to
him more rational hopes for his hereafter, one that is to
him more real, more comprehensible than any which
has yet been put before him. That faith, we say again,
is Divine. It comes to you as the revelation of God.
We do not expect or wish that it should become current
among men until they are fitted to receive it. Dor
that time we wait in patient prayer. When it does
spread among men and they can yield its precepts an
intelligent obedience, we do not hesitate to say that
man will sin less in hope of a cheap salvation; that
he will be guided by a more intelligent and intelligible
future; that he will need fewer coercive regulations,
fewer punishments by human law, and that the motive¬
spring within him will be found to be not less forcible
and enduring than that debased system of heavenly
inducements and hellish deterrents which can stand no
serious probing, and which, when once rationally ex¬
amined, ceases to allure or to deter, and crumbles into
dust, baseless, irrational, and absurd.
So far we have replied to your objections. More
remains, but for the present we leave you to ponder
what we say. + I. S. D.
PROFESSOR TYNDALL ON SCIENCE AND
RELIGION.
On Wednesday evening, last week, Professor Tyndall
delivered the first of a series of six science lectures to the
people of the Free Trade Hall, Manchester. The subject was
“ Crystalline and Molecular Forces.” Professor Tyndall
introduced some beautiful experiments showing the structural
power of molecular forces. At the conclusion of one of the
experiments he said:—Perhaps I may have expressed myself
too strongly in calling this beautiful experiment astonishing ;
and I must say, although I have seen it, to speak moderately,
without [feelings of astonishment (Cheers), depend upon it,
that the revelations of science are not in the least degree
calculated to lessen our feelings of surprise. We are sur¬
rounded by wonders and mysteries everywhere. I have some¬
times—not sometimes, but often—in the spring-time watched
the advance of the sprouting leaves, and of the grass, and of
the flowers, and observed the general joy of opening life in
nature, and I have asked myself this question:—“ Can it be
that there is no being or thing in nature that knows more
about these things than I do ? Do I in my ignorance repre¬
sent the highest knowledge of these things existing in this
universe?” Ladies and gentlemen, the man who puts that
question fairly to himself, if he be not a shallow man, if he be
a man capable of being penetrated by profound thought,
will never answer the question by professing that creed
of atheism which has been so lightly attributed to me. (Loud
cheers, which were again and again renewed.) I will only
detain you one moment more. Everywhere throughout our
planet we notice this tendency of the ultimate particles of matter
to run into symmetric forms. The very molecular forces
appear inspired with a desire for union and growth, and the
question of questions at the present day is—and it is one I
fear which will not be solved in our day, but will continue to
agitate and occupy thinking minds after we have departed—
this question of questions is, how far does this wondrous dis¬
play of molecular force extend ? Does it give us movement of
the sap of trees ? I reply with confidence, assuredly it does.
Does it give us the beating of our own breasts, the warmth of
our own bodies, the circulation of our blood, and all that
thereon depends ? This is a point on which I offer no opinion
to-night. I have brought you to the edge of a battle-field into
which I don’t intend to enter, and from which I have barely
escaped, somewhat bespattered and begrimed, but without much
loss of head or hope. (Cheers.) It now only remains for me
not to enter this battle-field, but to point out to you the posi¬
tion of the contending hosts. You can pass on by almost
imperceptible gradations from this wonderful display of force
that I have been able to make manifest to your eyes here to¬
night, to the lowest forms of vegetable life; you pass from
them to other forms higher, and so up to the highest. I have
spoken of contending hosts, and their position is this: one
class of thinkers supposes that all these actions of crystals
that you have seen formed before you, that the passage from
the crystalline action to the lowest forms of vegetable life, and
from them to higher forms still foreign to the highest—I say
Nov. 6, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
221
one class of thinkers regards this as the growth of a single
natural process; they grasp, as it were, this act of life, this
development of life, as an indissolubly connected whole—one
great organic growth from the beginning. Others, again, say
that it is not possible to pass from the inorganic, as we are
pleased to call it—for, remember it is only human language we
can use—to the organic without a distinct creative act, and so
with regard to the forms that we observe not only in the fossil
world. These forms, it is alleged or considered, also require for
their introduction special creative acts. Here then are two per¬
fectly distinct positions; and if you look abroad, you will find
men of equal earnestness, equal intelligence, ranging themselves
on two opposite sides in relation to this question : which are
right and which are wrong, is, I submit, a question for grave
consideration, and not for abuse and hard names. (Cheers.) I
am afraid that many of the fears that are now entertained on
these subjects really have their roots in a kind of scepticism.
It is not always those who are charged with scepticism that are
the real sceptics—(“ Hear, hear,” and cheers)—and I confess
it is a matter of some grief tome to see able, useful, and coura¬
geous men running to and fro upon the earth wringing their
hands over the threatened destruction of their ideals. I would
exhort them to cast out scepticism, for this fear has its root
in scepticism. In the human mind we have the substratum
of all ideals, and as surely as string responds to string when the
proper note is sounded, so surely, when words of truth and
nobleness are uttered by a living human soul, will these words
have a resonant response in other souls, and in this faith I
abide, and in this way I leave the question. (Loud cheers.)
Professor Boscoe then expressed the thanks of the meeting to
Professor Tyndall for his lecture, and the proceedings termi¬
nated.—Daily News.
CONFESSIONS OF EX-SPIRITUALISTS.*
Db. Randolph, after travelling eight years as a medium and
speaker, and making over 3,000 speeches in its defence, gives
the following view of its moral standing:—
“ For seven years I held daily intercourse with what
purported to be my mother’s spirit. I am now fully persuaded
that it was nothing but an evil spirit—an infernal demon—
who in that guise gained my soul’s confidence, and led me to
the very brink of ruin. We read in Scripture of demoniacal
possessions, as well as of normal spiritual action. Both facts
exist provable to-day; I am positive the former does.
A. J. Davis and his clique of Harmonialists say there are no
evil spirits. I emphatically deny the statement. Five of my
friends destroyed themselves, and I attempted it, by direct
influence of the spirits. Every crime in the calendar has been
committed by the mediums.
“ Adultery, fornication, suicides, desertions, unjust divorces,
prostitution, abortion, insanity. I charge all these to this
scientific Spiritualism. It has also broken up- families,
squandered fortunes, tempted and destroyed the weak. It has
banished peace from happy families, separated husbands and
wives, and scattered the intellect of thousands.”
Mr. J. F. Whitney was editor of the New York Pathfinder,
and an advocate of Spiritualism. After several years of
familiarity with it he gives the following testimony against
it:—
‘ * Now, after a long and constant watchfulness, seeing for
months and for years its progress atfd its practical workings
upon its devotees, its believers, and its mediums, we are com¬
pelled to speak our honest conviction, which is, that the
manifestations coming through the acknowledged mediums,
who are designated as rapping, tipping, writing, and entranced
mediums, have a baneful influence upon believers, and create
discord and confusion ; that the generality of these teachings
inculcate false ideas, approve of selfish individual acts, and
indorse theories and principles which, when carried out,
debase and make men little better than the brute. These are
among the fruits of modern Spiritualism, and we do not
hesitate to say that we believe if these manifestations are
continued to be received, and to be as little understood as they
are, and have been since they made their appearance at
Rochester, and mortals are to be deceived by their false,
fascinating, and snake-like charming powers which go with
them, the day will come when the world will require the
appearance of another Saviour to redeem it from its departing
from Christ’s warning.”
Cora Hatch (Mrs. Tappan), was, for years, the most popular
* From Signs of ov/r Times, Oct. 22nd, 1874, a journal published by J. Snow,
2, Ivy-lane, Paternoster-row, E.O.
of trance-speaking mediums. Her husband, Dr. Hatch,
travelled extensively with her, and thereby became well
acquainted with mediums, and with Spiritualism as it is
practised as well as taught by the body of its adherents. The
following is his testimony of the immorality of its doctrines
and the lives of its advocates
“ The most damning iniquities are everywhere perpetrated
in Spiritualistic circles, a very small percentage of which ever
comes to public attention. I care not whether it be spiritual
or mundane, the facts exist, and should demand the attention
and condemnation of an intelligent community.
“ It is worse than useless to talk to the Spiritualists against
this condition of things; for those who occupy the highest
position among them are aiding and abetting in all classes
of iniquities which prevail among them. The abrogation of
marriage, bigamy, accompanied by robbery, theft, rapes, are
all chargeable upon Spiritualism. I most solemnly affirm that
I do not believe that there has during the past five hundred
years, arisen any people who are guilty of so great a variety
of crimes and indecencies as the Spiritualists.
“ For a long time I was swallowed up in its whirlpool of
excitement, and comparatively paid but little attention to
its evils, believing that much good might result from the
openings of the avenues of Spiritual intercourse. But during
the past eight months I have devoted my attention to critical
investigation of its moral, social, and religious bearing, and I
stand appalled before the revelation of its awful and damning
realities.”
SPIRITUALISM IN LIVERPOOL.
Last Sunday Dr. William Hitohman delivered two scien¬
tific and philosophical addresses, afternoon and evening, on
behalf of the Liverpool Psychological Society, in the Islington
Assembly-rooms, under the respective titles of “ Professor
Tyndall’s Materialism” and “Professor Tyndall’s Spirit¬
ualism.” There was a large and attentive audience on both
occasions.
“ There is no more identity of nature,” said the lecturer,
“ between molecular motion and human thought than there
is between the taps of an electric telegraph machine and the
mechanical pulsations of a lover’s heart, or the broad catholic-
inspiring thoughts of reason—soaring, as it were, on angel-wings
to heaven,and entering the eternal protest of the intellect against
the identity of two sets of conceptions as adequate or equi¬
valent representations of spirit, mind, and matter. I must
believe my eyes—in health of body and soul. I cannot deny
the truth of what I hear, and see, or feel, and know, and in¬
duction is philosophical. Law rules spiritual phenomena
quite as much as physical phenomena, and the impartial
mind is just as free from the possibility of error in Spiritualism
as it is in materialism, when it elicits by a vigorous logic that
spiritual truth which underlies each group of material facts
presented to human senses.” The lecturer went on to say
that Dr. Tyndall'and his friend Dr. Huxley might visit the
glaciers of Switzerland again and again, and he thanked
them heartily for their joint opinions of their structure and
motion, or the physical basis of human life; their investiga¬
tions on the truths of natural history, the polarity of diamag¬
netic force, the beautiful researches, especially on magnets,
optic properties of crystals, and the relation of magnetism
and diamagnetism to molecular arrangement in general; the
action of aqueous vapour upon radiant heat, that checks the
flow of terrestrial warmth into infinite space, and thus
renders this our planet, the third in order from the chief star,
at present inhabitable for men, animals, and plants. But
when he publishes a new edition of his work on “ Sound,” let
him remember that there is a mode of motion elsewhere—in
materialised spirit forms, &c.—of which he has now neither
an adequate conception nor sound philosophical experience.
Demonstrations of modern Spiritualism were not discoverable
by the mere operation of individual thought, but were depen¬
dent entirely on that force, or faculty, which was everywhere
existent as life immortal, in the universe of spirit, and though
there never had been a true parallelogram, circle, or triangle,
in that world of polar molecules which ends in the infinite
azure of materialism, the truths now demonstrated by the
science of Spiritualism would retain their evidence and
certainty for ever and ever.
The first meeting this session of the Anthropological
Institute will be held next Tuesday evening at eight o’clock,
at 4, St. Martin’s-place, Trafalgar-square.
Nov. 6, 1874.
222 THE SPIRITUALIST.
A REMARKABLE SEANCE IN LONDON.
MATERIALISED SPIRIT HANDS—PERSONAL IDENTITY OE THE
SPIRITS OE THE DEPARTED—LARGE AND YARIED SPIRIT
LIGHTS.
Last Saturday night there was a seance at the house
of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-
square, W. The guests present were Mrs. Wiseman,
of 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.; Mrs. and Miss
Ramsay, of 46, Bryanstone-square, W.; Mr. W. H. Har¬
rison, of Wilmin Yilla, Chaucer-road, Herne-hill, S.E.;
also two enquirers into Spiritualism, namely, Sir John
Metcalfe, Bart., and Capt. M. C. Broun. The medium
was Mr. Monck, who had never met Sir John Metcalfe
until a few minutes before the seance began, and at its
close pledged his word that he knew nothing about him,
his relatives, or his affairs, although many revelations
on these points were made by the spirits in the course
of the evening.
Raps, weak at first, hut gradually growing so loud
that they could have been clearly heard in the passage
outside while the door was closed, then came upon the
table. Sir John Metcalfe asked whether the raps could
tell him anything about his son, when they signalled
out “How’s Charles?” Sir John then said that he
had a son of the name of Charles, and the medium
remarked that until the question had been put, he did
not know that the questioner had a son at all.
The table cloth then began to rise at the edge of the
table between Mr. Monck and Mrs. Ramsay, who were
seated a foot or more apart. A hand seemed to be
underneath it raising it and playing upon it With
its fingers; Mrs. Ramsay who was close to it, said that
she could see impressions of fingers which were playing
against it. The cloth was thus raised four or five inches
at the edge of the table, and kept moving for about a
minute; the hands of all the members of the circle were
in full view during this manifestation, the amount of
light being that emitted by a candle placed on the centre
of the table.
Raps then spelt out “ Cha—and after a long
break, and some corrections, at length gave the name
t( Charlotte.”
Mr. Monck was then entranced; he placed his hand
on Mrs. Gregory’s head, and mesmerised her, then
made passes over the top of her head and Mr. Harri¬
son’s head successively, as if he were collecting some¬
thing in his hands, which he proceeded to rub upon his
own head and neck. It was then evident that a spirit
unused to controlling mediums was making Strong
efforts to control him and to speak through his lips;
at last, turning to Sir John Metcalfe, the name “ Char¬
lotte” was ejaculated, and a sound resembling the word
“ Sherbertthe medium then appeared to be overcome
with emotion, and began to weep; he suddenly fell
flat on the floor, with hands crossed on his breast,
where he lay for a long time. Once he murmured
something about “beautiful flowers.”
"When spirits first control mediums, they often do
not know how to leave them, and cause them to fall
backwards; Mr. Peebles, who has had such large ex¬
perience in America, once stated that he had often
noticed this to be the case.
Samuel Wheeler, one of the most active of the spirit
guides of the medium, then controlled him, and in
answer to questions said that in earth-life he lived at
Portsmouth, where at first he was a shipwright, and
afterwards a dissenting minister, “ passing rich on
forty pounds a yearhe now looked backward with
more satisfaction at his work as a wheelwright than his
work as a preacher. He then said to Sir John Met¬
calfe—“ There is a gentleman near you who cannot
communicate; he says that he was a relation of yours
—a very near relation.”
Sir John asked for his name.
The controlling spirit said:—He says his name is
“ Thomas,” and that you ought to know him; he has
two other names, which I will try to get, but we com¬
municate under difficulties. C, 0,—no—T, 0,—no—
I have it—“ Theophilus! ” That’s it! Now he’s going.
Hi! Mr.! I say, come back and tell us your other
name. No, he’s off.
Sir John Metcalfe—How was the spirit dressed ?
Samuel Wheeler—He was not dressed at all, for he
was not materialised to show himself to mortals; when
we materialise we put a thin shell over ourselves which
looks like clothes. Excuse me for not calling you
“ Sir,” for we are a democracy up here, but I don’t
mean wrong. I spoke to him as spirits do, by thought¬
reading, so it is not easy to get and give names. Did
you ever read a work on railway bookstalls called The
Language of the Eye, for that is something like it ? I
see a woman now with “ E” on her brow; I can’t see
clearly; here’s another lady with “ C ” on her forehead,
and another with “ E, M.” Here’s a man here who
doesn’t like you, and is trying to interfere ; I think you
injured him ; he is very angry—well—perhaps not so
very bad, for he has got over it a good deal. I don’t
think he understands me, he looks so dark. He is
pointing to your right hand, to the first two fingers,
and he says I may as well count in the thumb. You
wrote something or signed something to hurt him.
Mrs. Gregory—Perhaps signed his death-warrant.
Samuel Wheeler—Here’s a man from Earringdon
says he knew you.
Sir John Metcalfe—Where’s Earringdon ? I don’t
know it.
Samuel Wheeler—In Berkshire. He looks like a
farmer. Here’s a woman here with E, E, L, on her
face; its Eelicia—Eelicia Hemans. I see a woman
with the indefinite article “ Ann” for her name. I say,
here’s a lot of men with their shirts on their heads.
Mr. Harrison—That’s a vivid way of describing
turbans.
Samuel Wheeler—Well, they have none on their
backs, so I suppose that put the idea in my head.
They speak about Bengal. [To Sir John Metcalfe.']
Were you ever in India ? Here’s a lady; she can give
her name now—Charlotte Herbert Lowe—it’s your
wife! She tried to get hold of my medium just now.
Mr. Harrison—Are all the communications true ?
Sir John Metcalfe—They are all accurate.
Samuel Wheeler next saw other spirits known to
Mrs. and Miss Ramsay ; he said that while there was
a light in the room at the time he was controlling the
medium, he could not very well see external physical
objects, such as the jewellery worn by the ladies.
Soon afterwards Mr. Monck woke up, but could not
open his eyes; the eyeballs were rolled upwards, so as
to disclose nothing but the whites. He asked Mr.
Harrison to blow into his eyes, and to make upward
passes over his face; thus in about three minutes
he was restored to his normal state. In answer to
questions, he said that next day his eyes would be
bloodshot. As a rule, he did not recollect what he said
in the trance state; sometimes, after a semi-trance, he
remembered a little; trances were not satisfactory
Nov. 6, 1874. THE SPIRITUALIST. 223
to him, since he did not know what took place, and he
thought that they were not convincing to the observers.
He was sent into trances suddenly, beautiful breezes
played over him, then he lost recollection; a trance
never hurt him, but it was a perfect blank to him, and
he did not know how long it lasted. If he was
listening to raps at the moment of entrancement, when
he woke up he sometimes wondered that they were not
still going on, yet the entrancement between might have
been of an hour’s duration.
The sitters then requested Mr. Monck to sit in the
dark, to see what would occur; he objected, but at last
consented. He was then entranced, and made to walk
about the room. Soon a luminous hand, upon a
slightly luminous background, about two inches larger
in diameter than the hand itself, was seen. The hand
had a phosphorescent glow, but there was no smoke or
smell; it was rigid; there appeared to be no flexibility of
its fingers. Next a smaller hand came, and afterwards
two or three Itnninous discs, nearly circular in shape.
One of these luminous discs was brought near to Mr.
Harrison, who was told to “ look at the face; ” he
could see a nose and closed eyes roughly formed, as if
hurriedly moulded. These luminous objects had a
motion as if they were carried by the entranced
medium, but one or two clairvoyant observers present
said that they saw spirits connected with them.
THE DOCTRINE OF IMMORTALITY AMONG- THE
ANCIENT EGYPTIANS.
No. H.
Historical Study by C. Constant, Smyrna; Member of the
Asiatic Society, Paris. Addressed to the British National
Association of Spiritualists. Translated from the French
by Emily Kislingbury.
With this torch of the language and writing of the Egyptians
in our hands, we can now descend into the mysterious hypo-
geums of Sakkara, and question these mummified children of
the Pharaohs, from the depth of their silence and their eternal
darkness.
These hypogeums contain, in fact, all the elements for the
reconstruction of the past of this people, and for our initiation
into their ideas with regard to death and the destiny of man.
The walls of these mortuary chambers are literally ornamented
with paintings representing religious scenes, and the sarco¬
phagi, as well as the papyri, give us the history of the dead
person whose spirit figures in these symbolic designs. These
are the real pages of history which the Champollions and
other Egyptologists have consulted in order to learn the
Egyptian doctrines of immortality.
This theme is more especially developed in what is called
The Funeral Ritual.
The Funeral Ritual is a papyrus manuscript roll which is
found in the coffins of the mummies, and of which the
Egyptian title is, Booh of the Manifestations in the Light. These
MSS., which are rarely found complete, are about thirty or
forty feet long, and one or two feet wide. They contain, in
writing and drawing, besides a number of prayers, pictures of
the scenes which the soul of the defunct has to traverse in the
course of its immortal destiny.
Various funeral rituals—one of which, in the Museum of the
Louvre, belonged to the mummy of a priest, others from
ancient Thebes, MSS. of the Roman period in Egypt, besides
bas-reliefs—give us (although by fragments) sufficiently ample
information on the subject of the doctrine of the soul. I will
endeavour to unite some of these fragments, and to recompose,
as well as possible, the dogma of immortality among the
ancient Egyptians.
Let us begin with the accompanying design taken from a
copy of the Booh of the Manifestations in the Light.* This
design, half realistic, half ideal, represents a mummy lying on
* See a little book in English, entitled The Egyptian, by the author of
The Jew. London: The Religious Tract Society. 0. 0.
a funeral bier, the soul of the mummy, in the form of a spirit
(winged-man), is kneeling in the body as in a prison, awaiting
deliverance in an attitude of supplication and prayer.
The reason that the spirit is placed near the region of the
heart is (I presume) that the Egyptians, in common with all
the ancients, believed the heart or the blood to be the prin¬
cipal seat of the soul (Moses, Dent. xii. 23). The sort of bird-
angel which hovers over the body is one of the God-judges,
who comes to receive the spirit of the dead, to conduct it to
heaven or to Amenti.
The figure is a hybrid of a falcon and a human face, one of
the forms of the celestial hawk, which plays an immense
part in Egyptian mythology. The hawk was the symbol of
the sun, of Osiris, of Horus, and was even identical with the
phoenix; it symbolised life, heaven, regeneration. In the
present instance it comes under the form of a bird-angel to
give life and liberty to the soul. The two signs that the
angel holds in his hand are the hieratic emblems of life and
transmigration. The handled cross especially, crux ansatat
the symbol of life, is one of the most revered hieroglyphics.
This sacred emblem is found in the hands of nearly all the
divinities of the Nile. It symbolised Isis, the Nile, and the
principle of all fecundity.
This scene also represents a guardian angel receiving the
spirit of his protege and giving him eternal life, for we must
remark that the cross in the hands of divinities is generally
held by the handle, but here it is held by the other end, in
order that the handle may be presented. It is therefore
evidently with the object of giving life that this messenger
from heaven visits the dead person.
We must now follow the course of these two spirits on their
heavenward journey, and for this purpose I regret that I
cannot place before the eyes of my readers other fac-similes
copied from the papyri and bas-reliefs. These may, how¬
ever, be seen in the works of the Champollions which I have
mentioned.
Other fragments of funeral rituals represent this spirit-
procession traversing various regions or celestial spheres,
before arriving at the Amenti, or place of Supreme Judgment.
These journeyings present different aspects or phases accord¬
ing to the character of the individual engaged in them.
The defunct appears in the drawings clothed in white,
adoring the genii or spirits of the eight regions of Hermes.
The sacred birds Bennon and Ghenghen, Atmon, a spirit in
the form of a ram, the god Phta, and a number of other
emblematic animals and genii receive his prayers and adora¬
tions. The goddesses Nephthys and Isis almost always figure
among them. The defunct offers them libations and incense,
that they may allow him to pass, and thus he arrives before
Osiris, the supreme judge of Amenti.
This last scene, or scene of judgment, is uniformly the same
in all the Egyptian funeral rituals. Only the features of the
road are different in accordance with the diversities of indi¬
vidual existence; the unity of the end is well characterised by
the unity of justice, which is the same for all.
One papyrus, which gives a picture of the judgment, and one
of the most complete which has been discovered, belongs to the
mummy of a woman named Tetchonsis. Champolhon the
younger found other analogous scenes among the painted bas-
reliefs in the little temple behind the Amenophion, on the
224 THE SPIRITUALIST. Nov. 6, 1874.
western side of Thebes, dedicated to the gods Hathor and
Thma'i about the year 200 b.c., by Ptolemy Epiphanes.
Pirstjis seen on the left of the picture the Supreme God,
seated on his throne, wearing a head-dress emblematic of life-
giving light. In his hand he holds a whip and a sort of
crooked stick, expressive of his power to excite or retard
the movement of the world, symbols of attraction and repul¬
sion. Near to, and facing him is a group of three objects:
a vase, containing a thyrsis, to which is attached a panther’s
skin, emblems of terrestrial force, and of the Egyptian Bach-
chus. Close to these, on a table, are to be seen a pomegranate,
and a lotus-flower, symbols of the fecundity of moisture.
After that comes the dog Oms, the Cerberus of Egyptian
mythology, and behind this guardian, at the further extremity
of the scene, is seen the spirit of Tetchonsis, clothed in her
earthly form, standing between two goddesses, Truth and
Justice. One of these, who appears to be the conducting
angel (of whom I spoke above) presents the defunct to Thma'i,
who is to weigh her good and bad actions in the balance.
This balance is placed in the middle of the scene, between the
judging god and the spirit of the dead, and two persons,
Horus and Anubis, stand by the scales to examine the weight
of the actions. The bad actions are symbolised by an earthern
vessel, the good ones by a feather, the emblem of Thmai, or
Truth and Justice.
The result of the weighing is communicated to Thoth,
who takes note of it. This, is a divinity with an ibis head,
the emblem of the heart and of reason. The whole judg¬
ment-scene is crowned by a gallery of forty-two judges or
jurymen, each symbolising various divine attributes.
At length the spirit is judged, and declared to be good or
bad. It passes next before the celestial jury, who pronounce
the final sentence. If good, it is admitted into the heaven
of pure happiness ; if bad or imperfect, it is condemned to be
reincarnated, and to recommence its material life, in order
that it may progress by means of trial and expiation. In the
case of which we speak, the spirit of Tetchonsis is pronounced
guilty of gluttony, and is sent back to earth in a bark, to live
in the form of a sow.
The Books of the Manifestations in the Light end at this
final scene of spiritual judgment, and do not give us the suc¬
ceeding incarnation of the spirit. This is logical, for it treats
of one complete existence. Man will be reincarnated for the
purpose of working out his own salvation, and for each dead
person there is a special funeral ritual.
These papyri, however, are not all. “ Other scenes,” says
Champollion-Figeac, “ of a similar order, and no less signi¬
ficant in their bearing on the psychological; dogmas taught
and received among the Egyptians, exist besides.” As reli¬
gious decorations on the monuments of the Nile, these different
scenes form the complements of the doctrine of immortality.
It Jwas in the royal catacombs of Biban-el-Molouk, where
the remains of the kings of the eighteenth, nineteenth, and
twentieth dynasties repose, that these valuable representations
were preserved from the ravages of time. There we see the
sun-god Osiris traversing the zones of heaven and hell (day
and night, or summer and winter). Reincarnation, as a means
of expiation, is only one of the phases of human life; the
Egyptians admitted also a hell and a celestial paradise, or
punishment and happiness in the spiritual state. This is why
Osiris passes before the souls or spirits in states of punish¬
ment or reward, as is seen in these royal sculptures. On one
side are the (spirits of the blessed in the enjoyment of
emblematical cool zephyrs and limpid waters ; on the opposite
side are the souls of the condemned suffering frightful tortures
in the human form. Some are tied to stakes and about to be
scourged, others suspended by the feet; others again, with
their hearts outside their chests, are drawing themselves along
the ground with their hands bound, pictures all highly
expressive of moral suffering.
From all these chastisements, however, there is release by
the recommencement of a life of trial, and the human spirit
attains to final happiness in the Amenti, which is the heaven
of Egyptian felicity.; At the entrance of these celestial abodes
the religion of Osiris inscribed:—“ They have found grace in
the eyes of the great God, they dwell in the abodes of glory
where they live on the heavenly life; the bodies which they
have left behind will repose for ever in their tombs, while they
themselves will enjoy the presence of the Supreme God 1 ”
' Count Pomab should bring his speculations about the
reality of spiritual atoms to the test of experiment, and produce
results which his ideas will explain, but those of others will not.
GREAT DISTURBANCE AT GERALD MASSEY’S
LECTURE AT GREENWICH.
Last Tuesday night Mr. Gerald Massey appeared before the
“ Greenwich Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge,”
established in 1837, to lecture on “ A Spirit World Revealed
to the Natural World from the Earliest Times by means of
Objective Manifestations, the only Basis of Man’s Immortality.”
The theatre of the Institution was crowded, many being unable
to obtain seats. There was no chairman. Scarcely any
Spiritualists were present, all we could recognise being Messrs.
N. F. Dawe, J. H. Gledstanes, Joseph Ivimey, Newton Cros-
land, and W. H. Harrison.
THEOEIES OF MAN’S ORIGIN.
In the course of his lecture, Mr. Massey said :—There are
two theories of man’s origin. One assumes that he was struck
off perfect from the mint of creation, stamped with the
image of God ; the other, that he has been evolved physically
from the animal kingdoms as a crowning work, and is slowly
approximating to that divine likeness which will take eternity
to complete. One depicts him as descending from his high
original estate on his way to the Devil; the other as ascending
from the dust of the earth on his way toward God, in the ful¬
filment of a glorious destiny. For my part, I hold that the
spiritual nature of man is as much a development, a growth of
consciousness, a progressive derivation from its source as his
physical form is from the earlier forms. I have no fear of the
doctrine called Darwinian, and I hold that the current fear of it
argues a conception of creation that is utterly non-spiritual!
Darwinism only needs a true Spiritualism to put it through
and clinch it on the other side. Man never did begin on this
earth as an angel ready-made; did not begin as that which
will take him an eternity to become. It seems to me that he
was born as blind as puppies are; blind to many laws of our
being which we now call natural. In fact, it was as a law¬
breaker that he first recognised the law-maker; it took ages
of time to get his mental eyes open by frequent running of
his head against the hard wall of solid facts. The first object
of his education was to find himself here—a being discreted
from the life around him. Having found that self which he
came to make so much of, and hug so blindly, and love so un¬
wisely, the final object of his unfolding spiritual life is to lose
his own self in his growing sense of the creative love, which
draws nearer and nearer to him by many ways, and the per¬
fection of his being, the fulness of his individuality, will
finally consist of his openness to, his utter dependence and
subsistence on the divine life. Man is not formed in the
image of God merely because he goes on two legs instead of
four. The Father had to reveal Himself to His child very
slowly, very finitely, in order that he might come within
range of its comprehension at all—reveal just so much as
could be assimilated—and so, little by little, and with many
appeals, the likeness had to be evolved in the spiritual,life
from within. For every upward swell in the human ascent,
there has been a descent of the divine which caused it.
The lecturer then began to point out in detail the univer¬
sality of objective Spiritual manifestations among savages and
civilised nations, at all periods of human history,
BE STILTS OE ME. MASSEY’S BIBLIOGEAPHIC RESEAECHES.
In the course of his lecture Mr. Massey mentioned that he
had been busy for a long time examining into the origin of
myths, and intended to publish the results in a book. As he
proceeded to tell some of the results, the audience gradually
grew restive, as if uncertain whether to applaud or condemn,
until he stated that the Druid circle, the round towers of
Ireland, the words “ church ” and “ kirk ” all originated
from the primitive custom of forming circles to commune
with spirits. At this point there were some cheers and
hisses, upon which Mr. Massey said,—“ I do not want your
cheers or hisses; they are all the same to me.”
Shortly afterwards, he stated that certain Hebrew scholars
believed that the oldest books of the Old Testament were of
much later date than that assigned to them, and that the pro¬
phet Esdras had stated that the originals had all been
destroyed, but had been given again through his medium-
ship, in a vision brought on by a spirit giving him some¬
thing to drink, whilst swift writers took down what he said on
tablets of box-wood; this then, was the probable origin of the
books now ascribed to Moses. The result of this assertion of
the lecturer was great uproar, and several persons left the
building.
All was quiet for a time, till he stated that the soma juice
of the Hindoos, which they used to throw themselves into, a
Nov. 6, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
225
clairvoyant state, so as to hold communion with the spirit
world, was the juice of a fig-tree; that this same fig-tree
figured in Egyptian and Grecian mythology, and that un¬
doubtedly the tree in the garden of Eden was a fig-tree, and
not an apple-tree. The juice of the fig-tree gave those who
drank of it the perceptions of spirits, thus the original idea of
immortality was much the same as that of being eternally drunk.
At this point there was much confusion, and strong hissing.
Mr. Massey remarked, “ What’s the use of hissing at facts
which you will find recorded as such in Mr. Tylor’s books ? ”
The listeners then began to go out in groups of six or eight at
a time, some of them slamming the doors after them.
The lecturer continued that the “Thus saith the Lord” in
the Old Testament, might in some places have been more
appropriately rendered “ Thus saith the Devil,” for the spirit
ordered the wholesale slaughter of men, women, and helpless
children, who were as much the children of the Almighty as
the Jews were. This caused tremendous uproar, and shouts of
“ Turn him out.”; The noise continued for perhaps ten
minutes, a Methodist preacher of the name of Baxendale
shouting, when there was a lull in the storm, such expressions
as “ Turn him out I ”—“ It’s perfect blasphemy.”
Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe then mounted the platform, and when
at last he could make his voice heard, he said: “Would it
not be better for those who do not like the lecture to leave
quietly, whilst the rest remain? ”
Mr. Baxendale said : “ Many young persons have been, lis¬
tening to this blasphemy; indeed, it is worse than blasphemy,
it is indecency.”
As by this time the hall was half empty, and those who dis¬
liked the lecture most had left first, there was a strong division
among those who remained, and Messrs. Massey and Baxen¬
dale were alternately hissed by opposing parties of tolerably
equal force. In one of the lulls Mr. Massey, who is not a large
man, quietly said, “ What! are'you afraid of me? ” at which
there was much laughter.
A lady here stepped upon the platform, and after a time the
row subsided, to hear what she had to say. She remarked:
“ I have paid my money to hear the lecturer; he appears to
be a gentleman of culture and education, and I do not think
he would say anything to offend any lady. I consider that I
have a right to hear him.”
Mr. Baxendale began to vociferate again, and the listeners
cried “ Turn him out.” The audience had now so thinned
that there was evidently a majority in favour of hearing Mr.
Massey. The hall was still nearly half lull.
The Secretary to the Institution then mounted the platform
saying—I wish to state the decision of the members of this
Institution.
A Speaker remarked—They have no right to decide ; they
have entered into an arrangement with the_outside public, and
taken their money.
A Voice—I should like to hear the lecture.
r Another Voice—Those who don’t like it should withdraw,
and the committee ought to have somebody here to keep order.
Mr. Baxendale here began to cry out, and the noise recom¬
menced at once till he was silenced by the uproar.
The Secretary—I think that Mr. Massey should conclude
his lecture at once, because I think that many of our members
object to it; we offer to return the money at the doors if you
wish it. Perhaps we had better put it to the vote of the
members. I think he had better conclude at once.
Mr. Cullis said—I am not a Spiritualist, but a Christian,
but I think if we do not hold our faith more firmly than to
be afraid to listen to a lecture, it is a poor, paltry kind of faith.
(Loud applause.) I most strongly hold opinions in opposition
to those of Mr. Massey, who is a man of intelligence and
culture. We ought to give him a hearing. Let those who
object leave the building.
A Working Man—I hope they won’t rob me of my six-
penn’orth. (Laughter.)
Mr. Massey —I have not insulted anybody’s faith; I have
only dealt with the interpretation of facts.
Mr. Baxendale—It is not our faith you are shaking, but our
sense of decency.
Mr. Massey—If this is a specimen of your decency it is a
bad specimen ; this is the only audience either in England or
America where I have seen a hundred people with their hats
on, as there are now. As there is now sUenoe, may I conclude
the lecture ?
Here the uproar between the contending parties began
again.
A Gentleman—I have attended at much inconvenience to
listen to the lecture; I liave paid my sixpence 
A Voice—Well done! (Laughter.)
The gentleman continued—I have paid my sixpence, I say,
and the point in dispute had better be put to the vote; the
minority should then keep quiet, or leave.
A Lady—I came here to hear the lecture, and have heard
nothing to. shock modesty.
A Voice—No more than is in the Bible.
Mr. Massey said that he had shown his lecture to ladies ; they
were deeply interested in it, and so were others. The Hebrew
account libelled women by saying a woman was the cause of
the “ fall,” but it was only a lying legend.
Here there was more uproar, more people left the building,
until the hall remained but one-third full. Mr. Dawe and the
Secretary were on the platform at this time ; the latter had
marks of agony on his countenance, wiped the perspiration
from his brow, and looked as if he wished that he were
Secretary to some other Institution.
Mr. Massey remarked that the facts of Spiritualism came to
him in his own home, through the mediumship of his own wife,
who at times was the instrument for the expression of
intelligence not her own.
This recurrence to the subject of Spiritualism, at once
enlisted the attention of the audience, who then heard him
quietly to the end of the lecture, when they gave him a round
of applause, mingled with a few hisses.
■WHAT AEE THE CHARACTERISTICS OP SPIRITUALISTS ?
Towards the close of his lecture Mr. Massey said: As a
body, the Spiritualists are possibly the most curious agglome¬
rate of human beings in the world—an aggregate of the most
diverse and unique individualities ever known. We are drawn,
but not bound together by the facts that we testify to in com¬
mon ; we are an incoherent cloud of witnesses. Of one thing
only do we speak with one voice, and that is, the reality of
our facts. But mark this: it was not Spiritualism that created
this bristling mass of individualities, each of which is unique,
“ one to the set,” as it were; these are the diverse outcome of
other systems of thought. We are the warts on the stricken,
stunted tree—the thorns and thistles of uncultivated fields;
the starvelings of materialism; the wanderers in the theo¬
logical wilderness, and rebels against usurped authority; we
club together the excrescences of character, that never could
attain their natural growth under the old cramping conditions.
But we stand, with all our distinctness, massed like a very'
chevmx-de-frise around our central truth, touch it whoever
dares.
SPECULATIONS ON THE PHILOSOPHY OP
EXISTENCE.]
BY COUNT BE MEBINA POMAR,
Author of “Estudios Acerca del Progreso del Espiritu” ltLa
Religion Moderm” and “ TKe Honeymoon."
“I deny nothing, and I assert nothing; I only speculate and seek for
truth.”
We believe the universe to be composed of various
forces, which, by the different effects they produce on
the world we inhabit, we have divided into material and
spiritual atoms.
Every fragment of matter in the universe represents a
corresponding atom of spiritual existence; this realm of
spiritual being is the essence, force, and real substance of the
material; but both inevitably are united, both are resolved
back into their component parts, in the chemical change we
call death.
The same as there are material atoms in the mineral,
vegetable, and animal kingdoms, there are also spiritual
atoms in every one and in each of those; thus, as man’s body
is composed of earthly substances,—vegetable tissues, mineral,
atmospheric, vegetable and watery elements,—so all these
have realms of spiritual existences perfectly in harmony with
their peculiar quality and functions. Hence there are spirits,
or rather masses of undeveloped spiritual essences, in the
earth, water, fire, air, stones, minerals, plants, flowers,
animals, in the atmosphere, in the other planets, without
limit or number.
The same as man’s body is entirely formed of the elements
which have composed minerals, vegetables, and animals, his
soul or individualised spirit is composed of the spirits that
have inhabited or rather given life to all those ; so, as a whole,
is far superior to the spirits of earth, water, plants, etc. But
there are also spirits in the universe superior even to the
spirit in man.
226
THE SPIRITUALIST.
The spiritual and material atoms are immortal. For every¬
thing changes but nothing dies. Death is but a word, the
same as birth; they are words made by men to express ideas
which they cannot understand. Man has never seen a being
born or die; he hath seen a spirit appear under the form of a
germ, in an embryotic existence ; some time after he has seen
this spirit disappear and his body dissolved into its component
material substances; but as for the principle that gave life to
this form, it has always escaped his comprehension. Yet it
exists.
It is impossible to deny that there is a spiritual essence in
man, besides his material organisation, because it is not the
organs that produce the faculty of thought ; on the contrary,
those organs proceed from this faculty. The senses, there¬
fore, are not the intelligence : they are only the instruments.
Man has a spirit that gives him life, and this spirit is
immortal. Because, if the decomposition of the body was
the annihilation of life, it would be necessary to admit a
Creator who undid with one hand what he did with the other,
or two rival powers, a creative and a destructive. But reason
refuses such beliefs. Let us beware of believing anything
that stands against reason: God did not give us this great
blessing in order that we might believe nonsensical doctrines.
The order of nature is one, because God is one.
Man’s spirit may grow old, it may grow weak, but is destined
to become active again ; his action may stop with his death,
but his faculty of acting cannot cease. At the hour of his
death as at the moment of his birth it is there ; quite as per¬
ceptible to those who surround him, and yet where it comes
from and where it goes to are mysteries to them.
The spiritual atoms as the material are immortal,—that
is to say, they last for ever jjbeing, as they are, indestructible,
and, like the material atoms, can form parts of several beings
successively.
For instance: a cabbage is formed of various atoms of
matter, united for the time being in one form. A cow eats
this cabbage, and the particles of matter of which it was com¬
posed become parts of this animal’s body; the man who
partakes of the flesh or of the milk of this cow partakes also
of the material atoms that made the body of the animal, and
those pass naturally to form parts of his organism, such as
flesh and blood. At the death of the man those same particles
are dissolved into their component parts, and thus it goes on
forever.
So we see that an atom of matter can form part of a
cabbage, a cow, a man, etc., successively, and, in the same
way, of an innumerable series of organisms.
Matter is therefore immortal ; when it no longer forms
part of a human body, it will in time help to make up another
form in the natural order of things.
The spiritual atoms follow the same law, they are likewise
immortal; only that, having life in themselves, being as they
are the life-giving essence of the organisms they inhabit, they
themselves form it, attracting around them material atoms,
with the aid of their peri-sprit or attractive force, that binds
matter and spirit together by means of the individualised
power of life.
As the atoms progress—for, being the essence of the life
which animates the universe, they must progress—they form
bodies or moulds of form more and more advanced, more
and more developed, always in conformity with their progress
and actual development. For the development of the organs
follows that of the spirit, the progress of which would be
stopped if its physical conformation were not adapted to its
moral organisation^ What could the genius of Newton do,
imprisoned in the form of an elephant ? And, on the other
hand, what would be the use of the organs of a Newton to the
spirit of that animal ?
The spirits form, therefore, their bodies in accordance with
the functions they expect from them. As they progress they
require less of the material element wherewith to form their
bodies,—that is to say, they require material envelopes of less
density. Thus, the proportion of the spiritual and material
atoms is ever varying, and is always augmenting in favour of
the former. In this way they form minerals, vegetables, and
animals, and After an intermediate state, of which at present
we do not speak, help to make up the individualised spirit that
gives life to the animal called man.
Man is thus formed of an agglomeration of spiritual and
material atoms, which are united by means of a force to
which we have given the absurd names of peri-esprit or meta-
espiritu ; but such as they are, those are the names by which
it is known. (By the former in France, and by the latter in
Spain.)
Hov. 6, 1874.
Man, according to philosophy, is a rational animal, and his
animal nature is of an entirely different source from his
rational being or inner soul, although these two are united in
one individuality during the short life of each being in the
planet.
The material body known as his animal nature must have
had an origin entirely different from that of the spiritual
soul which gives it life. For they are of an entirely distinct
nature.
Scripture seems to point out to us this truth when it tells us
that “ God made man of the dust of the earth, and breathed ”
(or inspired) “ into his nostrils the breath of lives, and man
was made a living soul.” This is a direct and simple exposi¬
tion that man’s body was not created, as the first and absolute
sense of this word seems to imply, but that it was formed of
pre-existing matter, namely, the dust of the earth, which
means with the mineral, vegetable, and animal substances of
which this dust was composed.
His soul was also created in the same way—that is to say, it
was derived from the spiritual mass that had given life to
former organisations; only that it does not become an
individualised spirit until it is capable of forming for itself a
human body, and then for the first time it acquires an abso¬
lute power over the matter which forms its body, or mould, by,
means of the magnetico-spirit-force called peri-esprit or
meta-espiritu.
Thus, the individualised spirit of man builds up his own
body, and this is what is meant by the words “ a living soul.”
The spark of life is the peri-esprit which is breathed or in¬
spired on the human being in the moment of his first appear¬
ance on earth.
It is curious to remark that this form of inspiring is the
same which was used by Christ when He conferred upon His
disciples the supernatural power and the graces of the
Christian dispensation, which was, as it were, a new life to
them, and is even now a form often used in the rites and
ceremonies of the Church of Borne.
After the man’s death, the spiritual atoms which formed his
soul, like the material molecules that made up his body, and
that in a short time became again dust of the earth, go to form
a superior being, perhaps another man; but more advanced
and developed than the first, because it has acquired his
experience and knowledge, which once acquired by a spirit can
never be lost. In this way, if the spiritual molecules lose their
temporary individuality in the change of material atoms that
make up their body, they do not change their essence, and
remain therefore the same spirit, although in another and
higher condition of being.
As before said : Besides the spiritual and material atoms,
there are other atoms that unite the spirit with its body in the
being called man. Some think those are the spirit itself, but
in reality they are only the peri-esprit which gives life to the
material organs forming the attractive force which unites and
holds matter and spirit together, serving as a motor-power of
action to the spirit over the temporal material envelope that
binds it to the material world.
Those spiritual atoms are the mere attractive envelope which
binds Spirit and body together. In the first or inner recesses
of nature is the realm of force, comprising aura, essence, light,
heat, magnetism, life, nerve, electricity, and all the imponder¬
ables that make up motion, for motion is force, composed of
many subdivisible parts, but this is not, however, indivi¬
dualised spirit. They are the spiritual parts of matter, and
supply to matter the qualities of force; but they are all
embryotic, all transitory, and only partially intelligent exis¬
tences ; they are organs but not organisms, and only can act
as an attractive force between the soul and its body.
St. Paul said to the Corinthians, “ There is a natural body
and there is a spiritual body.” The first is that which is
formed by the material atoms; the second, the one formed by
the spiritual. This is the one that gives life to the' material
body, establishing a connecting current between the spirit and
its body, and it is by its means only that we can command the
material part of our nature. It is, in a word, the life of man
without being his soul.
Man’s soul, that is to say, his individuality, is formed, as I
have before stated, of the different spiritual atoms, after they
have developed themselves through the three lower kingdoms
of nature, mineral, vegetable and animal, and perhaps through
others yet unknown to us.
Every spirit must ascend by those slow steps before he can
attain an individualised existence. It would have been un¬
just of God, if he could create a man at once, not to have
made him an angel. But everything must follow its course.
Nov. 6, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
227
and this slow progression is necessary to the spirit, for it could
not give life all at once to the human form; it must learn first
the rudiments of organised existence, and this can only be
done through a series of progressive lives, beginning at the
very first step of the ladder and ascending to its very top. In
this progressive series of existences the spiritual atoms must
develope themselves through the atmospheric, mineral, vege¬
table, animal, and individualised states.
And yet in reality there are neither kingdoms nor species.
Under the shape of,' those millions of forms and of different
physiognomies, we only can see phases and grades of intelli¬
gence, more or less developed it is true, but yet always of the
same nature. Those families that appear to us so varied are
in reality but one continued and ascending scale of being. It
would be impossible to tell where one species, one family, or
even where one kingdom ends and the other begins. They are
only ages, epochs, phases, of organised life ; in a word, differ¬
ent stages of organised existence, which become more and
more developed, and more and more advanced, but which
always retains the same qualities.
But nothing imperfect is permanent, and nothing is perfect
excepting God, who is perfection itself; so every spirit must
change, it must progress, and therefore it must also lose the
individuality which it would be impossible for it to keep
through so many changes, and under such different conditions.
As St. Paul stated, “ we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be
changed.”
And this is true; according to the observations of the most
learned and reliable physicians, we can state as a proved fact,
that every seven years, or perhaps in even less time, our
material bodies change entirely. So that as far as our
material nature is concerned we are entirely new persons at
the end of every seven years during our earth-life.
Our spirit changes in the same way, only that its changes
are always a further development; we always progress,
because the divine essence that is in us makes progress,—that
is to say, we gain more and more power, as we go on, over the
material atoms that make up our terrestrial habitation.
Thus we see that the power of the spirit over matter is far
greater in the animal kingdom than it is in the mineral or
vegetable; in the first (mineral) the relative power of the
spiritual atoms is exceedingly limited, almost entirely .imper¬
ceptible ; this is because as yet they are only in embryo, and
as such they are learning their first lesson in the material
world.
In man, the mind, that is, the spiritual atoms which make
up his soul and his life, are in proportion to the material
atoms of his body as fifty to fifty, more or less, for in some
cases the mind, and in others the body, predominates.
In a future state the human spirit will form for itself organisa¬
tions in which the mind, already more advanced and developed,
will work more freely a less material body ; and in this new
being the spirit will be in proportion to matter as seventy-five
to twenty-five.
Man, as he now inhabits this planet, is in a sad intermediate
state between the animal and the angel; he aspires to a
supreme knowledge and he cannot attain it; he wants to ex¬
plore the first cause of all that exists and he is obliged to stop
half-way, his mind will carry him no further ; if he had less
intellectual qualities he would not have the pretension to en¬
quire into the origin of things ; while on the other hand, these
would be known to him if his mind were more developed, and
if his body was less material. As it is, he only knows suffi¬
cient to feel that the things he knows are but an infinitesimal
part of the glorious truths which he yearns to know.
Victor Hugo said very truly that a one-eyed man is much
more incomplete than a blind man, for he knows what it is
that’s wanting.
Man, therefore, cannot be the final state of the spirit, the
atoms that compose his mind have been educated for a far
more perfect state of being, and our soul is growing a great deal
too spiritual to remain much longer in this material body,
which is already too incomplete and imperfect for the functions
to which the spirit aspires.
I shall finish by repeating Louis Figuier’s true statement,
that “ Man is but a step in the progressive and ascending
ladder of animated beings. The divine power that filled the
earth with life, sensation, and thought; that gave life and
organisation to the plant; movement, sensation, and intelli¬
gence to the animal; and to man, besides those numerous
functions, the faculty of reason and the power of speculating
on the ideal, intends one day creating by man’s side or
rather after him, a being yet superior to him.
“ This new creature, which modern religion and the minds
of poets seem to have guessed at in the ever-radiant and
beautiful type of the Christian angel, will be provided with
moral faculties, the nature and the purpose of which surpass
our present comprehension.
“ We must satisfy ourselves,’^ he continues, “ with express¬
ing this formidable problem without resolving it. For this
great mystery, to use the magnificent expression of Pliny, is
hidden in the majesty of nature; habet in majestate natures
or, to express it better still, in the thoughts and omnipotence
of the (Creator of the material and spiritual atoms in the
universe.
<Eomspomjence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
MATERIALISED SPIRITS IN BISHOP AUCKLAND.
Sib,—Will you kindly permit me, through The Spiritualist,
to describe a seance for the materialised spirit form, held at
the house of Mr. Bobert Fawcett, Bishop Auckland, on
Monday, October 26th. There were present eight persons
besides Miss Annie Fawcett, who, I dare say, is well known to
many of your readers as a very remarkable trance and physical
medium. The sitters were Mr. and Mrs. Fawcett, Mr. Thomas
Fawcett, Mrs. C. (daughter of Mrs. Fawcett), Mrs. Gordon, and
her daughter Jennie, Mr. Hull, of Bishop Auckland, and
myself. The two last are not regular members of the circle.
The room where the seances are held is remarkably adapted for
such purposes. It is nearly square, wide, and very lofty ; on
ordinary occasions, a large table stands in the centre of
the apartment, in which many powerful manifestations have
been witnessed. It is a common occurrence to see this large
table lifted by unseen power when the tips of the fingers are
just touching it; and sometimes it is lifted without any con¬
tact at all; there are several, including myself, who can testify
that they have (been on the table when it has risen right up,
clear of the floor, as if weight made no difference.
At the corner of the room furthest from the door, a cabinet
was extemporised by means of an iron rod fastened at each
end to the walls; a screen or curtain was suspended therefrom,
leaving sufficient space inside for the medium either to sit or
lie at full length, with ease.
On the medium, Miss Fawcett, coming into the room, we
were all properly placed in seats, and by the aid of a large
lamp which stood on the mantle-shelf, we could see each other
distinctly. Miss Fawcett then entered the cabinet, and laid
herself down on the floor; she invited any one to go inside the
screen to see her position, and to examine the cabinet. I
accepted the offer, went in, viewed the cabinet, and then
noticed the medium; she was dressed in a black dress, with a
small white frill round her neck. On resuming my seat, we
each took hold of hands, and could hear that the spirits had
commenced to entrance their medium.
Shortly afterwards we were told to sing. After singing for
some time, a form appeared on one side of the cabinet, but it
was so faint that we could scarcely see it; however, it soon
vanished, but appeared again after the light had been put
down a little, and this time we could see it more clearly. The
spirit advanced and retired several times, until, to our joy,
the full form of some dear departed female sister glided from
the cabinet right across the room, and embraced Mr. and Mrs.
Fawcett, impressing on each an affectionate kiss, which could
be distinctly heard by all in the room. The robes of this spirit
were so white, so beautiful, and so unlike 'anything we ordi¬
narily see, as to perfection, that the appearance is difficult to
describe. After leaving Mr. and Mrs. Fawcett, the spirit
passed round the sitters, touching each, and shaking hands
with all.
I must here state that this spirit claims to be the daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Fawcett, and they receive her with that affec¬
tion which only parents can feel; and I am bound to state, in
reference to the identity of the spirit, that I was on a visit to
Mr. Fawcett’s some time ago, when I saw their daughter, who
was then in the flesh, and staying with her parents for the
good of her health. She then appeared to be fast approach¬
ing the change which we call “ death,” and she has since
passed over the Jordan. During that visit I conversed with
her, sympathised with her, and tried to console her in her
affliction, and when I saw the spirit form I felt confident that
this beautiful creature was none other than our sister friend,
with whom I had conversed before she had laid aside her
mortal tenement, to be clothed with the robes of immortal
life and bliss.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Hoy. 6, 1874.
228
The next form that appeared was so different in everything,
except the whiteness of her robe, that everyone could see at a
glance that there was no resemblance either to the medium
inside the cabinet, or to the first form which had disappeared.
The second spirit form was taller than the first, and
her robes were considerably longer ; they trailed behind her
several feet. She glided across the room with a grace and
beauty that were wonderful. She then went round the sitters,
touching each on the forehead, patting their faces, and
shaking their hands. I must here state an incident which
caused me much pain at the time, and has not quite left me
yet, when I think of it. On coming to me the spirit seemed
to gaze fully in my face, and waved her hand. This caused a
strong sensation to run through my frame. Under this feel¬
ing I dropped my neighbour’s hand to take hold of the spirit’s
hand. This broke the conditions. I was not conscious that
I was doing wrong till the spirit rather roughly pushed my
head back; it had been leaning towards her. I then felt sorry
indeed. The form at once glided to the side of the cabinet,
and wrote on paper, “ Try to keep the conditions.” However,
the good spirit whom I had so offended came back to me as if
she felt my distress. Again she gazed into my face, patted
my forehead, shook hands, and put Mrs. Fawcett’s spectacles
into my hand. She then went away, but soon returned and
put the glasses on my face with her hands as neatly as I could
have done it myself.
I then gazed at her lovely face; her countenance beamed
with brightness. I remarked that the glasses enabled me to
see her more distinctly, with her black flowing hair, which
was long and graceful. After standing for some time, she
floated away, and I could see very plainly her loose flowing
robes, so white, long, and wide, that it was not possible for
any medium to conceal such a quantity of drapery about
her person, if so disposed.
I must now describe the third figure, which appeared after
the second had gone. This figure was also different to the
rest in size and in form; her face, hands, and feet were black,
but her robes were white. During the appearance of this
Indian spirit several lively tunes were sung, and she danced
and played the tambourine in good style.
After thus cheering us for some time, she disappeared. I
may state that before taking leave of this spirit, we were
told through the medium that this Indian spirit was the
same who spoke through the mediumship of Miss Briggs, at
Cockfield.
The fourth figure which appeared afforded conclusive evi¬
dence of the genuineness of the phenomena, for while this
spirit-form—a child of tender years—glided from the cabinet
in a playful way, visible to all, Mr. Hull and I were requested
by the spirit controlling Miss Fawcett to go and see the
medium. We did so, and found her lying just as she was at
the commencement of the seance, so were quite satisfied that
all was real. Thomas Bbown.
Howden-le-Wear, Durham.
SPIRITUALISM AND THEOLOGY.
Sib,—If you refer to Isaiah viii. and the 19th verse, you
will find the following:—
“ And when they say unto you, Seek unto them that have
familiar spirits, and unto wizards that peep and that mutter:
should not a people seek unto their God ? for the living to the
dead ? ”
The writer apparently implied, by the above, that there was
a sort of Spiritualism in his day. Can you or any of your
readers enlighten me with views on the above extract ?
Thomas Wilson, M.D.
14, Savile-street, Hull, Nov. 2,1874.
SPIRITUALISM LAWFUL AND NECESSARY.
To the Editor of the Brighton Daily Mail.
Sib,—Having seen so much of late about Spiritualism in your
columns, will you allow me to say a few words about this ques¬
tion. I will try to explain how this matter has been com¬
pletely misunderstood; by some through ignorance, but by
others, I have reason to suppose, intentionally, which cer¬
tainly cannot give a high opinion of this last category.
Spiritualism is not merely assisting at dark seances, and
witnessing floating guitars, or even feeling and seeing spirit
hands, not any more than the changing of water into wine,
related in the Scriptures, at a wedding party at Cana means
Christianity. The manifestations are merely works to attract
the attention of those who really are seeking truth. It is no
“ devilry,” neither “ a fearful sinful thing,” as your corre¬
spondent “ Nemo ” calls it. Behind those spirits who are
proving, by facts, that death is but a change of garment or
body, there are higher and more developed spirits who wish to
advance humanity beyond the condition where 1800 years
of Christianity have brought us. These spirits wish to im¬
press those who have not shut their eyes systematically, that
wars, murders, and poverty ought to have been relinquished
with the former centuries. That in our day nations should
not engage in bloody battles at the command of a few ambi¬
tious people. In fact, they aim at establishing more harmony
amongst men, whilst religion has divided them in innumer¬
able sects and creeds. Their motto is, “Less dogmas, more
love! ”
What is the use of all those societies for the protection of
animals as long as the poorer class is not better cared for. One
hears so much about “ holy but where is the holiness in the
feelings of those who profess different religions ? Where is
the holiness on the battle-fields, when men who have never
seen each other are killing and murdering their fellow-
creatures as wild beasts ? Is this not much more “ devilish ”
and “ fearfully sinful ?” I leave it to your readers to draw
the conclusion. Gamma.
Palmeira-square.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Treasurer.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—Si, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa)
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
mHE TWO DISCOYERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
JL SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of jihe most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. "W. Allen, II, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial 'paper covers, 152 pp., Svo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the (path of duty: also Bthe experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplifled by this new mode.
The mathematical discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
schools.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition, price 3s.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
London :—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Ready by January 1st, 1875. Suitable for a New-Year’s Gift Book. Anew
work on
SPIRITUALISM, SCIENCE, AND CHRISTIANITY;
showing their Harmony and Relationship, land will be specially
adapted for circulation amongst members of Christian Churches. It Will
also be essentially a guide-book for enquirers, and will treat of the fol¬
lowing topics relative to the subject, in a scientific manner:—Spirit Circles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestations, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speaking and Writing Mediumship, Moral Influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Modiumship, Obsession, Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spirits,
Contradictions of Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and many other
points of interest both to Spiritualists and Enquirers. Published price,
3s. 6d.; to Subscribers, 2s.; or 12 Copies for £1 Is.
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to GkORGE Farmer, 4,
Kingsgate-street, Holborn, London, W. C.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer,
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Graiuger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained.at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c, &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Nov. 6, 1874.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
m
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIEV0YANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays exceptei.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover- square, two doors from Regent-street.
'R. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Sean'Ces
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, 'will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. - Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o'clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Oampden-hill, Kensington.
'R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
'ISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
T Y. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational speaker,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD and sibyl—magnetic healing
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico. S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture. Terms 2 guineas.
QEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
lO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK AND SADLER, Trance and Physical
Mediums, are open to Engagements for Private or Public Seances.
Terms as per arrangements. Messrs. Peck and Sadler also give Public
<S«anc«i every Monday, Tuesday, and Saturday Evenings, at Eight o’clock,
Tickets Is. each (limited number only), and Thursday evenings at Eight
o’clock, Tickets 2s. 6d. each. Tickets to be had at 157, Bute-road. Seances
at 126, Oowbridge-road, Canton, Cardiff.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. TyermAN.
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
VISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. JACKSON’S Table d'Hote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.O.
LADY COMPANION. Age not beyond 35; a
Spiritualist; a good musician (thorough); healthy, and a good
walker; good sight, as she would have to read to and walk with a gentle¬
man nearly blind. To make herself generally useful in writing letters when
required, or doing needlework, &c., &c. A comfortable home, but very
quiet. Good salary. Apply Lady Companion, 15, Southampton-row, Lon¬
don, w.o;
PENTON TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
26, PENTON-STREET, N.
EVERITT & SON desire the attention of their friends and the public
generally to the new and varied stock of Autumn and winter goods they
have just received.
Strong durable hard wearing overcoats from 35s.
Strong winter trousers from 14s 6d.
We have a large stock of fancy materials suitable for every article of
Gentlemen’s attire.
Our £2 2s. woaded black cloth frock coats and £1 black doe trousers
which have given such great satisfaction for the last twenty-flve years, are
still noted for good quality and durability.
.1 trial is respectfully solicited.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hUl, Hendon. N.W.
Filz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Ross-Church, Mrs. (FlorenceMarryat), 21, Oolville-rd.tKensingston-pk., W
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.-
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice, D.D., 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N, F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street. ’
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A., M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road,’01d Kent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmouth.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W,, and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W. ■
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres-
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. (Foreign Carres-
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tern.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg,
the Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James.Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris,
Gr. O. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 85, Leipsio
Mons. Buguet, Paris.
•a& i
m \
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
M>v. e; 1874:
THE STEAM-SHIP AND FACTORY SHAFT-CODPLING
COMPANY, LIMITED.
INCORPOKATED UNDER “ THE COMPANIES ACTS, 1862 and 1867,” WHEREBY THE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS
IS LIMITED TO THE AMOUNT OF THEIR SHARES.
CAPITAL £150,000 IN 30,000 SHARES OF £5 EACH,
Payable as follows:—ill on Application, £1 10s. on Allotment, and the Balance as required, at intervals of not
less than three months.
Directors.
Admiral Sir WM. H. HALL, K.C.B., Director of the Peninsular and Oriental Company.
Sir JOHN MURRAY, Bart., of Philiphaugh, N.B., and Reform Club.
Sir HOWARD ELPHINSTONE, Bart., F.G.S., D.C.L., 11, Waterloo Place, Pall Mall, S.W.
Admiral JOHN ALEXANDER DUNTZE, United Service Club, Pall Mall; and Woolwich Common.
W. CROOKES, Esq., F.R.S., F.C.S., 20, Mornington Road, Regent’s Park, N.W.
Captain D. MILLER, R.N., United Service Club; and 58, Hereford Road, Westbourne Grove, W.
HENRY G. TREND, Esq., Wembdon House, Petherton Road, Highbury New Park.
Managing Dieectok—Captain D. SPAIN, R.N., United Service Club, and 7, Dartmouth Park Road, Highgate Road, N.W.
Consulting Engineer—C. F. YARLEY, Esq., F.R.S., C.E.
Solicitor—R. S. GREGSON, Esq., 8, Angel Court, E.C.
Auditors—Messrs. BARNARD, CLARKE, M£LEAN, and Co., Lothbury.
Bankers.
The IMPERIAL BANK (Limited), 6, Lothbury, E.C.
The LONDON and SOUTH-WESTERN BANK, Fenchurch Street, E.C., and its Branches.
The CLYDESDALE BANKING COMPANY, Glasgow, and its Branches.
Brokers.
Messrs. C. W. PRICE and DEVOT, Bartholomew House, E.C.
GEORGE MILLER, Esq., 31, St. Vincent Place, Glasgow.
Secretary—H. AGUILAR, Esq., R.N.
Temporary Offices—29, GRESHAM STREET, BANK, LONDON; and 133, WEST GEORGE STREET, GLASGOW.
PEOSPECTUS.
This Company has been formed to supply an urgent want which has long ]
been felt by the Shipping and manufacturing interests, namely, the repair
of broken shafts at sea and in factories.
The "Engineer,” of 20th December, 1872, observes:
“ It is not a little remarkable that, notwithstanding all the ingenuity
expended on the marine engine, no one has thought of devising some
method of patching up a broken screw shaft at sea."
The invention consists of a coupling, which can be easily and expe¬
ditiously applied to fractured shafts, and which renders them as strong as
they originally were.
That such an invention was much required and will be largely taken ad¬
vantage of, cannot be doubted, for, on reference to Appendix No. 2, it will
he seen that a large percentage of vessels become disabled, and many of
them total wrecks, through the breakage of screw shafts and paddle shafts,
thus causing serious loss, both of life and property.
After the machinery of a steam vessel has broken down, it is well known
that the charges for towage, &c., are enormous, in addition to which great
losses are caused by the delay which takes place in consequence, and it is
therefore of the utmost importance that every shipowner should provide
himself with the means of enabling his vessels, in case of accident to their
shafts, to resume their course without delay.
According to the returns of the " Bureau Veritas ” (Appendix No. 3), 244
steamers of over 100 tons net register were totally lost during the year
1872, and of these unquestionably a large percentage were disabled by'
broken shafts.
The “ Glasgow Weekly Mail,” of 28th March, 1874, has the following
upon the subject:
“ Why Steamships are Lost.—Among the numbers of first-class steam¬
ships that have disappeared without leaving any record of their fate, I have
little doubt that their loss is mainly attributable to their machinery becom¬
ing disabled, and the ships unmanageable and gefting into the trough of
the sea, and from'their great length and difficulty of manoeuvre, unable to
get out; and from their rolling, and too often from the shifting of bulk
cargo, the vessel cannot right itself, and down she goes without leaving a
trace behind.—‘ Times’ Correspondent.”
The number of merchant steamers afloat in 1872 (vide Appendix No. 4)
was no less 4,335. Of these 2,538 belonged to Great Britain, and averaged
850 tons each. The number of steamers built in Great. Britain in 1873,
amounted to 460, averaging 1,167 tons each; the average dimensions in¬
creasing every year (vide Appendix No. 3), 4,335 steamers in 1872, plus 460
built in 1873, give a total of 4,795 steamers in 1873, and of about 5,250 in
1874.
In factories great numbers of hands are often thrown out of employ¬
ment for a long time by the breakage of main driviog shafts, and the loss
inflicted upon owners and men by the stoppage of a mill in consequence is
very severe. By employing one of this Company’s couplings, a fractured
shaft can be restored to work almost immediately.
It is proposed to make immediate arrangements for the manufacture of
the Company’s couplings, and the result of careful estimates of the cost of
manufacturing them, and the price for which they can readily be sold
(assuming that only 10 per cent, of the vessels afloat adopt them), is that
the annual profits will yield a handsome percentage to the shareholders on
the nominal capital.
In the estimates above referred to, no account has been taken of the
number of couplings which it is believed will be required in factories,
mines, pumping works, and other undertakings, when once the Company
is in a position to supply the demand.
An eminent naval authority, Sir James 'Anderson, formerly Commander
of the steamship Great Eastern, has written a letter (Appendix No. 5) ap¬
proving of the invention. “ The plan,’’ he observes, “ is so simple and in¬
expensive that I should expect most steamship owners will be willing to
put them on board each steamer as a valuable alternative in case of acci¬
dent to the screw-shaft.”
No promotion money, beyond the cost of advertising and registration,
will be paid by the Company.
By agreements dated the 30th day of May, 1874, and the 7th of October,
1874, respectively entered into between H. Aguilar on behalf of the Com¬
pany on the one part, and Cromwell Fleetwood Varley on the other part,
the Company have secured this valuable patent for the sum of £15,000 in
cash and £35,000 in fully paid-up shares of the Company.
Application for shares must be made, accompanied by the deposit of £1
per share, to the Secretary or Bankers of the Company. When a less
number of shares is allotted than that applied for, the balance of the de¬
posit will be applied in payment of the sum payable on allotment, and
where no allotment is made the deposit will be returned in full.
Prospectuses and Forms of Applications for Shares can be obtained from
the Brokers and Solicitors, and at the Temporary Offices of the Company,
and a model of the coupling can be seen at any time at the Offices of the
Engineer, 2, Great Winchester-street-buildings, where the fullest explana¬
tion will be given.
The well-known Patent Agents, Messrs. Carpmael and Co., have reported
upon the validity of the patent, and upon the value of the invention. The
following is an extract from their opinion:—
“ I have also caused to be examined the specifications of all prior patents,
of which the titles refer to the coupling of shafts. Nothing has been found
to affect the validity of the above-mentioned patent, nor indeed anything
relating expressly to apparatus for coupling broken propeller shafts.
“ In my opinion the patent is good and valid, and the invention appears
to me to be valuable, and well calculated to attain the object for which it is
designed.
“ WILLIAM CARPMAEL.
• “ 24, Southampton-buildings, May 23rd, 1874.”
The successful application of the coupling demonstrating clearly its
practical value has been several times shown on board the steamer Era ,'
which is still running with her shaft secured by the patent coupling.
Opinions of the Press, and a list of casualties to steamers from broke n
shafts may be had at the Offices of the Company.
Printed for the Proprietor by’BEVEBiDGE & Co., at the Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
aboye-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Aye Maria-lane London E.C.
