A F(ECOF(D Of THE PROQREff Of THE fCIEfCE >ND ETHICf OF fPJFJITUyVXJJSM.
No. 2.—Yol. I. LONDON : FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1869.
Published Fortnightly.
Pries Phreepsnee.
FARADAY’S REFUSAL TO OBSERYE FACTS.
Sir J. Emerson Tennent once wrote and invited
Faraday to be present at a seance, where Mr. Home
was the medium. Faraday wrote and demanded a pro¬
gramme of what was to take-place, and requiring Mr.
Home, who had not communicated with him, to answer
several insulting questions. As it is well known that
nobody knows beforehand what manifestations, if any,
will take place at a seance, any more than the details of
an expected star-shower can be given in advance, this
demand, apart from the insults, amounted practically to
a refusal to investigate. What would Faraday have
thought had he invited Sir E. Tennent to- witness some
new experiments, and in return been required to give a
written answer to the question—-a Would an insult to
Professor Faraday’s apparatus be considered as an insult
to himself?” Here is the letter of Michael Faraday,
which for the sake of his historical and psychological
reputation, we regret most sincerely was ever penned by
this great and good man:—
Folkestone, June 14, 1861.
Mr Hear Sir Emerson,—I cannot help feeling that
you are indiscreet in your desire to bring me into con¬
tact with the occult phenomena which it is said are made
manifest in Mr. Home’s presence. I have investigated
such in former times, during- some years, and as much
as I thought consistent with the self-respect that. an
experimental philosopher owes to himself. It would be
a condescension on my part to pay any more attention
to them now ; and I can only do so under the persua¬
sion that all concerned wish to have the phenomena un¬
ravelled and understood, and will do all they can to aid
in such a result. To settle whether I can go or not, I
wish to put to you t]ie following points :—
1> Who wishes me to go ?—:to whose house ?—for
what purpose?-;
Hoes Mr. Home wish me to ?
3. 5Ish,e willing to investigate as philosopher, and
hs such *,to,-have no concealments, no darkness, to be
to -aid inquiry all he can ?
^cos. he'i||ak6' hh^aelf responsible for the effects,
on less with their cause?
,' W.bul,4 gra3 If their delusive character were
«Ita^i|hted'an^e^p'o^ed^and weuld he gladly help to expose
itfoifypoiiid lie be anttqyed and personally offended ?
’ * 6. Hpes'FLe'CidriSi^.feHhe,.effects natural or' supernatural ?
Tf’natural, what' are the laws which govern them?- or
does be think they are not subject to laws ? If super-
ffathraly does he i suppose them to be miracles or ,the
work of spirits? .If the work of spirits, woiild an in¬
sult to the spirits be considered an insult to himself?
Mpi If the effects are miracles, or the work of spirits,
does he admit the utterly contemptible character, both
of them : and their results, up to the present time, in re¬
spect either of yielding imformation or instruction, or sup¬
plying any .force or action of the least value to mankind ?
• 8.' If they be natural effects without natural law, can
they be of any use or value to mankind?
9. If they be the glimpses of natural action not yet
reduced to law, ought it not to be the duty of every one
who has the least influence in such actions personally
to develop them, and aid others in their development by
the utmost openness and assistance, and by the applica¬
tion of every critical method, either mental or experi¬
mental, which the mind of man can devise ?*
I do not wish to give offence to any one, or to meddle
with this subject again. I lost much time about it
formerly, in hopes of developing some new force or
power; but found nothing worthy of attention. lean
only look at it now as a natural philosopher; and, be¬
cause of the respect due to myself, will not enter upon
any further attention or investigation unless those who
profess to have’ a hold upon the effects agree to aid to
the uttermost. To this purpose they must consent (and
desire) to be as critical upon the matter and full of test
investigation in regard to the subject, as any natural
philosopher is in respect of the germs of his discoveries.
How could electricity, that universal spirit of matter,
ever have been developed in its relations to chemical
(action, to magnetic action, to its application in the ex¬
plosion , of mines, the weaving of silk, the extension of
electro-telegraph, the illumination of
&c., except by rigid investigation,
the strictest critical reasoning and the
and this is why Faraday was asked to aid in
printing, the
light-houses,
grounded on
* Most decidedly “ Yes,
doing so.—Ed.
most exact and open experiment? and if these so-
called occult manifestations are not utterly worthless
they must and will pass through a like ordeal.
As I do notwant to debate this matter with those who
have already made up their minds in a direction contrary
to my own, but (if I see sufficient reason) only to work
it out with such a desire to find incontrovertible proofs
independent of opinion or assertion, so I wish you
would show this letter to Mr. Home, and those who
want me to meet him and them on his ground; after
which you will know whether you should persevere in
asking me. You will understand that I decline to meet
any whose minds are not at liberty to investigate accord¬
ing to the general principles I have here expressed.
Further,, I claim the right of publishing the whole
or any part of this letter, or any further written com¬
munication that may arise out of it, in any manner
that I may think fit.—Ever, my dear Sir Emerson,
your very faithful servant, M. Faraday.
You will see that I consent to all this with much
reserve, and only for your sake.—M. F.
SPIRIT-RAPPING IN JOHN WESLEY’S FAMILY.
IN TEN PARTS.—PART TWO.
The first document which We reprint about the
physical manifestations which took place in John
Wesley’s family, is the diary written by his eldest
brother, Mr. Samuel Wesley. The disturbances took
place in his parsonage house at Epworth, Lincolnshire,
in December and January, 1716. The following are
his words :—
“ From the first of December, my children and 'ser¬
vants heard many strange noises, groans, knockings,
&c., in every story, and most of the rooms of my house.
But I hearing nothing of it myself, they would not tell
me for some time, because, according to the vulgar
opinion, if it boded any ill to me, I could not hear it.
When it increased, and the family could not easily con¬
ceal it, they told me of it.
“ My daughters, Susannah and Ann, were below
stairs in the dining-room; and, heard, first at the
doors, then over their heads, and the night after, a
knocking under their feet, though nobody was in the
chambers or below them. The like they and my ser¬
vants heard in both the kitchens, at the door against
the partition, and over) them. The maid-servant heard
groans as of a dying-man. My daughter Emilia, com¬
ing downstairs'to draw up the clock and lock-the doors
at ten , at. night as, Jisual^ heard under the staircase, ,a.
sound among Some bottles1 there,' as if they had bteen
all dashed to pieces) .but when she looked, all was safe.
“ Something .like the steps of a man was heard going
up and downstairs, at all hours of the night, and vast
rumblings below stairs, and in the garrets. My man,
who lay in the garret, heard some one come slaring
through the garret to his chamber, rattling by his side,
as if against his shoes,- though he had none there; at
other times walking up and downstairs, when all the
house were in bed, and gobbling like a turkey-cock.
Noises were heard in the nursery, and all the other
chambers; knocking first at the feet of the bed and
behind it; and a sound like that of dancing in a
matted chamber, next the nursery, when the door was
locked, and nobody in it.
“ My wife would have persuaded them it was rats
within doors, and some unlucky people knocking with¬
out; till at last we heard several loud knocks in our
own chamber, on my side of the bed; but till, I
think, the 21st at night, I heard nothing of it. That
night I was waked a little before one by nine distinct
very loud knocks, which seemed to be in the next room
to ours, with a sort of a pause at every third stroke. I
thought it might be somebody without the house; and hav¬
ing got a stout mastiff, hoped he would soon rid me of it.
“ The next night I heard six knocks, but not so loud
as the former. I know not whether it was in the
morning after Sunday the 23rd, when about seven my
daughter Emily called her mother into the nursery, and
told her she might now hear the noises there. She went
in, and heard it at the bedstead, then under the bed,
then at the head of it. She knocked, and it answered
her. She looked under the bed, and thought something
ran from thence, but could not well tell of what shape,
but thought it most like a badger.
“The next night but one we were awaked about one
by the noises, which were so violent, it was in vain to
think of sleep while they continued. I rose, and my
wife would rise with me. TYe went into every cham¬
ber, and downstairs; and generally as we went into
one room we heard it in that behind us, though all the
family had been in bed several hours. "When we were
going downstairs, and at the bottom of them, we heard,
as Emily had done before, a clashing among the bottles,
as if they had been all broke to pieces," and another
sound distinct from it, as if a peck of money had been
thrown down before us. The same, three of my daugh¬
ters heard at another time.
“ We went through the hall into the kitchen, when
our mastiff came whining to us, as he did always after
the first night of its coming; for then he barked vio¬
lently at it, but was silent afterwards, and seemed more
afraid than any of the children. We still heard it
rattle and thunder in every room above or behind us,
locked as well as open, except my study, where as yet
it never came. After two, we went to bed, and were
pretty quiet the rest of the night.-
“ Wednesday night, December 26, after or a little
before ten, my daughter Emilia heard the signal of its
beginning to play, with which she was perfectly. ac¬
quainted ; it was like the strong winding-up of a jack.
She called us; and I went into the nursery, where it
used to be most violent. The rest of the children were,
asleep. It began with knocking in the kitchen under¬
neath, then seemed to be at the bed’s feet, then under
the bed, at last at the head of it. I went downstairs,
and knocked with my stick against the joists of the
kitchen. It answered me as often and as loud as I
knocked; but then I knocked as I usually do at my
door, 1—2 345 6—7; but this puzzled it, and it did not
answer, or not in the same method ; though the chil¬
dren heard it do the same exactly twice or thrice after.
“ I went upstairs, and found it still knocking hard,
though with some respite, sometimes under the bed,
sometimes at the bed’s head. I observed my children
that they were frighted in their sleep and trembled very
much till it waked them. I stayed there alone, bid
them go to sleep, and sat at the bed’s feet by them,
when-the noise began again. I asked it what it was,
and why it disturbed innocent children^ and did not
come to me in my study, if it had anything to say to
me. Soon ..after it gave one knock on the outside of the
house (all the rest were within), and knocked off for
that night.
“I went out of doors, sometimes, alone, at others with
company, and walked round the house, but-Could see or
;KeaYnCuiinfr'-v-Sf?¥era-l’nights, the latch- o£-<wy-lf>dp-ing-
chamber would be. lifted up very often,. whenj all-. were,
in. bed. One night, when the .noise was grea)t" in.the,
kitchen, and on a . deal .partition, and the door in the.
yard, the latcF whereof was ’often lifted up, my daughter.
Emilia went and held it fast on the inside ; but it was
still lifted up, and the door pushed violently against
her, though nothing was to be seen on the. outside. ,
“ When we were at prayers, and came.to the prayers
for King George and the Prince, it would make a great
noise over our heads constantly, whence-some of the
family called it a Jacobite. I have been thrice pushed
by an invisible power, once against the corner of my
desk in the study, a second time against,the door of the
matted chamber, a third time against, the right side of
the frame of my study door, as I was'going in.
“ I followed the noise into almost, every room in the
house, both by day and by night, with lights and with¬
out, and have sat alone for some time, -and when I
heard the noise, spoke to it to tell me what it was, but
never heard any articulate voice, and only once or twice
two or three feeble squeaks, a little louder than the
chirping of a bird ; but not like the noise of rats, which
I have often heard.
I had designed on Friday, December 28th, to make
a visit to a friend, Mr. Downs, at Normandy, and stay
some days with him ; but the noises were so boisterous
on Thursday night, that I did not care to leave my
family. So I went to Mr. Hoole, of Haxey, and desired
his company on Friday night. He came ; and it began
after ten, a little later than ordinary. The younger
children were gone to bed, the rest of the family and
Mr. Hoole were together in the matted chamber, I
sent the servants down to fetch in some fuel, went with
them, and staid in the kitchen till they came in. When
they were gone, I heard loud noises against the doors
10
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Dec. 3, 1869.
and partition ; and at length the usual signal, though
somewhat after the time. I had never heard it before,
but knew it by the description my daughter had given me.
It was much like the turning about of a windmill when
the wind changes. When the servants returned, I went
up to the company, who had heard the other noises
below, but not the signal. We heard all the knocking
as usual, from one chamber to another, but at its going
off, like the rubbing of a beast against the wall. From
that time till January the 24th we were quiet.
“ Having received a letter from Samuel the day be¬
fore relating to it, I read what I had written of it to my
family; and this day at morning prayer the family
heard the usual knocks at the prayer for the king. At
night they were more distinct, both in the prayer for
the king, and that for the prince: and one very loud
knock at the awen was heard by my wife, and most of
my children, at the inside of my bed. 1 heard nothing
myself. After nine, Eobert Brown sitting alone by the
fire in the back kitchen, something came out of the
copper-hole like a rabbit, but less, and turned round
five times very swiftly. Its ears lay flat upon its neck,
and its little scut stood straight up. He ran after it
with the tongs in his hands ; but when he could find
nothing, he was frighted, and went to the maid in the
parlour.
“ On Friday, the 25th, having prayers at church, I
shortened, as usual, those in the family at morning,
■omitting the confession, absolution, and prayers for the
king and prince. I observed, when this is done, there
is no knocking. I therefore used them one morning
for a trial; at the name of king George it began to
knock, and did the same when I prayed for the prince.
Two knocks I heard, but took no notice after prayers,
till after all who were in the room, ten persons besides
me, spoke of it, and said they heard it. No noise at
all the rest of the prayers.
. Sunday, January 27. Two soft strokes at the morn¬
ing prayers for king George, above stairs.
Addenda.
“Friday, December 21. Knocking I heard first, I
think, this night; to which disturbances, I hope, God
will in His good time put an end.
“ Sunday, December 23. Not much disturbed with
the noises, that are now grown customary to me.
“ Wednesday, December 26. Sat up to hear noises.
Strange ! spoke to it, knocked off.
“ Friday 28. The noises very boisterous and dis¬
turbing this night.
“ Saturday 29. Not frighted with the continued
disturbance of my family.
“ Tuesday, January 1, 1717. My family have had
no disturbance since I went.”
KEICHENBACH AT A SPIRIT CIRCLE.
In the new work on Spiritualism, The Planchette, by
Epes Sargent, are the following statements about
Baron Reicheiibach:—
“ At first distrustful of the spiritual significance of
certain phenomena, Reichenbacb, if we may believe
Mr. D. Hornung, of Berlin, now entertains views not
opposed to Spiritualism. While in London in 1861, at
the residence of Mr. Cowper, son-in-law of Lord
Palmerston, he attended a spiritual circle.
“ ‘ On that occasion,’ says Mr. Hornung, 4 two
media, Mrs. Marshall and her niece, were present, who
did not understand a word of German. Reichenbach
therefore, after the rapping had commenced, put his
questions intentionally in German; and they were
answered correctly by raps on the table, and he had the
names of several members of his family correctly given.
In regard to one name, however, he began to doubt the
capacity of the table to give it; the name to be spelled
being ‘ Fredericke,’ while it spelled the letters ‘ R. I.’
But when the name ,‘RICKE’ was completed, the
baron was much surprised, as his sister had been wont
to be called ‘ Ricke.’ ”
“Now comes the most remarkable part of the per¬
formance, and I give it in the Baron’s own words. He
says, ‘ The answers were rapped by the foot of the
table in a brightly lighted room. I wished to ascertain
whether the rapping could not be prevented, and for
this purpose I leaned with my breast against one of the
feet of the table, taking hold of two others with both
hands, and pressing them down. The rapping of the
feet ceased; but the rapping continued above me, on
the top of the table. All at once, by a sudden jerk,
the table dragged me forward, with the carpet on which
it stood ; and I lay prostrate in the middle of the room.’
“ This experiment convinced the baron that, besides
the emanation of the odic element, higher spiritual
powers can manifest themselves; and these he now no
longer ignores, but recognizes them as facts of
experience, for which, however, be as yet knows no
explanation.’ He regards ‘ the great influences of od
upon the human spirit ’ as the mere ‘ physical side of
the matter,’—‘ the roots by which it adheres firmly to
the ground;’ and he is thankful to see the day when all
his former discoveries show themselves as the portal
through which it is possible for him ‘ to go forward into
the spiritual department.’ ”
Sports of iilmmgs.
EAST LONDON ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
On Tuesday evening, Not. 16th, Mr. John Jones, of Ehtnore-
park, South Norwood, gave a lecture in connection with the
East London Association of Spiritualists, at the Stepney
Temperance Hall, Mile-end-road, E. It was the same lecture
as the one given in Clerkenwell, and reported in the last
number of The Spiritualist, but he stated a few additional
facts. He said that once in his own family, he had had a
prescription written out by spirit agency, which prescription
was taken to a chemist, who pronounced it to be all right,
and made it up for the invalid accordingly. He stated as
a curious fact, that neither Mr. nor Mrs. S. C. Hall could
singly get spirit writing by the aid of the planchette, but
when the former placed his hand over that of Mrs. S. C.
Hall, the most exalted sentences were written out. The Bib¬
lical narrative that an angel opened the doors of the prison
where Peter lay, showed that in ancient times the spirits could
move solid objects. He knew of a case where the spirits
had predicted beforehand the time and the details of a certain
event, and the prophesy' proved true.
There was a large attendance at this lecture, numbers
being unable to obtain admission.
Mr. James Burns gave a lecture at the same place on
Thursday, Nov. 25. the subject being “ The Evidences of
Spiritualism.”
Mr. S. E. Goss lectured last Tuesday at a meeting of the
Association, on “ The Harmonial Philosophy of Spiritualism.”
In highly poetical phraseology, he described some of
the teachings of a large section of the American Spi¬
ritualists, headed by Andrew Jackson Davis. The sub¬
stance of the lecture was to the effect that Spiritualism
teaches that it is a duty in every way to perfect the body,
mind, and reasoning faculties, and to remove all obstacles to
such development. He said that one great obstacle is the
accumulation by unjust laws of the wealth produced by
labour, into the hands of those who labour not, so that the
great bulk of the population live on earth in never-ending toil
and suffering, while others live in idleness and selfishness
upon the wealth produced by their labour. These privations
have the effect also of causing the industrious classes to prey
upon each other. This philosophy teaches man to remove
such evils and to perfect his body; also it teaches him to per¬
fect his mind, more especially the reasoning faculties. It is a
deadly foe to priestcraft of every kind—to men who employ
reason to teach their followers that reason may not be trusted.
His own preacher was reason, the flower of the spirit, and his
temple the wide universe on which God has written His
eternal laws. He said that the great reformers of all ages,
always met with opposition from those who had the bulk of
the people under control, and use them to serve their own ends.
The Preacher of the Sermon on the Mount was crucified be¬
cause His doctrines were anti-Moses ; Martin Luther was pro¬
nounced anti-Christ because he helped to free people some¬
what from the power of the Roman Catholic Church, and
similar denunciations were hurled by all sectarians at geology
and astronomy, because they found no place in the universe
for a hell of fire and brimstone, and proved that the world
turned round, also that it was but one little world out of
millions of others. Sectarianism, he said, teaches eternal
punishment, which Spiritualism does not. Sectarianism
teaches that wars come from God, whilst Spiritualism teaches
that they came from man’s bad education and misdirection.
Spiritualism teaches also that man and woman are equal, and
that the one is at present unjustly placed in a worse position
on earth than the other. Sectarianism hates philosophy and
science, whilst Spiritualism receives these noble gifts of intelli¬
gence with open arms. Spirits in prison are those who dare
not think for themselves, and who are kept in subjection by a
gloomy fear of the death, and of the world beyond. Spirit¬
ualism removes all this, and proves that the art of commui-
cating with the higher world has not been lost, although penal
laws were passed in the early days of English history, to kill
out such communication on the part of the general public.
In the course of the lecture the words “ electricity ” and
“ magnetism ” were often misapplied to unknown spiritual
forces.
Mr. W. Cresswell proposed a vote of thanks to the lecturer,
and added that Spiritualism was gaining ground in East
London, in evidence of which a quiet peaceable evening had
just been passed, whereas a few years ago they were mobbed
and interrupted at such gatherings. He said that the St.
John’s Association of Spiritualists was an offshoot from the
East London Association.
Mr. Lambert seconded the vote of thanks, and the pro¬
ceedings closed.
THE DIALECTICAL SOCIETY.
At a recent meeting of the Dialectical Society, Mr. Holy-
oake was present, and made a long speech attacking Spiritual
phenomena, which speech is published in the Spiritual Maga¬
zine of last Tuesday. At the next meeting a gentleman
made a speech in reply, and he has sent ns the following copy
of it, accompanied by the request that the initials of his name
only be attached thereto :—
Mr. J. S. B., a member, said—“ One would have thought the
histories of some of the greatest of modern discoveries would
have prevented a man like Mr. Holyoake from casting a slur
on a subject because ‘ it had not arrived at either dignity or
decency in its procedure, nor certitude in its results.’ I have
a story to tell of a discovery which at its birth was, to use Mr.
Holyoake’s own words, undignified, indecent and uncertain, yet
which has proved to be one of the greatest blessings of modem
days. An old woman sat cooking her husband’s dinner, it
consisted of dead frogs’ hind legs, a pair of these legs jumped,
she told her husband, but he, unbeliever as he was, tried his
own conditions, put the legs in a plate, watched for hours and
never got a single jump. Weary of this and hearing that with
more willing inquirers his wife was more successful, he gave
in, and after several watchings, at the kitchen dresser,
midst knives and spoons, he succeeded in seeing a jump,
with a lot of witnesses. He goes before a society (I forget its
name, we’ll call it the Old Dialectical), and is there told by
a Mr. Holyoake sen., that his wife and his maid’s mental capa¬
cities and attainments must first be ascertained before their
evidence can be taken, and as for himself he must be mooney-
minded, otherwise how could he believe that a dead frog’s legs
could move when dead legs never moved before ? He asks for
investigation and is told by the same Mr. H. that he must
accept certain conditions, and adds Mr. H. ‘ I have been pre¬
sent at some of these experiments and I saw how it was done,
the frog was touched—I mean shoved—with a steel knife. Sir,
your phenomena have not attained either dignity or decency in
their procedureor any certitude in their results, but if you will
have it then you must accept my conditions ; I will not enter
your kitchen, I have been there three times, and have seen
nothing ; a scientific man, sure of his results, would give me
light; here, sir, under this gaslight’s glare I place a plate, no
spoons, no knives; I will not have your frogs— I have one
that has been dead six weeks, try him; or stay, I’ll tell you
what will satisfy me—if by your process, or any other, I care
not what it is, you do what I wish, you make a dead man
walk, you make my grandmother come in here then—I don’t
say I’ll believe you, but I’ll pay you very proper respect. But
really, sir, it is impossible to look at those remnants of zoology
—that old woman, and that dead frog, and believe that they
are heralds of a new blessing to man : there never were two
more unlikely philosophers than your wife and the hind legs
of a frog. To tell you the truth I am unfriendly to the entire
theory that dead legs might possibly be made to move by a
new dodge : the dead are better where they are, and it would
hurt me to think that my legs might some day be made to
dance a horizontal jig to the tune of some tbeery student.’
What would Galvani have said to Mr. Holyoake ? Poor
Galvani 1 Not having yet discovered the exact conditions,
but feeling sure he was dealing with a new force, to have such
arguments hurled at his head, and then upon asking for
further investigation, to be told by a rising, perhaps risen
engineer, of the Quelchian school, ‘ Have we not something
better to occupy ourselves with ? The jumping of kettle-lids,
the rubbing of amber, the flying of kites, the idiotic uncertain
movements of frog’s hind quarters, are nice amusements for
women and children ; but we who have humanity’s welfare at
heart have better and more practical things to study; take
for example the means of transporting our bodies more
rapidly, and our thoughts and wishes less tardily than by a
stage-coach.’ Now all that has been said against an inquiry
into any phenomena, even those called spiritual, has in effect
been said against every discovery, and these discoveries
obtained and mastered, not by dint of dialectic argument, but
by careful and constant observation,, have given their oppo¬
nents the lie. The undignified, indecent, uncertain frog phe¬
nomenon, heralded in by very unlikely philosophers, has given
us the greatest of modern marvels, the galvanic battery, and
hence the electric telegraph. Having said as much in Mr.
Holyoake's own language, let us be serious, and see whether
his suggestions are worth any more than his observations.
To teach, one should at least know the lesson oneself, but in
pretending to give laws for investigating unknown phe¬
nomena, Mr. Holyoake has shown his utter ignorance
of any scientific investigation. There can be no laws,
the process is a tentative one. Taking as an example the
frog’s legs, not knowing what produced the movement, we
should have to wait patiently till constant experiments and
good luck gave us an opportunity of seeing the movement, we
should then, if we conformed to every possible condition, aye,
even the position of a spoon, perhaps get another movement,
and then by repeated trials we might—there is no certainty
in it—have the good fortune to hit upon the cause. Every
scientific man has some story to tell how by accident he hit
upon the cause of a phenomenon that had been bothering him
for years. And this I take it, is what the sub-committees
should do; obey every condition, no matter what, get the
phenomena at any price, and by tentative processes—argu¬
ments are useless—they may arrive at something, they may
possibly arrive at what produces them, or at any rate what
conduces to their production. And here I will remind you of
what you have heard before i.e., the way in which Mr. Yarley
(a strictly scientific man) made one of his experiments with
reference to this subject. A gentleman, a Mr. Pears, made at
the last meeting the unwarranted statement that Mr. Yarley
had not tested the phenomena scientifically, and absurdly
wished to know whether he had tried them in the same way
he would electricity ! Mr. Yarley’s experiment was this. At
a seance one of his coat tails happened to move ; he won¬
dered whether the other would move, at that moment it did
so. This looked like coincidence; he tested for it by thinking
of his collar-flaps—first one side, then the other, then both,
and so dodging about till he was satisfied that it was no
coincidence, but that in reality his mind had something to do
with the phenomenon, and consequently that intelligence was
an element in the conditions. And here I must pause, for this
is very important; for if the mind has something to do with
the phenomena, the state of the mind may have also something
to do with them, consequently it is not so very unreasonable
to be told that your mind must not be in too actively oppos¬
ing a state. Imagine a man disbelieving the possibility of
getting communications from his brother by telegraph across
the Atlantic, going to the instrument room at Yalentia with
a magnet in his pocket, and saying to the electrician, ‘ Now
then, if there is anything in it, ask my brother to tell you
what his wife’s name is.’ The message is sent, and instead of
an answer, the instrument is out of range. The electrician
declares there is something wrong in the conditions, he can’t
tell what, to the intense delight of the sceptic. At last he
asks, ‘ Have you a magnet about you ? ’ 1 What has that to do
with you ? I’ve come to test, not to be examined. Well, I’ll
tell you I have a magnet.’ {Then I can’t get an answer. Will
you please to put an armature on ? ’ ‘ Not I; I want an answer,
and you can’t give it me ; you say the magnet interferes. I
tell you I can’t see what my magnet can have to do with my
brother in New York, especially as it is in a brass box, so you
must be a humbug.’* No sooner is the sceptic out of the room
than the answer begins to come, he is shouted after, and told
that it is coming ; but he only waits to say, ‘ Of course it does
when my back is turned,’ and goes away as ignorant as he
was before, while a compliance with the conditions, a mere
putting on of the armature, would have shown him what he
professed he wished to see. This example speaks, I think, for
itself. Then, as to taking evidence, I would say to the sub¬
committees, no matter how Mr. Holyoake or anybody else may
laugh, proceed with your examinations. Mental attainments
have nothing to do with the observation of facts ; Mr. Holy¬
oake says so himself. He says jugglers do not like children,
not on account of their mental capacities, but their power of
observing facts. If a sailor were to tell a naturalist of a new
fact—that he had seen a fish fly, he had seen it hundreds of
times, but could not believe it till he caught the fish in the
act—what would you think of your philosopher, if he told
you that he would not listen to the man because his
mental attainments were below par, and because he was'
unacquainted with the breathing apparatus of the fish.
Facts remain facts whether they are comprehensible or not
and what in the name of wisdom is there that is comprehensible
* Messages by the Atlantic Telegraph are read off by means of Professor
Sir 'William Thomson’s reflecting galvanometer, an instrument so sensitive
that a strong magnet in the room 'will disturb its indications.—Ed.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
11
Dec. 3, 1869.
to the most scientific, the most highly cultivated ? One more
point and I have done. Mr. Holyoake’s logic is at fault. In
what people choose to call the natv/ral, a scientific man will
tell you and tell you truly, given precisely the same conditions
precisely the same results will follow ; if then you find
that the same conditions give different results or do not pro¬
duce the same results, then either your phenomena are not
natural, ozyour conditions simply conduce to the production of
the phenomena, another necessary element being an independ¬
ent intelligence or what Mr. Holyoake would call supernatural.
Thus his very slur ‘ uncertain ’ is the best argument he could
use to prove that provided the phenomena occur at all, they
are not bound by mere material conditions and are in reality
—according to his views—supernatural. It is useless fighting
against facts, it is useless to dislike them, and we must take
the world as it is and not think we can fight with destiny by
hiding our heads, like the silly ostrich, in the sand. If such
things be, let us hear them, let us seek for them. Knowledge
is power, and may help us, and it can be but blind prejudice
and ignorance that cry out to wisdom ‘ What have we to do
with thee, hast thou come hither to torment us before the
time ? ’ ”
A LECTURE ON WITCHCRAFT.
On Tuesday evening, November 23rd, the Rev. W. Brock,
D.D., lectured at Mr. Spurgeon’s Tabernacle upon “ The
Witchcraft of the Seventeenth Century.” Mr. Charles Gilpin,
M.P., presided. About five hundred persons were present.
Mr. Charlesworth began the proceedings with prayer, after
which
Mr. Chables Gilpin, M.P., said that_ he knew nothing
about witchcraft, so would leave that subject to the lecturer.
The proceeds of the lecture were to go to the support of the
Stockwell Orphan Home, founded by Mr. Spurgeon. This
Home now contains 110 boys, by Christmas the number will
probably be 150, and before long 250 are expected to be
within its walls. It is a good institution, and he hoped soon
to see a similar one established for girls. Although he knew
nothing about witchcraft, he would, before sitting down, nar¬
rate a supernatural adventure which once befell George Fox.
George Fox was once travelling, leather breeches and all,
through a rural district, and stopped at a country inn where
he wanted to rest for the night, but was told that all the beds
were taken, and that there was no room for travelling
preachers. After some parley with,the landlady, she told him
that he might have the “ haunted room ” if he liked, as
nobody else would sleep in it. ■“ Give me a dry bed,” said the
sturdy Quaker, “ and I’ll take my chance of everything else.”
When in bed he soon went to sleep, but was awakened by a
deep-toned voice saying, to him, “ Thou art of the devil.”
Friend George looked round, but could see nothing, and he
replied, “ Thou art a liar, for I feel that within me at this
moment which’ tells me that I am out of the power of the
devil.” Next day an ostler confessed that in order to get a
good bed himself, he had been in the habit of haunting the
room given to George Fox.
Mr. W. Bbock, D.D., a Baptist minister, said that he be¬
lieved in evil spirits, because the Scriptures state that there
are such beings, not as a figure of speech, but as a statement
of fact. The Bible also says expressly that there are such
persons as wizards and witches, most of whom seem to have
been individuals who pretended to possess supernatural powers.
Whether;ythey really possessed such powers or not, he could
not say.; in the case of the witch of Endor, it may be that
God permitted the spirit to appear while the necromancer
V®fe-ya.t. work. The witchcraft of the seventeenth century in
.England was a very different thing, and its hjstory is little
else than a narrative of cruelty and fraud. King James I.
wrote a book on the subject, recommending that witches
should be seized at once, and put to death. The suspected
persons were believed to have sold their souls to the devil, in
return for which he gave them the power to sink ships, raise
storms, and to cause men and animals to fall sick; the witches
were mostly old women. One of the bishops declared before
the monarch that he had seen people rotting away because of
the mutterings of one particular witch. Statesmen, judges,
and learned men were in that age firm believers in witchcraft,
and a race of witchfinders quickly sprung up. The chief
witchfinder was an impudent scoundrel of the name of
Matthew Hopkins, who called himself “ Witchfinder General,”
and undertook to pick out witches anywhere for a moderate
fee. He travelled in state with a large retinue of servants,
he was paid for every witch he found, and sometimes he would
contract to do a whole town for a certain sum. (Laughter.)
He was officially employed by the British Parliament.
(Laughter.) When he reached a town, his plan of action was
to ask if any persons were suspected. The reply of course
being “yes,” he then ordered the suspected persons to be
brought before him, and he told them that about their persons
he had no doubt that he should find warts or moles, or some
other symptoms of their being witches. When these signs of
guilt were discovered about an old woman, further proof was
sought; she was made to sit tied to a stool in the middle of
a room, for twenty-four hours at least, without food, during
which time it was supposed that her imps would come to see
her, and be detected by Hopkins. Hopkins not only said
that he saw them, but he had the impudence to make rough
drawings of them, and to write their names beneath. If he
did not see imps, she was made to run up and down the room
till she was ready to die with fatigue, Hopkins all the time
uttering adjurations such as, “ Oh, my darling Firebrand, I
shall find it out at last.” Then came the water trial, the mob
with Hopkins at their head carrying the victim, who was tied
round the middle with a rope, and thrown into the river. If
she was guilty she floated, and if innocent , she sank. King
James wrote learnedly on the efficacy of this test. He said
that by making a league with the devil she had rejected the
water of her baptism, so that when she is thrown into the
river, the water, if she be guilty, in its turn rejects her.
Hopkins could always get a verdict of guilty when he wanted.
There were several other witchfinders, and one in the North
of England effected the conviction of 250 witches, at £3 each.
The lecturer then narrated many horrible examples of persons,
principally women, who, on the worst of evidence, lost their
lives for witchcraft. Most of them were hanged, but a few
were burnt. Jane Brooks and others were hanged at Hun¬
tingdon on a charge of making a wax figure of young
Throgmorton, sticking it full of pins, and melting it before a
fire ; the consequence was that “ young Throgmorton ” pined
away till the necromancers were hanged, and the proceeds of
the sale of their property handed over to the parson at Hun¬
tingdon, on condition that he should preach a sermon against
witchcraft once a year for ever. The lecturer also narrated
analogous cases, which were tried at Castle Carey, Lowestoft,
and Taunton. He stated that within the limit1 of a very few
years 3,192 persons were put to death for witchcraft in England
alone, and that one of these executions took place as late as
the year 1786. He said that in many English agricultural
districts the belief in witchcraft and the “ evil eye ” is still
prevalent, for he knew places in Devonshire where it still
lingers. When juries began to give damages against witch¬
finders who were prosecuted in their turn, the gentry rapidly
grew scarce, and Mr. Matthew Hopkins was himself at last
seized by an angry mob, and drowned in the dirty water of a
pond at Manningtree—the water did not reject him. In these
days, said Mr. Brock, his hearers need not fear wizards,
witches, conjurors, nor the greatest rogues, impostors, and
mountebanks of all, namely—the Spiritualists. (Applause.)
They would be protected from all evil by following the Divine
command, jj Watch and pray.”
The proceedings closed with the usqal votes of thanks and
prayer.
j&etospaper &tee.
UNTRUTH FORM THE “DAILY NEWS.”
The following is a leading article from the Daily News of
Friday last:—
“We published the other day a letter from a correspondent
respecting an advertisement for haunted-houses, which was
i understood to have been connected with investigations con¬
cerning spirit-rapping. Since then we have been favoured
with the sight of a new organ, established to spread the
doctrines of the believers in ghosts. The fact is that for the
last few years — for the last three years especially — Spiri¬
tualism, or, as we should prefer to call it, Spiritism, has been
gaining considerable ground in London. It was first taken
up as a fashionable excitement by ladies of the Mrs. Leo
Hunter type. These good matrons, having their Wednesdays
or their Fridays with tea and foreign lions, were suddenly
made acquainted with the methods of conversing with de¬
parted friends. They attended a few seances at the houses of
professional mediums, and were more than satisfied with what
they saw and heard. From that time forward they devoted
themselves and their guests to the invocation of what Johnson
termed shadowy beings. A sort of rivalry was got up amongst
them on the score of the character of the demonstrations. To
secure a good medium was the first object. This medium was
supposed to act as a sort of decoy duck; he or she did nothing,
and yet it was according to the powers of attraction resident
in the lady or gentleman that the chairs and the tables became
audible in their revelations. Hence a new branch of business
arose. Mediums were imported from America, and our own
city of course soon began to furnish persons of the same
quality. The market, however, has not yet been overcrowded,
for we read£in the journal before us ‘ that good physical media
are much wanted in Glasgow.’ By good * physical media | is
understood persons in whose vicinity the spirits are numerous,
communicative, many-sided, and brisk. Your inferior five
shilling medium has only a limited stock of ‘ phenomena ’ at
his back. The ghosts may rap for him, may even trace lines
upon his bare arm, and jog the dining-table a little, but that
is the most you can expect, whereas the good physical media
(such as are now required for the Scotch in Glasgow) can send
the upholstery into fits, and in a dark room cause the spirits
to manifest themselves by thumping some of the company on
the head.
“ It will startle our readers to learn that there are nearly four
millions of believers in this creed in America, for those who
imagine the vain things of this gross superstition, are already
claiming for it a prebtedence of Christianity. The paper from
which we derive our information contains messages of spirit
doctrine, not only shocking to religious feeling,* but revolting
to common sense. These revelations took place under the
auspices of a decidedly superlative medium; and we hear of
a table defining the attributes of the Almighty (‘ at each
letter of the name of God a tremulous motion of the table
was perceptible ’), followed by a tune on the accordion, the
joint production of the medium and a spirit. The recorder of
these marvels thinks it necessary to state, ‘We were all per¬
fectly soberand so rigid was he in his determination to
remain in a clear state of mind throughout the evening, that
he refused a cup of coffee, which suggests that he entertained
an unworthy suspicion of his host. It should be known that
there are several places of meeting now established by the
spiritists iu the metropolis. It is from these that the media
are taken, who afterwards perform before the aristocracy.
For instance, there is the ‘ St. John’s Association of Spi¬
ritualists.’ Here a lecture was delivered on the 4th of
November by a gentleman who was sadly serious in his folly.
He has lost a number of children by death, and he seeks
his consolation in this grotesque nonsense. It is very pain¬
ful to read such a lecture, and note the misdirected earnest¬
ness, and the dogged obstinate sincerity leading to the lowest
depths of credulity.
I We might fairly ask the few gentlemen of talent 'whose
names are used as baits to catch disciples for Spiritism, to
take a serious view of the situation. Spiritism throws weak
souls into a desolate confusion, from which there is no
relief, but in constant draughts from the same treacherous
cup, to keep up the intoxication of fancy to which the whole
mind is abandoned. It may not effect all this amongst
students of psychology, who are never happier than when
examining morbid human pathology, with a cruel craving
for another intellectual sensation ; but they should have
mercy on their weaker brethren.f As for the fashion of
wealthy people hiring mediums, at the least it is a mis¬
chievous form of amusement, and tends to promote an ad¬
ditional kind of imposture. If they choose to make fools of
themselves and others, while encouraging a fresh race of
rogues, they must do so, but they might certainly be better
occupied than in sanctioning a degrading superstition.
"What the “ Nokth Londoneb ” Thinks.—The North
Londoner newspaper often has some sagaciously-worded para¬
graphs. Here is one which reads so as to be satisfactory both
to Spiritualists and to non-Spiritualists;—“We recently re¬
ferred to the wide diffusion of Spiritualism in the United
States, and to-day we reprint from the current number of the
* 1. This Daily News article contains several statements directly untrue.
2. It defames the characters of many honest people. 3. It misleads and
misinforms the numerous readers it professes to guide. Therefore, it is of
great advantage to the public to he as free as possible from those “ religious
feelings ” (whatever they may be;, which are exemplified by the acts of the
writer thereof.—Ed.
f On page 14 will be found some of the poetical ravings of one of the
media, suffering from the dreadful diseases described by this veracious
writer. Such .ravings, either in poetry or prose, are common enough now
among trance media in London, but, unfortunately, they are not recorded,
because the world, misled by false teachers, knows and cares nothing of
the boon placed within its reach.—Ed.
Spiritual Magazine an extraordinary narrative by Mr. S. C.
Hall, the well-known editor of the Art Journal, which afford aa
remarkable illustration of the existence of the same faith among
ourselves. Of the sincerity of Mr. and Mrs. Hall there can be
no doubt. Their frank and courageous evidence in a matter
wherein laughter and contempt are their certain portion, can¬
not fail to command the respect of thoughtful and generous
minds, even should it be held that they are under a lamentable
delusion. Spiritualism has been exposed and exploded over
and over again, but it is certainly odd that those who profess
to have enjoyed an actual acquaintance with the supernatural
phenomena are never known to retract, or have their eyes
opened to the imposture.”
Me. Peppee’s Last Ghost.—A few days ago Mr. (com¬
monly known as “ Professor”) Pepper, F.C.S., introduced a
new ghost at the Polytechnic, in an entertainment called the
“ Mysteries of Udolpho.” It consisted of a gigantic skeleton,
which was made to execute a comic dance to the tolling of a
bell; such an outrage on good taste caused a violent com¬
motion among the spectators, and a great deal of hissing.
The skeleton will not appear for the future.
Cubious Suspension op Speech.—A contemporary says
that it is not often, in these prosaic and sceptical times, that
a miracle comes formally attested by an official Government
report, to be duly included in a Government Blue Book. But
the Governor of Aldershot has reported that a prisoner who,
being lately checked on drill by one of the warders, wished
with a blasphemous oath that the warder “ might be struck
dumb,” was himself “ struck dumb on the spot,” all which
may be found solemnly recorded in the recent report on mili¬
tary prisons of Captain Du Cane, Inspector-General. Captain
Du Cane informs us that the man remained dumb for seven
days, and was very much frightened. On recovering his
speech it appears that he made great promises of amendment;
but we regret to add that he is reported to have been “ soon
in prison again.”
Plasticity op The Mind.—When children are young
their bones are in a somewhat gelatinous state, and can then
be bent to some extent in the living body into unnatural
forms. The analogy holds good with respect to the mind,
which may be unnaturally warped by parents who press their
helpless children into particular grooves of foolish thought.
In this way superstitions descend from generation to genera¬
tion, just as some tribes of American savages, age after age,
flatten out the skulls of their children when young by long
pressure between two boards.
The Epfects op Medittmship.—The following remarks
are extracted from a speech made in London by Mrs. Har-
dinge :—Some sixteen or seventeen years ago a young girl,
studying for a profession which necessitated the use of the
voice, found herself afflicted with a disease of the throat and
lungs which threatened serious consequences. As the whole
of her life depended upon the maintenance of the voice, it
was necessary that stringent measures should be made for her
relief. A celebrated physician operated upon her, but without
much effect. A second, third, fourth, and fifth operation was
performed. Assumed to be on the verge of incurable con¬
sumption, she proceeded to America. The disease followed
her, till at last she found her voice was quite gone as far as
music was concerned—a victim to injudicious operations1
Finding herself in a foreign land, with the staff upon which
she leaned broken, she visited a clairvoyant, who declared that
spirits would restore her voice. She was at that time a
spiritual medium, having become acquainted with Spiritualism
a short time previously. Six weeks after the dictum of the
spirits, she stood before 2,000 persons and spoke for a length¬
ened time. For fourteen years she has sustained similar
addresses six times a week, speaking to audiences of between
700 and 2,000 persons without difficulty. “ That illustration,”
Mrs. Hardinge said, f stands before you.’’ This, she said, was
a case showing the beneficence of spirits in opposition to the
assertions of the dangers of Spiritualism.—Daybreak.
“Assumptions.”—The Cardiff Times, the chief and best
weekly newspaper in Wales, calls “facts” testified to by
numerous witnesses “ assumptions,” as will be seen by the
following paragraph which it published last Saturday about
this journal:—“ The Spiritualist is the title of a new
fortnightly journal, which has been commenced as a ‘ re¬
cord of the progress of the science and ethics of Spiritual¬
ism.’ Hitherto ‘ Spiritualism ’ has been represented by
three monthly periodicals of rather limited circulation, but
this new venture partakes of the character of a newspaper.
It contains reports of public meetings and assemblies con¬
nected with Spiritualism, and also papers by persons of more
or less scientific celebrity on the same subject, while about
a fourth of the paper is devoted to ‘ facts for non-Spiritualists.’
The style in which the new journal is got up is highly credit¬
able to its promoters, and believers in Spiritualism will be
able to say the same of the literary ability displayed in the
composition of its contents. Our estimate of the facts and
arguments, adduced by the several writers, is best stated by
the expressive term ‘ bosh.’ We, however, can commend the
journal both to those who desire to know the assumptions which
a belief in Spiritualism leads to, and to those who may be
interested in a collection of curious statements.’’
The Spibitualist.—During the last fortnight a steady
and continued sale of the first number of The Spibitualist
has taken place. It has sold well in London, and to a limited
extent in the country, but the present demand comes chiefly
from the provinces. The possible future of this journal may
be divided into three heads.—1. It may sell well enough to be
published weekly at an early date. 2. There may be a small
loss upon its publication. 3. It may be a failure.—The sale of
the first number, and the favourable comments in letters
received, give plenty of evidence that the third possibility is
not likely to prove a fact, nor, from the present dimensions of
the spiritual movement, is the first possibility likely to be
realised as yet. Should the second one prove true, we have
been thinking that it would be a good plan to bring out the
paper monthly for a time, but not on the first day of the
month, as that would be underselling our contemporaries,
which we should not like to do. With this journal published
in the middle of each month, and the others at the beginning,
there would be a fortnightly supply of news. The three
periodicals could then quietly gather strength while the move'
ment grows ; and as soon as the ground will bear it, this
journal will fulfil its chief object, and come out weekly. This
idea requires consideration, and the best plan of action will
be more clearly seen after five or six numbers of The Spirit¬
ualist have been published. Already it has found its way,
more or less, into nearly all the chief towns and counties in
the three kingdoms; and we printed off an extra supply of
the first number, copies of which were posted to five hundred
of the most eminent men of science in Great Britain.
12
Dec. 3, 1869.
SPIRITUALISM IN ALL AGES.
Iw the course of a lecture upon Spiritualism once
delivered by Judge Edmonds in Hew York, he said : —
“ In two ancient works lately falling under my
notice (Dr. John Dee’s Dealings with Spirits, published
in 1659; and Glanvil’s Sadducismus Triumphatus,
published in 1681), I have found an account of mani¬
festations two hundred and three hundred years since,
identical with those of to-day. The faith of the
Methodists under Wesley, and of the Quakers under
George Fox, was inaugurated one hundred years ago,
under the same influence. The manifestations through
Swedenborg in the last century, were of the same
character. The thirty years’ war which attended the
Reformation under Luther andMelancthon, was accom¬
panied by a lively display of the same power. The
preaching mania, which so much disturbed both the
church and the government in Sweden in 1842, was
the same as our trance-mediumship. And now modern
Spiritualism, much contemned as it is, has within the
last ten years sprung up in all parts of the earth, every¬
where hearing the s&me characteristics, under circum¬
stances which absolutely preclude all idea of collusion
—often betrayed hut never exposed ; defying the
utmost severity of investigation to which human
ingenuity can subject it; calling to its aid, thousands of
intelligent witnesses ; invoking human testimony, which
no sane mind can disregard; and establishing a marvel
unsurpassed in the history of mankind; namely, the
marvel of inanimate matter moving without mortal
contact, and displaying intelligence, and that intelli¬
gence embracing a knowledge cf the alphabet, of
reading, writing and arithmetic; speaking in many
tongues, and reading human thought, and revealing
to us what purports to he the spirit life, with details
which no imagination can fabricate.
“ Now, may we not ask, whence comes this, and
what produces it ?
“ The man of science denounces it as superstition,
the man of the world calls it delusion, and the
religionist characterizes it as satanic. We, on the other
hand, insist that we must believe the evidence of our
senses,- and the deductions of our reason—that we can
not reject the overwhelming evidence that is all around
us. We insist that there is no other hypothesis hut
that of spiritual intercourse which can give any
solution to the phenomena we behold. And we insist
that there is a power now at work in our very midst,
capable of producing marvellous results, which is well
worthy the investigation of the learned, rather than
their scoffs and sneers.
“ And now let us pause yet once again, and ask what
is it that the opponents of our faith demand ?
“ They ask us to yield to their opinion, against the
universal belief of mankind in all ages; against the
teachings of sacred history of all religions; against
the testimony of profane history as to all nations ;
against human testimony which the human intellect can
not disregard; against the evidence of our own senses,
without which we could not live; and against the
opinions of the wise and the good in many ages.
“ Nay, they ask even yet more. They demand that
we acknowledge that man has attained the end of his
knowledge of the works and the word of God, and
that, though in former times and places He has once
and again spoken to man through His ministering
spirits, He can not, and will not, thus speak to him
again; that the glory which once descended and sat
between the wings of the Cherubim, has faded alike
from the sight and the memory of man; that the light
which once shone on Mount Sinai is extinguished, and
for ever ! Can this be so ?
“ No, my friends, it is not; in can not he. If there
is faith to he placed in human testimony—if the past
can speak its lessons of wisdom to the present; if it
is the destiny of man to move onward ever in the
pathway of knowledge—-we must believe that the
spirits of the departed do commune with us ; that a
power has entered into our midst and abides with us,
which we yet may know; and which can work
marvellous things in the sight of God and angels ; and
we may be well assured that the time is not distant,
though it may not be in my day nor in yours, when
the work which has been begun so feebly in the present,
will be finished in the future by elevating us, both
physically and morally, yet nigher and nigher to Him
who has created us in His own image.”
Teab, or the Unknown.—The fear of the unknown is a
•very potent influence among savages, and is lost only as man
ascends in the scale of civilisation and education. The medi¬
cine men, to he found more or less among nearly all savages,
owe their influence entirely to this fear of the unknown
among their less crafty brethren. The feeling is very preva¬
lent among animals. The Rev. Charles Kingsley once spoke
of a pony which reared on end and snorted with affright at a
terrible object in its path. The owner of the animal picked
up the source of terror and gave it to the pony to smell.
After a few trembling sniffs the pony calmed down—it was
only a kettle. Soman, in his upward path, has “shied” at
many kettles—he has committed endless crimes because of
•superstitious fears—but it is to be hoped that those “ good old
times” have now gone for ever, and that better and happier
times await him in the future.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
General ISletos.
Mks. Haedinge’s History of Spiritualism will be out
next month.
The Dialectical Society.—Last week a general meet¬
ing of the Dialectical Society was held at 1, Adam-street,
Adelphi, to pass the accounts, and to transact other routine
business. The Committee',of Inquiry on Spiritualism holds no
meetings at present, but in a short time the work will be
resumed.
Spirit Identity.—During the recent visit to England
of Mr. J. M. Peebles, the medium, and the consul at Trebi-
zond to the government of the United States, Mr. Peebles
went to York to test the identity of a spirit, who had given
him very truthful communications for some years. The
result was that the descriptions given of York and its old
cathedral by the spirit proved true, and upon searching in the
Will Office at York, an entry of the last century, relating to a
brother of the spirit, was found there, as the spirit had stated
would be the case. Mr. Peebles has now reached Trebizond.
Caelyle on Spiritualism:.—The eccentric writer, Mr.
Thomas Carlyle, recently .called Spiritualism, “ The Liturgy
of Dead Sea Apes.” Mr. George Tommy, of 12, Clare-street,
Bristol, wrote and asked him, “ Have you at any time, by the
aid of your own senses, investigated the phenomena of modern
Spiritualism ? ” Carlyle replied, “ By volitn. or except pas¬
sively or by accidt. I never did; nor have I the least intentn.
of ever doing.” A fao simile of this brief document is pub¬
lished this month, both in the Spiritual Magazine and Human
Nature.
Mrs. Geeald Massey.—Mr. Gerald Massey, poet, in the
course of his evidence on Spiritualism before the Dialectical
Society, said that the late Mrs. Gerald Massey was a medium,
and that her powers had been tested before the Duke of
Argyll and others. Once the spirits referred him to some old
editions of Shakspeare for some literary information which
he much wanted ; and he found it there. He also had some
unpleasant experiences connected with spiritualism; on one
occasion the spirits told him where to find the bones of a
child buried in his garden, and- they were dug up accord¬
ingly, to prove the truth of the statement.
The Spiritual Magazine.—The Spiritual Magazine
for December, has some interesting contributions, including
“ A Remarkable Cure of M. Leon Favre,” and a description
of the voice and musical manifestations at one of Mr. Child’s
seances. Mr. Coleman gives an article on an attack upon
Spiritualism, made by Mr. Holyoake at the Dialectical Society.
Mr. William Howitt also gives a short contribution to the
effect that the recently-deceased Rev. W. Harness, Prebendary
of St. Paul’s, and a warm friend of Byron, was a firm believer
in spiritual phenomena. He told Mr. Howitt, at the house of
Miss Burdett Coutts, that he had published accounts of the
appearance of departed friends to those left behind on earth,
and that he knew such things to be true.
Anti-Spiritualism: in West Hartlepool.—A corres¬
pondent writes that a lecturer, Mr. George Duncan, of Glasgow,
recently gave a course of lectures in the Temperance Hall,
West Hartlepool, on “ Modern Spiritualism a Delusion and a
Snare.” The point of his remarks was to the effect that
spiritual manifestations are not due to the known forces of
nature, but to unknown forces, not however employed by
beings out of the flesh. He could not explain their origin
himself. He tried to obtain some of the manifestations in
the presence of the audience, and failed. Three lectures
were given, and there was a thin attendance at each.
Lectures on Spiritualism.—Mr. John Jones, of Enmore
Park, is about to begin the work of lecturing very actively in
different parts of London, on Spiritualism. Most of these lec¬
tures, he says, will include the three following ranges of sub¬
jects :—“ 1. The blending of the natural with the supernatural.
2. What do the phenomena teach? 3. Spiritualism and its
witnesses.” The lectures will be short, to let a few speakers
address the audience afterwards, and he will answer any ques¬
tions that may be proposed. In his last lecture he said that
“ Spirits do not think as we do.” Other close observers have
come to the same conclusion, and some very condensed infor¬
mation about this and other facts or possibilities, which he has
noticed during his long experience at spirit circles, would be
interesting to read.
East London Association of Spiritualists.—This
Association was first formed in June, 1868, under the presi¬
dency of Mr. James Burns, and the first large general meeting
took place in Stepney, on the 8th of July of the same year,
under the chairmanship of Mr. J. M. Speard. Monthly seances
were from that time held regularly, and the finances of the
association were much aided by Mr. Luxmoore, as well as by
Mrs. Emma Hardinge, who gave some of her excellent
lectures in aid of the funds. Meetings were afterwards held
weekly, Messrs. Shorter, Cogman, and Goss, also assisting in
the work, and at last the pressure on the part of the public for
admission to the seances became greater than the circles could
bear, but it is not so heavy now. The secretary is Mr, W.
Cresswell, 11, Emma-street, Hackney-toad.
Spirit Circles in London.—The pressure for admission
to circles in London, where thoroughly good manifestations
are obtained, is now very great. Secmces in connection with
the St. John’s Association of Spiritualists at Clerkenwell are
overcrowded by the presence of strangers, who are admitted
as freely as possible, but the pressure and the unfavourable
conditions militate against getting the best results. Mr.
Pearce, the secretary, writes that one of the circles is of a
more private nature, although the public are not entirely ex¬
cluded, and that the consequent quietness and freedom from
interruption give superior results.—Mr. Cresswell, the secre¬
tary of the East London Association of Spiritualists, writes
that their numerous circles were at first completely unable to
meet a tithe of the demand for admission on’ the part of the
public, but that since less has been published about the locali¬
ties of the circles, the pressure has been brought within
reasonable limits.—Mr. Everitt, of Penton-street, Pentonville,
has so many letters asking permission to see the very wonder¬
ful manifestations that take place through the mediumship
of Mrs. Everitt, that he is compelled, much against his will,
either to keep a clerk or to leave the letters unanswered. He
reluctantly adopts the latter alternative, as Spiritualism has
always been a commercial loss to him, though in itself it is a
great boon and source of happiness. Mrs. Everitt says that
the spirits out of the body, known to her, are much kinder
and better than spirits in the body. This is good testimony,
coming, as it does, from one who has had so much experience.
—It is difficult to get sittings with Mr. Childs, because of the
pressure.—There are only three or four paid media in all
London, and one of the best of these, Mrs. Mary Marshall,
has been sitting at circles so much to meet the public de¬
mand, that the consequent exhaustion has made her ill, and it
is said that she is now out of town. In fact, the best way for
non-Spiritualists to get manifestations is to form private
circles in their own homes. Then, when they see manifesta¬
tions for the first time, they will have the satisfaction of
knowing either that the facts are true, or that they are cheat¬
ing each other, and they will have no unfortunate medium
from without to make uncomfortable with suspicious glances,
words, or acts.
Mesmerism and Clairvoyance.—Since our last notice,
Dr. S. Chadwick has given two other Wednesday ^evening
lectures on mesmerism and clairvoyance at the British-schools,
Stoke Newington. Speaking of the curative power of mes¬
merism, he gave the name and address of a lady who was
mesmerically cured by him, in half an hour, of paralysis in
one of her legs. For years previously she had been unable to
walk. This, he said, was the most successful case he had ever
had; for judicious mesmeric treatment, though beneficial,
does not always produce such striking results. He spoke
highly of Dr. Elliotson, who battled all his life with popular
prejudices on this subject, and who founded the Mesmeric
Hospital, Weymouth-street, Regent’s-park. He said that the
combustion of the elements of food in the body, manufactures
invisible forces, and that mesmerism may be compared to the
transference of a dose of good health from one person to
another. Frequently he misused the words “ electricity” and
“magnetism,” by applying them to these unknown vital
forces.
Spiritualism in Bristol.—During the past few months
Mr. D. D. Home has given several public readings in Bristol,
and other large towns in the west of England. During his
stay in Bristol he was the guest of Mr. John Beattie, 2, West-
bourne-place, Clifton, who has written a detailed description
of some seances held in his house during Mr. Home’s visit.
This account is published in Human Nature for December,
and is well worth reading. Mr. Beattie says that on the 13th
of September Mr. Home first visited him, and he was then
totally unacquainted with him (Mr. Beattie), or his relations.
On the 16th of September, at the first stance, Mr. Home went
into the trance state, and then followed conversations with
Mr. Beattie’s father, mother, brothers, uncle, and aunts, long
since passed away. One aunt’s name was given, and Mr.
Beattie himself did not know at the time that such a relative
had ever lived. Some visitors who had been invited to attend,
also had communications from their departed relatives. Other
seances are described by Mr. Beattie, at which other residents
in Bristol were present, most of whom had evidence of a
most conclusive nature, that they were in receipt of messages
from departed friends. The physical manifestations were, as
usual, of a remarkable character.
Darwin on Man.—The Daily News says that Mr.
Darwin is about to publish a book in which his theory of
natural selection will be carried into the domain of the
human family. The significance of this brief announcement
is evidently scarcely appreciated by those who have noticed it.
The “ rivalry between males of the same species for the pos¬
session of the female ’’has, indeed, long been a patent fact in
ball-rooms, at picnics, and wherever flirtation can be carried
on. Are not our plays and novels mostly built on this founda¬
tion ? indeed, are not grave historical crises constantly traced
to it ? But hitherto nobody has ventured to look on these
things with the cold, discerning eye of the natural philosopher,
much less to trace the preference among ladies for “ attractive
males ” to those remote consequences which Mr. Darwin con¬
templates, It may be hard upon the “ plain people” that
they must eventually become extinct; but Mr. Darwin will no
doubt be able to show that the principle of natural selection
which has improved so many species out of existence must
eventually take man in hand until the ill-favoured and the
ungraceful shall have gone the way of the Dodo.
The Yalue of Reason.—Reason and logical habits of
thought are of more value to man than his legs and arms.
When Hindoo priests ask men to throw themselves under the
car of Juggernaut, the dupes are very properly punished by
the loss of legs and arms, and sometimes of life. Also, when
priests or dervishes ask men to sacrifice reason, the dupes who
do so very properly punish themselves by mentally maiming
themselves for life, so as to be. unfit for all responsible posi¬
tions, and qualified only for the commqnest drudgery.
An Eccentric Will.—The following (according to the
Toronto Globe') is the will of Dr. Dunlop, at one time a
member of the Legislature for Upper Canada:—“ In the name
of God. Amen. I, William Dunlop, of Gairbread, in the
township of Colbome, county of Huron, Western Canada,
Esquire, being in sound health of body and mind, which my
friends who do not flatter me, say is no great shakes at the
best of times, do make my last will and testament as follows :
revoking, of course, all former wills. I leave the property of
Gairbread, and all other property I may be possessed of, to my
sisters, Helen Boyle Story and Elizabeth Boyle Dunlop ; the
former because she is married to a minister, who (may God
help him) she henpecks ; the latter because she is married to
nobody, nor is she likely to be, for she is an old maid, and not
market rife. And also I leave to them and their heirs my
share of the stock and implements on the farm, providing
always that the enclosure round my brother’s grave be re¬
served ; and if either of them should die without issue, the
other is to inherit the ■whole. I leave to my sister-in-law,
Louisa Dunlop, all my share of the household furniture, and
such traps, with the exceptions hereafter mentioned. I leave
my silver tankard to the oldest son of old John, as the re¬
presentative of the family. I would have left it to old John
himself, but he would have melted it down to make tem¬
perance medals; and that would have been a sacrilege.
However I leave him my big horn snuff-box; he can only
make temperance horn spoons out of that. I leave my sister
Jenny my Bible, the property formerly of my great-great¬
grandmother, Betsey Hamilton, of Woodhall; and when she
knows as much of the spirit as she does of the letter, she
will be a much better Christian than she is. I leave my late
brother’s watch to my brother Sandy, exhorting him at the
same time to give up Whiggery and Radicalism, and all other
sins that do most easily beset him. I leave my brother-in-
law, Allan, my punch-bowl, as he is a big gaucy man, and
likely to do credit to it. I leave to Parson Chevassie my big
silver snuff-box I got from the Simcoe Militia, as a small
token of my gratitude to him for taking my sister Maggie,
whom no man of taste would have taken. I leave to John
Caddell a silver tea-pot, to the end that he may drink tea
therefrom, to comfort him under the affliction of a slatternly
wife. I leave my books to my brother Andrew, because he
has been jingling wally, that he may yet learn to read with
them. I leave my silver cup, with the sovereign in the
bottom of it, to my sister, Janet Graham Dunlop, because
she is an old maid and pious, and therefore necessarily given
to horning ; and also my grandmother’s snuff-box, as it looks
decent to see an old maid taking snuff.”
Dec .r 3, 1869.
CHANGES EOE ADVERTISEMENTS. }
1. Advertisements of Public Companies, Half-a-guinea per
sixth of a column, or every portion of sixth of a column. '
2. General Advertisements, Five Shillings per twelfth of a
column, or portion of twelfth of a column.
Note.—Advertisements at the foregoing rates will be
‘ displayedy‘ so as to occupy the full space paid for, but
advertisements at the following rates will be in closely set
type.
3. General Advertisements, Half-a-crown per first five
lines or portion of jive lines, and Fourpence for every line in
addition.
4. Situations Wanted, or Apartments to Let, One Shilling
per first fdur lines, or portion of four lines; Threepence for
every line in.addition.
Ten words are allowed to the line, and six figures or
initial- letters count as one word.
When five or more insertions of the same advertisement
are paid for, twenty per cent, reduction will be made in the
above rates.
The power is reserved of refusing to insert any advertise¬
ment.
Advertisements and remittances should be sent to the
Publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's
Church-yard, London, E.O., or to Mr. J. Burns, 15,
Southampton-row, High Holborn, London, W.C.
Co CnmsjjBniiettfs.
All letters should be brief and to the point, as the amount
■of space available for correspondence is at present small.
Communications intended for the Editor should be by
letter only, addressed to the care of the Publisher, Mr. E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's Church-yard, London,
E.C. Until the Spiritual movement in England,, together
with this journal, have both grown considerably, time cannot
he spared for personal interviews on subjects connected with
the literary work of The Spiritualist, but all letters will
-meet with careful consideration.
The Spiritualist is a periodical intended to give great
freedom of expression to alt the different shades of opinion
to be found among Spiritualists. There will therefore be
very little uniformity in the ideas promulgated in this journal,
more especially in the correspondence columns. Under these
circumstances every reader will find occasionally something
in The Spiritualist which he or she does not like, but the
right of reply remains. This freedom of thought given to
others, the Editor claims for himself, and those who do not
like the contents of leading articles, can write against them
in the correspondence columns. This plan is thought better
than that of reducing the contents of the journal to a
pale weak mediocrity, by inserting only those contributions
which please everybody. The preceding remarks are not
intended to imply that those who have crotchets which they
cannot get printed anywhere else, can find an outlet for them
here, for none but those letters which are considered worth
publication will be inserted.
Notices of Public Meetings in connection with Spiritualism
should be sent to the office several days in advance.
A large amount of information is printed on the last two
pages of this journal, clearly demonstrating that the facts of
Spiritualism, highly improbable as they appear to be, are
real, and deserve serious investigation by all thoughtful
people. In other columns of every number of The Spiri¬
tualist will also be found plenty of additional evidence to
the same effect.
Swljsmkrs.
The first twelve numbers of The Spiritualist will be
forwarded regularly by penny post to subscribers, who remit
four shillings in payment, to Mr. E. W. Allen, Publisher,
Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's-churchyard, E.C.
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1869.
THE PHILOSOPHY OP SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
The higher spirits, as well as many of those of a
more imperfect order, come hack to earth, bearing
messages of affection and love to the friends and rela¬
tives left behind; these visitants from the higher
spheres also often alleviate sickness and pain, and with
kind words comfort those who are afflicted by many
sorrows. Their teachings demonstrate also, beyond all
doubt, that according to the good or evil done by
dwellers in this world, so shall they reap happiness or
misery in the next. Such lessons as these coming from
those who have passed the boundary of the grave, and
sealed with the seal of indisputable authority, are
exactly fitted to do good in these hard unfeeling
money-worshipping times, when high and low alike are
so greedily absorbed in the love of self, that the happi¬
ness of the great bulk of the nation is crucified, and
the United Kingdom with its thirty million inhabitants,
contains a million paupers, and five or six millions of
other persons living in constant fear of the loss of the
hare means of subsistence.
Knowing that the great power of Spiritualism will in
the course of many long years, help to remove those
THE SPIRITUALIST.
national evils which now appear to he permanent, it is
not a very pleasant task to quit the consideration of
these higher principles, to deal with the scientific laws
which govern the phenomena. Tet the duty must he
performed, and while the majority of people are occu¬
pied in witnessing the varied phenomena of thrilling
interest seen in spirit circles, men of science will for
long ages to come have to plod steadily at their work,
collecting stones in the shape of facts, and gradually
building up a fstaircase of knowledge and common-
sense, till the nature of the border-land between this
world and the next is thoroughly understood. In the
unknown region into which Spiritualism has so sud¬
denly introduced its first students, there is so much
resembling “ the stuff that dreams are made of,” that
but for the physical phenomena research would appear
to be hopeless. But, as in every other portion of God’s
universe, let the observer but investigate carefully, the
shadowy region around gradually begins to yield up to
him some of those laws and truths which are ever con¬
cealed from idle and superstitious spectators. Any opinions
about the facts which are advanced at this early date
are necessarily put forward with caution, and are liable
to error, so the succeeding portion of this article should
be accepted only with due reservation.
One great established fact is that spirits have the
power, to a very great extent, of reading the thoughts
of those in the same condition of life as themselves,
and among the higher spirits especially thought-read¬
ing rather than speech seems to be the ordinary method
of conversation. The eye of the human body can see
only within a given distance and within a limited
radius, whereas to the clairvoyant eye of the spirit,
distance offers little obstruction, nor does the interven¬
tion of common matter intercept vision. In many
other respects also, spirits have powers or senses of a
superior nature to those appertaining to the human
body; so much higher indeed, that observers are as
much perplexed upon witnessing such great and unex¬
pected powers, as a caterpillar would be, were a butter¬
fly to settle on the leaf before it, and say, “ As I am,
so shall you be.” These two facts of the power of
thought-reading and clairvoyant vision possessed by
spirits, have been selected from a vast number of
others, to help to prove the point which it is probable
that future research will establish, namely—that the
spiritual world is as high above the animal world, as
the animal world is higher than the vegetable world.
Assuming this simple explanation to be true, there
is nothing surprising that the greatest intellects should
feel overwhelmed for a time by the apparent hopeless¬
ness of attempting to gain accurate knowledge as to
the method of production of spiritual phenomena.
Suppose a vegetable could think, and that a cabbage
saw an animal, say a horse, for the first time, how
utterly overwhelmed the cabbage would feel, to see a
new vegetable walking about on four stalks, with its
roots in its stomach. The cabbage would be obliged
either to adopt the theory that it was a miracle, or
that the animal world was as high above the vegetable
world, as the vegetable world is above the mineral
world. The latter assumption on the part of the cab¬
bage would show most sense, especially when it saw
that the horse, like itself, was influenced by material
conditions, such, for instance, as temperature.
This brings us to the true relation of spiritual
phenomena to experimental natural philosophy.
Mathematics is the highest and purest form of
science, demonstrating its positions beyond all doubt
or question. Who, for instance, can doubt that two
and two make four, or that a straight line is the
shortest distance between two points ? Experimental
science comes next in order, for by weight, calculation,
and measurement, its chief points can be established.
Notwithstanding this, the experimental sciences are
surrounded by a penumbral region, and are based upon
the assumption of the reality of vibrating atoms; that
there are such atoms cannot be proved, and if there be
none, many of the theories in the books of the leading
members of the Boyal Society fall to the ground,
although of course their experiments stand firm. Out¬
side the experimental sciences, come ethnology, political
economy, and other studies, where the influences at
work are so numerous, that an approximation only
to accuracy is seen in the results. Physical science
» T3
has great power over the mineral world, and can repro¬
duce many of its phenomena, nay, it can even make
artificially the oxalic acid which gives the flavour to
common sorrel, and it can manufacture the formic acid
which was once obtainable only from the bodies of
ants. But at the artificial formation of the minutest
vegetable cell, physical science breaks down utterly and
entirely, and from this point upwards through the
marvellous phenomena of the vegetable and animal
worlds, men of science know themselves to be mere ob¬
servers, and not masters. Now, assuming that the spi it
world is simply a great step in advance of the animal
world, nearly all its phenomena are so high as to be
far beyond the reach of the experimental philosopher.
Very few of its forces, if any, are likely ever to be
shut up in a.bottle, and utilised like electricity, for its
phenomena are mostly produced by forces highly vital
and organic in their nature. Research, for instance,
we think will prove beyond doubt, that the will alone,
without acts or spoken words, can influence persons at
a distance from the human body.
These ideas as to the relation between the animal
and spiritual worlds we believe to be entirely new;
they have been formed after two years careful examina¬
tion of the phenomena seen at spirit circles, and they
are published here more especially for the education
and instruction of the Royal Society.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF CHILDREN’S BOOKS.
(From the Daily News.')
In a new American monthly, the Radical, Mr. E. W. Wm-
throp has written an indignant protest against the “ merciless
cruelty of children’s hooks.” He charges that although the
hideous doll of the past has become extinct, and would terrify
the poorest child of to-day if admitted to the baby house, the
tragical horrors of the ancient story-books are still preserved.
Mr. Winthrop instances the “ Babes in the Wood,” with its
heartrending narratives of the dying parents, the sad parting,
the cruel uncle, the ruffians, the murder of one of them, the
slow starvation of the babes, all so poorly compensated by the
kindliness of the robins in covering them with leaves; and
also the direful story of Cock Robin’s Courtship, and his death
in the heyday of wedded happiness. His strongest appeal is
against the tragedy of “ Little Red Ridinghood.” “ The pic¬
ture of the wolf in bed in the grandmother’s nightcap, and the
dreadful dialogue beginning, ‘ Grandmother, what great eyes
you’ve got,’ is enough to make a child’s flesh creep with
horror. We positively assert that we would rather be devoured
any day by the wolf at one mouthful than cause one-half, the
misery to one-half the little ones that this story gives. And
the French ending, which saves little R. R. at the critical
moment by the woodmen, does not help it much ; there still
remains the swallowed grandmother.” As might be naturally
supposed, Dr. Watts does not find much favour with the
writer. He denounces the holding up of the B terrors of the
law” over children, and (tells a story of two children of his
own acquaintance who, after reading the verse in “ Songs for
the Little Ones at Home,” beginning “ There is .a dreadful
hell,” tried to commit suicide by holding their breaths. He
commends the custom which, it seems, prevails among some
mothers, of cutting out such pictures as those which seek to
awaken an interest in foreign missions by representing croco¬
diles swallowing children cast to them by Hindoo mothers.
The chief sinners Mr. Winthrop holds to be Jane and Ann
Taylor. Recognising their good intentions, the writer declares
that their poems for the young filled his childhood with
terrors. The childish offences against which they seek to
warn the young are, he holds, rarely connected with' the ter¬
rible retributions which filled his imagination, and so' the
moral purpose of the verses is itself invalidated.
We have all read the story of the little boy who wept at the
picture of Daniel in the lion’s den—not for the prophet, but
“ for the poor little lion who wasn’t getting any.” But on the
other hand, there are children of acute, or perhaps precocious,
sensibilities, who can be made to weep at the desolations of a
broomstick kept out in the pitiless snowstorm ; and these do,
undoubtedly, suffer much from some of the tragical legends of
the nursery. Story-books, however, will always be written for
the average child ; and it is just possible that the great dis¬
proportion often observed between the fault which the story¬
teller would reprove and the dire retribution awarded it has
grown gradually out of the incapacity exhibited by so many
children of being reached by any but terrible results. Thus,
when Miss Ann Taylor would frighten little nest-robbers, it
might be enough for one or two children to depict the sorrows
of the parent birds at the loss of their young; but to four out
of five the picture she draws of a vast monster, stalking up to
the child’s bed and flying away with it would probably be
found more effectual. Nevertheless, so long as Nature affixes
to each offence its proper and logical penalty, it must be ad¬
mitted to be a very questionable morality which seeks to
secure good behaviour by suggesting unnatural consequences
for the reverse. In the course of time the child will discover
that they who go a-swimming on Sunday are not always
drowned, nor they who play with fire always burnt to ashes ;
and when these myths have been exploded, it may become
more difficult to show the actual benefits of the Sunday and
the real dangers of fire. Equally questionable are the books
which bring to bear upon the young mind the deeper pro¬
blems of religious experience and the vast mysteries of death.
There are few who have been fed on such strong meat in early
life who do not feel a certain relief when some little reac¬
tionist asserts his right to his childhood, though it be with the
boy in Punch, who says to his brother, “ Don’t be a good boy,
Johnny; good boys always die.” Since Nature has given
parents and teachers the physical superiority by which
children may be restrained from wrong behaviour, there would
seem to be the less need for springing upon them the great
engines of moral terror or excitement, which at best can but
tear open the flower that should expand naturally. Nor is it
impossible that the danger of certain nervous disorders, to
which children of a susceptible nature are liable, may be en¬
hanced by such premature mental and moral stimulants.
14
THE SPIRITUALIST.
faetrg*
ON INJUDICIOUS ATTEMPTS TO MAKE PROSELYTES.
Leave thou thy sister when she prays,
Her early heaven, her happy views;
Nor thou with shadow'd hint confuse
A life that leads melodious days.
Tennyson.
BIRDIE’S SONG.
This Spirit song is extracted from Poems of Inner Life, hy Miss Lizzie
Doten, an American inspirational public speaking medium. With such
media the spirits control the vocal organs, which are made to utter words
not in the mind of the speaker. This poem was recited by Miss Doten at
the close of one of her lectures in Boston, when she was inspired by the
spirit of Anna Cora Wilson (a child of the chairman’s), whose career on
earth closed at the age of twelve years and seven months. She was known
among her family and friends by the pet name of “ Birdie.” The poem was
taken down in shorthand by a reporter at the time of its delivery upon the
platform.
With rosebuds in my hand,
Fresh from the Summer Land,
Father! I come and stand
Close by your side.
You cannot see me here,)
Or feel my presence near,
And yet your Birdie dear
Never has died.
Chorus.
Check then the falling tear;
Think of me still as near;
Father and Mother dear.
Soon on that shore,
Where all the loved ones meet.
Resting your pilgrim feet,
Shall you with blessings greet
Birdie once more.
Oh no! for angels bright
Out of that blessed light
Shone on my wondering sight,
Singing—“ We come,
Lamb for the fold above—
Tender young nestling dove—
Safe in our arms to love,
Haste to thy home!”
Mother, I could not stay;
In a sweet dream I lay,
Wafted to heaven away,
Far from the night.
Then, with a glad surprise,
Did I unclose mine eyes
Under its cloudless skies,
Smiling with light.
0 were you with me there
Free from all earthly care,
All of my joys to share!
I were more blest.
But it is best to stay
There in the earthly way.
Till the good angels say—
“Come to your rest.”
(ftflmgptttience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express' opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers].
A CORNISH GHOST STORY.*
Sir,—The following ghost story is taken from Drew’s
History of Cornwall, a standard work published in 1817, and
still considered to be one of the most authentic and valuable
histories of that county. The story itself being well authen¬
ticated and there being many remarkable points in it, you
may perhaps consider it not unworthy of insertion in The
Spiritualist.
London, November 22nd, 1869. R. Pearce.
About 152 years since a ghost is said to have made its ap¬
pearance in this parish, South Petherwin, near Launceston,
in a field about half-a-mile from Botaden or Botathen. In the
narrative which is given of this occurrence, it is said to have
been seen by a son of Mr. Bligh, aged about sixteen, by his
father and mother, and by the Rev. John Ruddle, master of
the Grammar School of Launceston, and one of the prebend¬
aries of Exeter, and vicar of Alternon. The relation given by
Mr. Ruddle is in substance as follows :
Young Mr. Bligh, a lad of bright partg.and of no common
attainments, became on a sudden pensive, dejected and melan¬
choly. His friends, observing the change without being able
to discover the cause, attributed his behaviour to laziness, an
aversion to school, or to some other motive which they sus¬
pected he was ashamed to avow. He was, however, induced
after some time to inform his brother that in a field through
which he passed to and from school, he was invariably met by
the apparition of a woman, whom he personally knew while
living, and who had been dead about eight years. Ridicule,
threats and persuasions were alike used in vain by the family
to induce him to dismiss these absurd ideas. Mr. Ruddle was
however sent for, to whom the lad ingenously communicated
the time, manner, and frequency of this appearance. It was
in a field called Higher Broomfield. The apparition, he said,
appeared dressed in female attire, met him two or three times
while he passed through the field, glided hastily by him, but
never spoke. He had thus been occasionally met about two
months before betook any particular notice of it; at length
the appearance became more frequent, meeting him both
morning and evening, but always in the same field, yet in¬
variably moving out of the path when it came close by him.
He often spoke, but could never get any reply. To avoid this
unwelcome visitor he forsook the field, and went and returned
from school through a lane, in which place between the quarry
park and nursery it always met him. Unable to disbelieve
the evidence of his senses, or to obtain credit with any of his
family, he prevailed upon Mr. Ruddle to accompany him to
the place. “ I arose ” says this clergyman, “ the next morn¬
ing and went with him. The field to which he led me I
guessed to be about twenty acres, in an open country, and
about three- furlongs from my house. We went into the field,
and had not gone a third-part before the spectrum in the
shape of a woman, with all the circumstances he had described
the day before, so far as the suddenness of its appearance and
transition would permit me to discover, passed by.
“ I was a little surprised at it, and though I had taken up a
firm resolution to speak to it, I had not the power, nor durst
I look back, yet I took care not to show any fear to my pupil
* As a general rule, not without exceptions like those of the indisputable
"Wesley manifestations, ghost narratives of previous times, however well
authenticated, are not much desired for The Spiritualist. Such records
have as yet had little influence on the public mind, and as this journal has
begun to find its way somewhat largely among non-Spiritualists, we more
require authenticated accounts of manifestations now going on in our midst,
signed with the names and addresses of all the witnesses. Such evidence is
best for hard-headed business people, now so numerous, whose practic al
religion as exemplified in their daily life, is manifestly “ cash and landed
property.” Ed.
and guide, and therefore telling him that I was satisfied in
the truth of his statement, we walked to the end of the field,
and returned; nor did the ghost meet us at that time but
once.
“ On the 27th July, 1665, I went to the haunted field by my¬
self, and walked the breadth of it without any encounter. I
then returned, and took the other walk and then the spectre
appeared to me, much about the same place in which I saw it
when the young gentleman was with me. It appeared to
move swifter than before, and seemed to be about ten feet
from me on my right hand, insomuch that I had not time to
speak to it as I had determined with myself beforehand. The
evening of this day the parents, the son and myself being in
the chamber where I lay, I proposed to them our going alto¬
gether to the place next morning. We accordingly met at
the place I had appointed ; thence we all four walked into the
field together. We had not gone more than half the field be¬
fore the ghost made its appearance. It then came over the
stile just before us, and moved with such rapidity that by the
time we had gone six or seven steps it passed by. I immedi¬
ately turned my head and ran after it with the young man
by my side. We saw it pass over the stile at which we
entered, and no farther. I stepped on the hedge at one place,
and the young man at another, but we could discern nothing ;
whereas I do aver, that the swiftest horse in England could
not have conveyed himself out of sight in that short space of
time. Two things I observed in this day’s experience ; first, a
spaniel dog which had followed the company unregarded,
barked and ran away, as the spectrum passed by ; whence it
is easy to conclude that it was not our fear or fancy that made
the apparition. Secondly, the motion of the spectrum was
not gradation or by steps, or moving the feet, but by a kind of
gliding as children upon ice, or as a boat down a river, which
punctually answers the description the ancients give of the
motion of these Lamures. This ocular evidence clearly con¬
vinced, but withal strangely affrighted the old gentleman and
his wife. They well knew this woman, Dorothy Durant, in
her lifetime, were at her burial, and now plainly saw her
features in this apparition.
“ The next morning being Thursday, I went very early by
myself, and walked for about an hour’s space in meditation
and prayer in the field next adjoining. Soon after five, I
stepped over the stile into the haunted field, and had not gone
above thirty or forty paces before the ghost appeared at the
further stile. I spoke to it in some short sentences with a
loud voice, whereupon it approached me, but slowly,- and when
I came near it moved not. I spoke again, and it answered in
a voice neither audible nor very intelligible. I was not in the
least terrified, and therefore persisted until it spoke again and
gave me satisfaction, but the work could not be finished at
this time. Whereupon the same evening, an hour after sun¬
set, it met me again near the same place, and after a few
words on each side it quietly vanished, and neither doth
appear now, nor ever will more to man’s disturbance. The
discourse in the morning lasted about a quarter of an hour.
“ These things are true, and I know them to be so, with as
much certainty as eyes and ears can give me ; and until I can
be persuaded that my senses all deceive me, about their
proper objects, and by that persuasion deprive myself of the
strongest inducement to believe the Christian religion, I must
and will assert, that the things contained in this paper are
true. As for the manner of my proceeding, I have no reason
to be ashamed of it. I can justifiy it to men of good prin¬
ciples, discretion, and recondite learning, though in this case
I choose to content myself in the assurance of the thing rather
than be at the unprofitable trouble to persuade others to be¬
lieve it, for I know full well with what difficulty relations of so
uncommon a nature and practice obtain belief.
“ Through the ignorance of men in our age in this peculiar
and mysterious part of philosophy and religion, namely, the
communication between spirits and men, not one scholar in
ten thousand, though otherwise of excellent learning, knows
anything about it. This ignorance breeds fear and abhorance
of that which otherwise might be of incomparable benefit to
mankind.”
EVIDENCE AT THE DIALECTICAL SOCIETY.
Sir,—On page three of the first number of The Spiritualist
there is a serious error in the statement made under the name
of Miss Blackwell. Mr. S. C. ‘Hall has informed me • ‘ that
no incident like that named ever took place at his house, but
that Mr. Livermore, banker, America, related to him at his
house a singular phenomenon that took place, which had a
kind of resemblance to that narrative.” I presume the news¬
paper reporter misunderstood Miss Blackwell. I find the
reporters are “ not up ’£.to the subject of spiritualism, and
therefore easily fall intqCerrors. It is the duty of spiritualists
to see to it, that all facts are so reported, that they may have
equal weight to a declaration before a magistrate.
John Jones.
Emmore-park, S. Norwood, Nov. 26, 1869.
[As stated at the. time, the evidence was extracted from the
Eastern Post newspaper.—Ed.]
.7 A HAUNTED CASTLE.
Sir,—The,fallowing is copied from: the Irish Times Special
Commissioner’s" Report on the Land question :—“ Parsonstown,
Oct. 14,1869.i:' It would be strange if Leap Castle”hvas not’
haunted. - If. would not be easy to imagine a more appropriate
habitation for ghosts, considering its antiquity, its traditions,
the deed&bf violence and blood of which it wa’s the theatre,
the quaint and cjirious apartments in the pre-historic dwelling-
house amiched to the castle, now used f°r kitchen and ser¬
vants’ apartments, the great trees dying of age, and the weird
aspect of the whole plape.. Accordingly while partaking of
Mr. Darby’s genial hospitality, and going through the build¬
ing, the ladies told me of several most extraordinary and un¬
accountable apparitions and noises of which they were them¬
selves personally the witnesses, and which would afford ample
materials for a lot of sensational romances. But even these
stories were scarcely more strange than the psychological fact,
that the children of the family are all ghost-proof ; even the
youngest will go aslefep-hione, without light, in rooms where
women in white have ■ been seen, where loud laughter and
awful shrieks have been heard, and the sounds of feet moving
about, and of hands cautiously lifting and drawing back bed
curtains at the witching hour ofgijght.” J. De M.
Cork, Dec. 1,1869.
Mr. Burns, of the Spiritual Library, is now giving a
course of Tuesday evenings lectures on subjects connected
with man and his habits. He knows how to give plenty of
useful information on the best methods of keeping the body
and mind in good health.
Dec. 3, 1869.
SCIENTIFIC AID TO SPIRITUALISM.
A very good idea was carried out at the lectures
recently given by Mr. J. Jones, of Enmore Park, to
the two Spiritual Associations in London. Dissolving-
view apparatus was called into play, and no more effi¬
cient instrument can possibly be found, to make
lectures attractive and interesting. The apparatus
used at the two lectures just mentioned, perhaps does
well enough for small rooms, but in a hall of
moderately large size it would be a failure, because the
light is too feeble to bear dilution over the area which
it would be necessary to make the picture cover, when
the building is a large one. In such cases the oil lamps
must be abolished, and the oxhydrogen light substituted.
Doubtless it would be good policy to have one good
set of dissolving-view apparatus made for common use
at spiritual lectures in London. In such apparatus,
much depends upon the condensers—the large lenses
between the slide and the light. In some lanterns
there is only one lens instead of two, at this place, and
with such instruments there is such a great loss of light
that it is false economy to buy them. Another very
important part of a lantern, is the combination of
lenses known as the “ object-glass.” Bad object-
glasses will often give bad definition, and will not give
a “ flat field.” When the latter fault is present, the
centre and the circumference of the picture cannot
possibly both be brought into sharp focus upon the
screen at the same time. Yery much good taste
was displayed in the lantern slides painted by Mr.
Bielfeld, and shown at the two lectures recently
delivered, one of them representing a butterfly and
caterpillar upon the branch of a tree, being specially
well done. There was also much ideality in the
design of most of them. In one picture, however,
spirits were painted with wings, and these wings had
better be left out, otherwise they may give good hold
for adverse criticism, when many stiffnecked unbelievers
chance to be present during their exhibition.
Periodical Literature.—Last month the first num¬
ber of a very valuable weekly publication, called Nature,
was published by Macmillan. It is a journal receiving the
countenance and literary support of Tyndall, Huxley, Darwin,
Lockyer, Balfour Stewart, Thomson, and thirty or forty more
of the leading philosophers of Europe and America. A high-
class publication, popularising science, has long been wanted,
for as yet no weekly publication in England has been devoted
exclusively to natural philosophy. It is well printed and
edited, and its motto by Wordsworth—
“To the solid ground
Of Nature trusts the mind which builds for aye.”
we thought of stealing for The Spiritualist, but space here
is too valuable for such poetical repetitions. The first article
in Nature is by Goethe, a Spiritualist, who has in this case
found a translator in Professor Huxley, of all men in the
world. [The fault of the new journal is that it does not
include the greatest of all the sciences—Spiritualism.
When learned bodies who have persistently ignored mes¬
merism for many long years, see it firmly established by
the aid of its stronger brother, Spiritualism, in the public
mind, they will find themselves in a position from which they
must retreat, whether they like to do so or not. So much for
the introduction of dogmatism into science. The managers
of the Times are again, it is believed, seriously contemplating
another reduction in the price of the journal, the competition
of other papers more truthfully representing public interests,
being severe. The Morning Star last month died a very
quiet death, after transferring its worldly interests to the Daily
News. The Newspaper Press, a monthly organ of newspaper
people, published by Mr. E. W. Allen, states that Mr. E. R.
Russell, late of the Morning Star, has returned once more to
Liverpool, as editor of the Liverpool Daily Post, on a salary
of £1,000 a year. Canada is to have a comic paper under the
title of Grinchuchlc.
The Thoughts of a Mole.—My hyacinths would blos¬
som if the moles did not eat up the bulbs at such a fearful
rate I consider a mole’s opinion of the structure
and use of my hyacinths to be very much like most folk’s
notionis of moral truth. The moles see the bottom, and
nothing else. Imagine a mole forming & philosophical theory
of my bulbs. In mole’s language, he would say, IA hyacinth
is a.vegetable creation put under ground for the benefit of the
moieSv . . It has been held by some moles that a hyacinth
haSfan existence above ground, and speculatists have gone so
far as to say that this root is only a kind of starting point,
iWhile the best part of the. plant is above ground. But there
is no evidence of that, and it is doubtless a vagary of the
imagination.’ ”—H. W. Deecher.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Y.—Your friend has twisted the words to make them hear a
meaning which they] do not convey to the ordinary reader.
Dr. Tyndall said that under the action of the chemical rays,
clouds were formed by chemical decomposition, and that one of
these clouds chanced to take the shape of a fish, with eyes, gills,
and feelers.
G. H.—Both addresses were right, and your newsvendor misin¬
formed you.
J. J.—^Experience will show what days are the best for the purpose.
Why should the two mentioned be easier to recollect ?
W. N.—We are very much obliged to you for your information.
Your communications should be more statistical and condensed;
dates also should not be omitted. It would do no good to us or
to you, to print a letter praising this journal.
R. P.—A report shall be made of one or both of the next two meet¬
ings you mention, No doubt “ they all like The Spiritualist,
and wish to see it reduced in price and published weekly,” but it
requires practical knowledge of newspaper work and of the extent
of the Spiritual movement to appreciate the exceeding modesty of
the request. As soon as the cause is likely to support, or nearly
support, a cheaper supply of news of good quality, it will be
forthcoming, but such a step as a permanency is utterly out of the
question at present.
Dec. 3, 1869
THE SPIRITUALIST
15
FACTS FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
As this Journal will necessarily often come
under the observation of those who are not
Spiritualists, it has been thought judicious to
reprint regularly on this and the next page,
the following condensed evidence that spiri¬
tualism deserves serious investigation. The
phenomena witnessed in spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. C. F. Yarley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. C. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was the affidavit of Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E.,
F.KG.S., M.R.I.:—
“ I, Cromwell Fleetwood Yarley, of Fleetwood House,
Beckenham, in the County of Kent, Esquire, make oath
and say as follows:—
“ I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“ About nine or ten years ago, having had my atten¬
tion directed to the subject of Spiritualism by its spon¬
taneous and unexpected development in my own family
in the form of clairvoyant visions and commumcations,
I determined to test the truth of the alleged physical
phenomena to the best of my ability, and to ascertain,
if possible, the nature of the force which produced them.
“Accordingly, about eight years ago, I called on Mr.
Home, the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.
“ The subject of course offers many opportunities and
inducements for fraud, and I only speak of what I have
myself seen and tested. Since my acquaintance with
Mr. Home began I have pursued the enquiry, and I have
found engaged in it able, learned, and scientific men,
who are convinced as I am, that the physical manifesta¬
tions are but the introduction to an extensive field of
mental and physical knowledge which will in a great
measure explain and reconcile the beliefs of all ages and
nations. I know of several instances both in Europe
and America in which this course of study has awak¬
ened the perception of the purest and loftiest truths and
principles. There have been no doubt cases in which
the intellect has been too feeble for the stimulus, and
has been overpowered by it, just as frequently results
from excessive application to religion and other exciting
topics, but such cases have not come within my own
observation.
“Mr. Home, like several other non-professional me¬
diums whose cases I have studied, was passive during
the occurrence of the manifestations. He, like the
other mediums, is extremely susceptible to external in¬
fluences, and has a mind better suited to receive impres¬
sions than to prosecute enquiries. I willingly testify my
entire conviction of his truthfulness and honesty.
“ 0. F. VARLEY.”
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—
“Cromwell F. Yarley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham ; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., 9, St. Mark’s-crescent,
N.W.; Professor De Morgan, 91, Adel&ide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, B.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. C. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Bobert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfleld, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter' to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society'
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
The following is an ’extract from another
affidavit, made in the suit of Lyon v. Home:—
“ I, James Manby Gully, of The Priory, Great Malvern,
in the County of Worcester, doctor of medicine, make
oath and say as follows:—
“I have known the above-named defendant, Daniel
Dunglass Home, for seven years and upwards, last past,
and have during that period been in the habit of attend¬
ing him professionally, and also of receiving him in my
house as a personal friend, and I have never had the
smallest reason to doubt his character as a man of
honour and proper moral feeling.
“ I have during the past seven years witnessed both
in my own house, and elsewhere, in the presence of the
said Mr. Home many curious occurrences, which I am
unable to explain, in the way of singular phenomena,
such as displacement of objects without physical con¬
tact, &c., and from my personal and careful investiga¬
tions (which Mr. Home himself ever urges) I am positive
that it is not in consequence of any trick or device that
such phenomena occur. I have even been witness to
singular phenomena when the said Mr. Home was not in
the same room, and also when he has been asleep. I
have never known the said Mr. Home receive money for
what is termed ‘a seance,' but I have known him re¬
peatedly refuse offers of as much as twenty guineas for
a single seance, “ J. M. .Gully, M.D.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording, all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
The Spiritual Magazine for October, 1869, gives
the following names of friends of Spiritualism
who have now and then contributed to its pages:—
“ Viscount Adare; John Ashbumer, M.D., Translator
of Beichenbach, author of Philosophy of Animal Mag¬
netism and Spiritualism; T. B. Barkas, author of Outlines
of Ten Tears' Investigation into the Phenomena of Modern
Spiritualism; George Barth; Bichard Beamish, F.B.S.,
author of The Life of Brunei; Bev. S. E. Bengough,
M.A.; Edward L. Blanchard; Edward Brotherton; Gap-
tain Bichard F. Burton (the African traveller;) William
Carpenter, author of Political Letters, The English Bible;
Captain Edward Henry Chawner; Henry T. Child,
M.D. (Philadelphia, U.S.A.); Benjamin Coleman, author
of Spiritualism in America; Robert Collyer, M.D., F.C.S.;
Christopher Cook; Bobert Cooper, author of Spiritual
Experiences; Mrs. De Morgan, author of From Matter to
Spirit; Jacob Dixon, L.R.C.P., author of Clairvoyance,
Hygienic, and Medical; Hugh Doherty, M.D', author of
Organic Philosophy; Captain Drayson, B.A.; Judge
Edmonds (New York); Captain H. A Fawcett, B.N.;
J ohn M. Gully, M.D.; Professor W. D. Gunning (Boston,
U.S.A.); Samuel Carter Hall, F.S.A.; Emma Hardinge;
George Harris, M.A., F.S.A., President of the Manches¬
ter Anthropological Society; W. E. Hickson, late editor
of the Westminster Foreign Quarterly Review; Bev. A.
W. Hobson, M.A.; Baron C. Dirckinck Holmfeld; Daniel
Dunglass Home; Rev. J. Page Hopps, editor of The
Truthseeker; Mary Howitt; William Howitt; Henry D.
Jencken, M.B.I., F.G.S.; John Jones, author of Man:
Physical, Apparitional, and Spiritual; Bev. William
Ker, M.A.: Seymour Kirkup (Florence); Andrew Leigh¬
ton ; Bobert Leighton; Kenneth B. P. Mackenzie, F.S.A.;
Bev. William Mountford (Boston, U.S.A.); A. E. New¬
ton (Boston, U.S.A.) author of The Ministry of Angels
Realised; Mary S. Gove Nichols; J. H. Powell: Baron
Beichenbach, author of Researches on the Dynamics of
Magnetism; Elihu Rich, author of several articles in the
Encyclopsedia Metropolitana; J. Lockhart Bobertson,
M.R.C.P.: Mary 0. Hume Bothery; Bev. W Hume
Rothery, M.A.; Epes Sargent, author of The Planchette;
Thomas Shorter; Rev. W. B. Tomlinson, M.A.; Crom¬
well F. Varley, F.B.G.S.; 0. Staniland Wake, author of
Chapters on Man; Alfred B. Wallace; A. M. H. Watts;
William White, author of Emanuel Swedenborg: His
Life and Writings; W. M. Wilkinson, author of Spirit
Drawings; James J. Garth Wilkinson, M.D., author of
The Human Body, and its Connection with Man; Rev. F.
B. Young.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“ Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“ A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager,
the verdict of the majority to decide in this ease likewise.’
“ In either case, the seances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“ The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
All these facts, together with those which
follow, prove that Spiritualism deserves serious
investigation. Not a few learned men have pri¬
vately been examining the phenomena in order to
“ explode the imposture,” but these extinguishers
soon catch fire themselves. In short, in the
minds of most of the English public, Spiritualism
has to pass through the following five stages:—
1. The manifestations do not take place.
2. Spiritualism is a gross imposture.
8. It is a delusion,
4. It is the work of the Devil.
5. It is a great blessing, and we always said so.
Experience shows that the feebler the intellect,
and the lower the standard of energy and educa¬
tion, the sooner does the investigator break down
at one of the first four out of the above five steps
in the ladder of progress.
MR. HOME’S AFFIDAVIT.
In the Chancery suit of Lyon v. Home, for the
recovery of certain monies given by Mrs. Lyon
to Mr. Home against the advice of her lawyer
and her friends, Mr. Home made an affidavit, from
which the following is an extract:—
“ L Daniel Dunglass Home, of 22, Sloane-street, in
the County of Middlesex, one of the above-named de¬
fendants, make oath and say as follows:—
“I was bom in Scotland on the 20th of March, 1833,
and from my childhood have been subject to the occa¬
sional happening of singular physical phenomena in my
presence, which are most certainly not produced by me
or by any other person in connection with me. I have
no control over them whatever: they occur irregularly,
and even when I am asleep. Sometimes I am many
months, and once I have been a year without them.
They will not happen when I wish, and my will has
nothing to do with them. I cannot account for them
further than by supposing them to be effected by intelli¬
gent beings or spirits. Similar phenomena occur to
many other persons.... These phenomena occurring in
my presence have been witnessed by thousands of
intelligent and respectable persons, including men of
business, science, and literature, under circumstances
which would have rendered, even if I desired it, all
trickery impossible. They have been witnessed repeat¬
edly and in their own private apartments, when any
contrivance of mine must have been detected, by their
Majesties the Emperor and the Empress of the French,
their Majesties the Emperor, Empress and late Empress
Dowager of Russia, their Imperial Highnesses the Grand
Duke and Duchess Constantine of Russia and the mem¬
bers of their august family, their Majesties the King of
Prussia, the late King of Bavaria, the present and late
King of Wurtemberg, the Queen of Holland, and the
members of the Royal Family of Holland; and many
of these august personages have honoured, and I be¬
lieve still honour, me with their esteem and goodwill, as
I have resided in some of their palaces as a gentleman
and their guest, and not as a paid or professional per¬
son. They have had ample opportunities, which they
have used, of investigating these phenomena, and of
inquiring into my character. I have resided in America,
England, France, Italy, Germany, and Russia, and in
every country I have been received as a guest and
friend by persons in the highest position in society, who
were quite competent to discover and expose, as they
ought to have done, anything like contrivance on my
part to produce these phenomena. I do- not seek, and
never have sought, the acquaintance of any of these
exalted personages. They have sought me, and I have
thus had a certain notoriety thrust upon me. I do not
take money, and never have taken it, although it has
been repeatedly offered me for or in respect of these
phenomena, or the communications which appear to be
made by them. I am not in the habit of receiving those
who are strangers to me, and I never force the subject
of Spiritualism on any one’s attention... . Some of the
phenomena in question are noble and elevated, others
appear to be grotesque and undignified. For this I am
not responsible, any more than I am for the many
grotesque and undignified things which are undoubtedly
permitted to exist in the material world I solemnly
swear that I do not produce the phenomena aforesaid,
or in any way whatever aid in producing them,” &c.
“ I have been subjected to much persecution through¬
out my life, because of my conscientious belief as to the
meaning and great purpose of spiritual phenomena
taken, as a whole. That belief I have not, like the
plaintiff, foresworn. I have always courted the strictest
investigation, although I have not condescended to
notice all the attacks and anonymous slanders that have
been circulated respecting me. The book shown to me
at the time of swearing this affidavit, marked H 8, con¬
tains a correct list of upwards of 1,300 letters, with the
writers’ names, which I still retain (after having de¬
stroyed about 10,000), written to me by persons of every
rank and class, including persons of the highest social,
political, literary, and scientific position, who have in¬
vestigated these phenomena, and corresponded with me
about them. After the fullest opportunities of examine
tion, they have formed different opinions as to their
origin and meaning; but I believe that all are
thoroughly satisfied of my entire honesty in the matter;
and lately, while the plaintiff’s base and unfounded
charges of fraud and imposition have been hanging
over me, and during the months of January and
February, 1868, these phenomena have been thoroughly
tested by another scientific man, named Mr. Hawkins
Simpson, the inventor of electrical apparatus, including
one for printing at a distance by the telegraph—a
drawing and description of which were, as I am in¬
formed and believe, given in the Engineer newspaper of
the 15th November, 1867.”
Omitting the remainder of Mr. Home’s affidavit,
the following evidence given by him before the
Dialectical Society, is of interest:—
“He had seen a pencil lifted by a spirit hand write on
paper in the presence of the Emperor Napoleon. This
took place in a large room, the Salon Louis Quinze. The
Empress was also present. The hand, after writing,
went .to the Emperor, who kissed it; it then went to the
Empress; she withdrew from the touch, and the hand
.followed her. The Emperor said, ‘Do not be fright¬
ened, kiss it! ’ She then kissed it, and it shortly after¬
wards disappeared. The writing was an autograph
of the Emperor Napoleon I. The Emperor of Russia
had also seen and handled spirit hands, which after¬
wards seemed to melt away into thin air."
The Emperor Napoleon has been at a great
many of Mr. Home’s seances, and Mr. Home was
asked by members of the Dialectical Society to
state other things which had been observed on
those occasions. Mr. Home said that he did not
feel at liberty to state any more than the Emperor
was in the habit of telling himself.
WHAT IS THE USE OF SPIRITUALISM ?
Strangif to say there are people who can ask
what is the use of communication with friends
and relatives, who have passed the great barrier
of the grave. One use of Spiritualism is, that all
Spiritualists who lead moderately good lives, are
found to gradually lose the fear of death. Spirits
through the agency of suitable media have much
power in the healing of diseases, and the removal
of deformities, though such power is far from
absolute. The following is a narrative, published
in Daybreak, of some of the powers exercised
through Mr. Newton, the best healing medium in
the United States; he is expected to visit England
in the course of the year 1870. The following ex¬
ample from a very boundless field of choice, is
enough for the present on the subject of the uses
of Spiritualism:—
‘Friday, May 22, of the present year (1868) will for
ever remain one of the most memorable days of my life.
It was on that day, when the sun was shining brightly
and bathing the world with its light and heat, that I
arrived at Newport, Rhode Island, and first came under
the healing powers of Dr. J. A. Newton. I had heard
of him through The Spiritual Magazine, Mr. William
Howitt, and Mr. Coleman, and was assured that if I
placed myself in his hands I should be speedily and
radically cured of the neuralgic affection in my head,
for which I had been suffering for eleven years. It was
not until I had become a little more familiar with some
of the facts and phenomena of modem Spiritualism
that I felt a quiet faith in the power of Dr. Newton to
remove my disease. Having once attained to that state
of mind, and becoming satisfied that it was my duty to
cross the Atlantic in search of health, I made arrange¬
ments for doing so, and left Liverpool for New York on
Saturday, May 9, arriving at the latter place on Tuesday
evening, the 19th. * * * * The moment Dr. New¬
ton and I met, I found in his face and simple kindly
manner a human image of the outside sunshine, and
but few words had been spoken when I was convinced
that the errand upon which I had come would be ful¬
filled. I was about to give him the history in detail of
my affliction when he stopped me by saying, ‘That
after I had been cured he would be very glad to listen
to anything I might wish to say, but that the cure itself
was the first matter to be attended to.’ He then poured
a large quantity of very hot water upon my head while
I was leaning it over a basin into which the water fell.
After my head had been dried with a coarse towel, I
was made to sit upon a moveable seat, similar to a
music-stool, the doctor standing behind me, and placing
my head against his chest with his hands crossed upon
my forehead. He then moved my head in various
directions until all at once a clicking noise was heard at
the top of my spine. The doctor immediately cried out,
‘ That noise is the sign that you will be cured; the dis¬
turbance of the nerve current has been removed.’ He
then faced me, and lifting both his hands towards
heaven, he looked me hard in the face, saying, ‘Look at
me. In the name of God our Heavenly Father, and of
the Lord Jesus Christ the Great Healer, I bid this
disease depart from this dear suffering brother and
never more afflict him. It is gone—it is gone—it is
gone for ever, my brother; you are cured; rise up on
your feet and be cured.’ At that instant I felt a strong
current of new life flowing into and through every part
of my body, and I was conscious that I had entered
upon an altogether new phase of existence. From that
day to the present hour, July 13, I have been entirely
free from my pain, and have felt as well, I should think,
as it is possible for any human being to feel. Physically'
speaking, I am a new creature; old things have passed
away and all things have become new. Of course it is
not for me to say absolutely that the cure will be per*
manent, but, if I may judge from my present expe¬
rience, I see no reason why it should not be so.
Wonderful as my case is, it is only one of thousands, so
far as Dr. Newton is concerned. He has cured almost
every form of disease, and removed almost every kind
of suffering. In fact, he appears to have done every¬
thing but raise the dead. And yet even he does not
cure all cases, and this failure enables him to keep alive
the consciousness that it is not he who cures, but God
who works in and through him. He tells me that he
has cured something like a quarter of a million of
people. * * * * Most of his cures are done without
fee or reward. In my own case he steadily refused to
fake a single dollar, and I saw him act in like manner
towards several others. During my stay I witnessed
several instances of his healing power; some of them
being so manifest as to defy all attempts at explaining
them away. On the very morning that my own cure
was effected, I witnessed his cure of a paralytic who for
three years had been unable to walk without the aid of
crutches, and even then, only in a partial degree. This
woman was brought by her parents to Newport, and, in
less than five minutes from the time when she came
under Dr. Newton’s hands, she got up from the couch
on which she had been laid, and walked away up the
street and back again, a full mile, and afterwards
walked and ran and jumped and danced, as so many
signs that her cure was a complete one. I also saw him
cure a young man who had a withered hand. Indeed, I
might have seen day by day, and hour by hour, ex¬
amples of this healing power had I choseii to have done
so. Every now and again, there are trains from Boston
and Providence freighted with the lame, the halt, the
blind, and the diseased, sometimes to the number of
500 or 600. These come to Newport, and a large majo¬
rity of them are sent away perfectly cured. In one part
of Dr. Newton’s house there is a room of considerable
size, full of crutches, sticks, spectacles, eye-shades,
bandages, and other memorials of disease and sickness
which have been left behind by patients as so many
signs and trophies of their cure.
* * * * * *
“ Frederick Rowland Young,
“ Minister of the Free Christian Church, Swindon.”
There are very many healing mediums in the
United States, who can do good only in certain
diseases, or whose powers are so feeble that suc¬
cessful results may with more probability of accu¬
racy be put down to the imagination of the
patient.
A great use of Spiritualism is that it demon¬
strates the immortality of the soul. But why
ask, “ Of what use is Spiritualism ? ” for here the
thing is in our midst as much a part of nature as
the trees, the clouds, and the flowers, and as it
cannot be abolished there is no alternative but to
subject it to investigation, or to lookton in igno¬
rance.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there <
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm; let arrangements be made that
16
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 3, 1869
nobody shall enter It, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of tha circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool Wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Tes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” . When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing the many kinds of mediumship will be found
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s book, From Matter
to Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is a I
good book to read before trying to start a new
circle. It usually takes several years for any
medium to attain full power, and it is not an
uncommon although not an everyday thing, for
chairs and other articles to move about in the
presence of a good well-developed physical medium
without anybody touching the articles at all. This
fact effectually disposes of Faraday’s “unconscious
muscular action ” theory. Some have suggested
that ihe phenomena are all mental, since mental
conditions influence their production, and that
those present all believe they see and hear things
which they do not in reality see and hear. The
answer is that there is sometimes such a noise
with improperly powerful manifestations that the
sounds are heard all over the house by persons
not in the room; the furniture sometimes gets
broken by movements of too violent a character,
and the broken portions remain as evidence that
the. phenomena were not of a mental character.
The upholsterers’ bills which result also serve to
convince that the occurrences are facts. The
higher; spirits seem to have little power over
common matter, and . the highest communications
are-not .usually obtained through physical mani¬
festations.
There are in England several very interesting
circles for physical manifestations, where the
spirits speak with audible voices, but, unfortu¬
nately, total darkness is a necessary condition.
Non-spiritualists who are inquiring into the sub¬
ject should have nothing to do with dark seances,
which should be held only by those who know
each other,'since they offer so many facilities , for
fraud. When any circle regularly 'qbfcains power¬
ful physical manifestations, they may desire to sit
for . the voices. The^ verv .sligjjtg^t; glimmer.' of •
light must - be oxcltidnd from the tf'domy while the •
methberwof ‘the circle | sit round the table in the
ordinary way. One or two paper tubes, each
twelve or eighteen inches long, with an orifice
about- an inch-and-a-half in diameter, should be
placed on the table. They may be readily made
by rolling up a piece of music and tying a few
pieces of cotton round the rough tube thus formed.
In the early stages of a voice-circle these tubes
are necessary for the use of the spirits, but after¬
wards they may be dispensed with except when
the weather and other conditions are unfavour¬
able. When first trying to obtain the voices the
spirits may not be able to lift the tubes from the
table, afterwards they often get them up in the
air a foot or two and let them drop again.- When.
they get full control over them they can carry
them about up to the ceiling and to all parts of
the room, and they talk to the members of the
circle often while floating about above their heads.
Very beautiful luminous phenomena are some¬
times shown by the spirits at dark circles. While
sitting for the voices, the spirits will tell by the
ordinary table signals how they are progressing in
their work of getting control of the tubes.
Every human being is surrounded by an atmo¬
sphere which to the spirits is luminous and mate¬
rial, and this atmosphere is largely used by the
spirits in the production of the physical manifes¬
tations. Baron Beichenbach, while he knew
nothing of Spiritualism, discovered by experiment
the presence of unknown forces emanating from
human bodies, and published the results in his
Researches on Animal Magnetism. All the pheno¬
mena of Spiritualism draw temporarily upon the
vital powers of those composing .the- circle, but
the medium is the chief source of energy.
A still atmosphere and subdued light in the
room are favourable conditions fort the physical
manifestations.
SPIRITUALISM AND MEN OP SCIENCE
Sir J. Emerson Tennent once invited Faraday
to a seance at which Mr. Home was to be the
medium, Faraday wrote and asked for a pro¬
gramme of the manifestations, and as nobody
knows beforehand what will take place at a circle
any more than the details of an expected star-
shower can be given in advance, it was not pos¬
sible to comply with his demand. Faraday also
required an answer to the following questions,
among others, before attending:— .rir!
“Would he \Mr. Home] be glad if their [the manifesta¬
tion's'] delusive character were established and exposed,
and would he gladly help to expose it, or would he he
annoyed and personally offended? [The italics in this
sentence are not in the original.]
“ Does he consider the effects natural or supernatural ?
If natural, what are the laws which govern them ? or
does he think that they are not subject to laws? If
supernatural, does he suppose them to be miracles, or
the work of spirits ? If the work of spirits, would an
insult to the spirits he considered as an insult to
himself ? ”
Mr. Home took no notice of the above insults,
and, it is believed, never wrote Faraday in the
first instance, or took any notice of him whatever.
He never even saw his letters.
Dr. John Tyndall, F.B.8., in a note dated May
8, 1868, commenting upon Faraday’s letter just
mentioned, wrote:—
“ I hold myself in readiness to witness and investigate,
in the spirit of the foregoing letter [of Faraday’s], such
phenomena as Mr. Home may wish to reveal to me
during the month of June.”
A few days previously Mr. Home had written
in the Pall Mall Gazette:—
“ It will give me pleasure to meet Professor Tyndall,
and any two gentlemen he shall designate. On my side
I shall have at least two gentlemen whose names and
position place them above the suspicion of aiding or
abetting a fraud. I will meet Professor Tyndall and
these gentlemen when and where they please, and
under such circumstances as they may decide on. I
must only crave their patience if nothing should occur
at the first, or even the second, siance."
From that day to this Dr. Tyndall has not
accepted the above invitation.
A demand for a programme where no programme
can be given, and the writing of supercilious
letters in reply to civil invitations, amounts prac¬
tically to a refusal to observe faots. Dr. Tyndall,
and men who act like him, are recommended to
bear in mind the following words of Galileo :—
“Oh, my dear Kepler, how I wish that we could have
our hearty laugh together. Here, at Padua, is the prin¬
cipal professor of philosophy, whom I have repeatedly
and urgently requested to look at the moon and planets
through my glass, which he pertinaciously refuses to do.
Why are you not here ? What shouts of laughter we
should have at this glorious folly; to hear the Professor
of Philosophy at Pisa, labouring before the Q-rand Duke
with logical arguments, as if with magical incantations
to charm the planets out of the sky! ”
A little society known as the Dialectical Society,
is now investigating Spiritualism. It numbers
among its members many shrewd and intelligent
men, belonging chiefly to the legal and medical
professions. Spiritualists watch its proceedings
with a moderate amount of interest; nothing that
any man or body of men may say or do can alter
the established phenomena and laws of nature.
THE LITERATURE OE SPIRITUALISM.
The literature of Spiritualism now consists of
several hundreds of volumes, good, bad, and indif¬
ferent, and almost entirely of American origin.
Among the best volumes on the subject are Mrs
De Morgan’s From Matter to Spirit (Longmans)
with a preface by Professor De Morgan, President
of the Mathematical Society of London; The
Planchette, by Epes Sargent; Spiritualism (2 vols.),
by Judge Edmonds and G. T. Dexter, of New
York; a History of Spiritualism, by Emma Hard-
inge; and The Autobiography of Andrew Jackson
Davis. An interesting book, consisting simply of
narrations of facts witnessed at remarkable seances,
is Incidents of My Life (Longmans), by D. D.
Home. The Soul of Things, by Denton, is a curious
book in'lirectly connected with Spiritualism, and
worth reading. Those unacquainted with Spiri¬
tualism are recommended to read these books in
the order in which they have just been mentioned.
The only large lending library of Spiritual books
in Great Britain is that belonging to Mr. J. Burns,
15, Southampton-row, High Holborn, London,
W.C. The English periodicals on the subject
are, The Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, Day¬
break, and The Spiritualist.
ADyiCE TO INQUIRERS.
1 Those who know no intelligent Spiritualists,,
and nothing, about Spiritualism, yet who want to
investigate, are recommended to begin by reading
the first two books mentioned in the preceding
paragraph. Then they should call upon the chief
publisher of Spiritual books in London, Mr. J.
Bums, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom (where they
are sure to be treated with attention ana courtesy),
and ask for the names and addresses of say four
good professional or non-professional mediums,
accessible to the public, and “ recognised by Spiri¬
tualists as reliable for powerful physical manifes¬
tations.” There are plenty of mediums o*r of people
who fancy themselves mediums, who can rarely show
anything satisfactory, and with whom an inquirer
might waste much time. He should then get say
two sittings by daylight in his own house with
each of the four mediums, because the power
varies in strength at times with every medium;
at the end of the eight sittings he is sure to be
thoroughly interested in Spiritualism, and to have
thrown overboard the imposture theory, which is
the clumsiest and most superficial one of all.
Many of the public have vague ideas that electri¬
city can do all kinds of unaccountable things, but
A GENUINE MEDIUM NEVER HAS ANY HESITATION
IN SITTING WITH A CIRCLE IN A HOUSE AND AMONG
EURNITURE WHICH HE OR SHE HAS NEVER SEEN.IN
his or her liee beeore. Even with a good
medium it is best, if time be valuable, not to
investigate at crowded public circles, because,
assuming imposture to be at work, there is no
telling who may not be aiding, among the
numerous spectators. Besides, where so many
people want to ask questions of the spirits, the
investigator has not time to put many himself.
Investigators are recommended to be thus careful
in the selection of mediums, because as public
attention is gradually more rivetted upon Spiri¬
tualism, impostors are sure to spring up, and even
to advertise in Spiritual periodicals, for the editors
manifestly cannot investigate the claims of every
professing medium. At present (November, 1869)
there is very little imposture mixed up with the
Spiritual movement in Great Britain, and there are
only four or five paid mediums in all London.
Good paid mediums deserve high praise rather
than that censure which is thrown upon them even
by Spiritualists; they find house-room; they are
ready to receive strangers at stated times when
private circles could not sit for the convenience of
inquirers; the sittings exhaust their vitality like a
hard days’ work, and they have to put up with
much abuse when uneducated roughs unaccus-
toiiaed to investigation persecute them by attend¬
ing. The inquirer should mention to the medium,
civilly and kindly, his doubts respecting the
phenomena he may witness; the invisible beings
around will at once, on the spot, do their best to
remove those doubts, or an explanation will be
obtained from the medium. When there is real
foundation for suspicion, the best plan is to go
often to the medium, accompanied by witnesses,
detect the imposture, and prosecute the medium
for obtaining money under false pretences.
Genuine manifestations are not under the control
of the medium, so that a paid medium who does
not get manifestations, is under a great temptation
to try to make them. This fact makes it difficult
for Spiritualists to speak absolutely as to the relia¬
bility of any paid mediums, however genuine the
majority of the manifestations may be which occur
in their presence. After getting thoroughly inte¬
rested in Spiritual phenomena, the inquirer should
take his friends to see them, and afterwards get up
a private circle in his own house. Manifestations
will most likely not be obtained at the first sitting,
but after very few or very many sittings they will
come; gradually the great barrier of the grave
which now separates friends will be broken down,
and after the experience of a year or two the
dread of the beautiful natural process, called
“ death,” will be destroyed, as it is destroyed in
the minds of all experienced Spiritualists, except
those who during life have done harm to their
fellow-creatures. Very high spirits and their
homes are perfectly invisible to very low spirits;
this, coupled with the fact that there is no more
uniformity in the next world than there is here, I
accounts for the endless contradictions about spirit
life given in Spiritual communications.
An investigator of a logical and scientific turn of
mind may possibly have to closely follow up the
subject for some weeks before gaining the absolute
knowledge that the manifestations come from
spirits. Unlike Mr. Home and a few other excep¬
tional individuals, most mediums are developed
for one or two special purposes only. Thus, vio¬
lent physical manifestations, inexplicable by any
of the recognised laws of matter, may be seen in i
the presence of one medium, but mental tests and
questions may bring forth a majority of inaccurate
and unreliable answers. Where good mental tests
are obtainable through a medium, the physical
manifestations may be altogether absent.
There are so few public or semi-public spirit
circles at work in London, and the pressure for
admission is so great where the manifestations are
good, that the best plan for novices is usually to
try to get manifestations at home among their own
friends.
JOSEPH BAEKEB’S ATJTOBIOGEAPHY.
Now ready, neatly bound in cloth, price 2s. 6d.
Teachings of experience; or,
Lessons I have Learned on my Way through
Life.
“ At the time he told me of these things, I had become
rather uncharitable towards the Spiritualists, and very
distrustful of their statements, and the consequence was,
that my friend’s account of what he had witnessed,
and of the effect it had on his mind, made but little im¬
pression on me. But when I saw things resembling
what my friend had seen, his account of what he had
witnessed came back to my mind with great power, and
helped to increase my astonishment.” ... “ The result of
my visit to Dr. Kedman was, that I never afterwards
felt the same impatience, with Spiritualists, or the same
inclination to pronounce them foolish or dishonest, that
I had felt before. It was plain, that whether their theory
of a spirit world was true or not, they were excusable in
thinking it true. It looked likp truth.”—Pp. 163,164.
London: James Beveridge, 9, 10, 11, FuUwood’s-rents,
Holborn, W.C.
HUMAN NATURE, a.Monthly Record
of Zoistic Science, Intelligence, and Popular
Anthropology. Becent numbers give full details of the
extraordinary Manifestations through the celebrated
Medium, D. D. Home, Esq., with philosophical reason¬
ings as to the nature and cause of the phenomena: a
new series of lessons on Phrenology and the Tempera¬
ments is being given; containing some new instructions
of great value.to the student; first-class Portraits of.
eminent men and women, with Biographies and Phrend1
logical delineations are frequently introduced; a serial
Tale of great power and beauty; articles on Physiology,
Diet, Temperance, and Health; translations from Con¬
tinental Works and Periodicals ^treatises on Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Spiritualism; reviews of Books; reports
of Lectures, Meetings, and Societies, renders this rthe
cheapest, most varied, and instructive Periodical of ;the
kind in the world. The fact that this Periodical is en¬
tirely unbiased and devoted to the truth respecting all
the topics on which it treats, is a point not to be over¬
looked by all earnest investigators, whatever their
opinions maybe. Post free, 7s. per annum, or 6d. per
month from the Booksellers. James Burns, Progres¬
sive Library, IS, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury-square,
Holborn, London, W.C.
HE PROGRESSIVE LIBRARY: and
SPIBITUALIST DEPOSITOBY has been re¬
moved from Camberwell to No. 15, Sonthamptoh-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, W.C.
There is a Publishing Office and Shop for the sale of
Books; a Circulating Library of all Works on Spirituahsm.
I &c. ; a Beading-Boom supplied with the Spiritual and
Progressive Publications of the World; a.Drawing-
Boom for the special use of Ladies and Subscribers;
Private Booms for Stances, Committees, Meetings, &c.,
and where all information respecting the Cause and the
Progress of events may be obtained.
The Subscription, entitling to all the privileges of the
Establishment, including the use of two' Books at a
time from the Library for home perusal, is 21s. per annum
A well-assorted Stock of Stationery, Periodicals, cur¬
rent Progressive Literature, Standard Works, Cheap
Books and Tracts, Planchettes, Materials for Writing
and Drawing Mediums; also Works and Appliances oh
Phrenology, Physiology, Health, and Dietetic Beform,
Temperance, Hydropathy, Gymnastics, Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Anthropology, &c., will be kept on sale.
As the responsibilities incurred in establishing this
“Home for Spiritualism” and the Science of Man are
very heavy, the Proprietor earnestly solicits the kind
co-operation and support of all who sympathise with
the enterprise. Strangers in London should at once
call at the Progressive Library, where they may hear of
Lodgings and get other useful information.
J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, LGndon, W.C.
“THE NEWSPAPEB PBESS ’’—THE PBESS OBGAN
mail JOURNAL is the adopted and re-
JL cognised Bepresentative of the Newspaper in¬
terests, and the medium of intercommunication between
Proprietors, Editors, Beporters, Correspondents, Pub¬
lishers, Printers, and all parties associated with News¬
papers.
Subscriptions, 4s. per annum, post free, payable in ad¬
vance.
iLondon: E. W. Allen, Publisher, 11, Ave Maria-lane
TO LIFE POLICY-HOLDERS. — The
recent disclosures in the Chancery Court indis¬
putably prove that neither the antiquity of a life office
nor the magnitude of its income, affords to the public
any security that the premiums they have paid for the
purpose of securing a snm of money to their families
may not be frittered away in costly amalgamations, or
jeopardised by fire, marine, or accidental risks.
In order to remove this insecurity the BBITISH IM-
PEEIAL INSUBANCE COBPOBATION was esta¬
blished on the principle substantially adopted by Her
Majesty’s Government for small policies, and carried out
through the medium of the Post-office.
The Life Funds of the British Imperial Corporation
are placed beyond the control of the Directors, being in¬
vested in the Government Funds (for the sole purpose
of meeting policy claims) in the names of trustees, who
act independent of the Directors, and solely on behalf of
the policy-holders.
The system of investing Insurers’ net premiums in
Consolidated three per cent. Annuities in Trustees"
names for the sole purpose of meeting Policy Claims,
combined with the creation of a number of Separate
Trusts, presents entirely new elements of security to
Insurers.
Any section of the community who are dissatisfied
with the ordinary plan of entrusting their premiums to
the care of the Directors of a life office may, without
cost or risk, constitute themselves into a separate sec¬
tion of the British Imperial Corporation, and appoint
their own trustees to control the life insurance funds
contributed by them.
Trustees :
Christopher Weguelin, Esq., Director of the Bank of
England (Messrs. Thomson, Bonar, and Co.)
Charles Oppenheim, Esq., Director of the Union Bank of
London (Messrs. S. Oppenheim and Sons).
William G. Goodliffe, Esq., Accountant-General, India
Office, Westminster.
Augustus F. Bayford,. Esq., LL.D., Senior Begistrar,
Court of Probate, Doctor’s-commons, Chancellor of
the Diocese of Manchester.
Alderman Thomas Dilworth Crewdson, J.P., Greenheys,
Manchester.
Head Offices:
81, KING-STBEET, AND 60, SPBING-GABDENS,
MANCHESTEB.
Chief Offices for London:
20, COCKSPUB-STBEET, PALL-MALL.
JpEMALE
MEDICAL
Vice-Patrons:
SOCIETY.
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Bothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President:
The Bight Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer :
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171 Aldersgate-street, E.C,
Honorary Secretary:
[James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary:
Mrs. Blangy.
Auditors:
Colonel Oldfield, Ticehurst, Sussex.
Captain Webber, 94, Gower-street, W.C.
Bankers:
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
Temporary Offices:
4, Fitzroy-square, London, W,
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and,
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
Midwifery and the accessory branches of medicine
offer a wide field of honourable and lucrative employ¬
ment for educated women; also a means of intellectual
culture and social usefulness to ladies wfio may not be
dependent upon their own exertions. For want .of)
properly quahfled ladies the best portion of the practice
of midwifery has drifted into the hands of gentlejnem
though female practitioners still attend the bulk of'the.
population. But any person may undertake the duties.
of a midwife. Proper means of study have never been •
provided for women, and there has never been any
public examination, by which women when well qualified
might be distinguished from those who are illiterate and
unqualified.
The Society has carried on for five years the Ladies’
Medical College, which has taught the theory and prac¬
tice of Midwifery and the accessory branches of medi¬
cine. Eighty-two ladies have already availed themselves
of its advantages, and many of these ladies are settled
in practice, and succeeding admirably.
A life subscription of ten guineas, or an annual sub¬
scription of one guinea, cpnstitutes a member of .the
Society, but stamps or other small contributions will be
gladly received.
Lady subscribers of not less than one guinea are
invited to visit any Lectures in which they are likely to
be interested.
The addresses of. skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the. operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Cheques to be crossed London and County Bank.
MR. J. L. OLIYE, Professor of Modern
Spiritual Science, 6, The Junction, Cambridge-
road, Kilbum, W. Mr. Olive is prepared to afford infor¬
mation relative to Spiritualism, the Development of
Mediumistic power, &c., with facilities for investigation
of Phenomena. Beliable advice based on large medical
experience, and aided by beneficent Spirit Intelligences,
may also be obtained for the relief of ailments of Body
or Mind. Consultation Fee, One Shilling.
Contents.
Faraday’s Eefusal to Observe Facts   ... 9
Spirit-rapping in John Wesley’s Family. Part II ... 9
Beichenbach at a Spirit Circle 10
Beports. of Meetings:—East London Association
of Spiritualists.—The Dialectical Society  10
Lecture on Witchcraft... ...  11
Newspaper Abuse :—Untruth from the Daily News 11
Spiritualism in all Ages ... ...   12
General News:—The Dialectical Society.—Spirit
Identity.—Carlyle on Spiritualism.—Mrs. Gerald
Massey.—The Spiritual Magazine.—Anti-Spiritual¬
ism inWestHartlepool.—Lectures on Spiritualism.
—East London Association of Spiritualists.—Spirit
Circles in London.—Mesmerism and Clairvoyance.
—Spiritualism in Bristol.—Darwin on Man.—The
Value of Eeason.—An Eccentric Will   12
Leader:—The Philosophy of Spiritual Manifesta¬
tions ...     13
The Psychology of Children’s Books 13
Poetry :—On Injudicious Attempts to make Prose¬
lytes—Birdie's Song     14
Correspondence:—A Cornish Ghost Story.—Evi-
dencajat the Dialectical Society.—AHaunted Castle 14
Scientific Aid to Spiritualism  14
Paragraphs:—What the North Londoner thinks, 11
Mr. Pepper’s Last Ghost, 11.—Curious Suspension
of Speech, 11.—^Plasticity of the Mind, 11.—The
Effects of Mediumship, 11—“Assumptions,” 11.—
The “ Spiritualist,” 11.—Fear of the Unknown, 12.
Periodical Literature, 14.»—Thoughts of a Mole, 14.
Printed for the Proprietor by James Beveridge, at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High
Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and
St George the Martyr, London, and published by E i
W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
k
