A FjECOFiD Of THE PROQREgg Of THE gCIEJ^CE /ND ETHICg OF gPIFilTU/.U5M.
No. 30.—(Vol. ii., No. 2.) LONDON : THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1872. ^07? 1°^^
SPIRITUALISM AND THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
The Royal Society of England, “for improving
natural knowledge/’ was founded on the 5th of Decem¬
ber, 1660, and incorporated by Royal Charter in 1662,
in the reign of King. Charles II., Cromwell having
just, laid some of the foundations of political liberty
and freedom of thought; and at the present time the
Royal Society is, without doubt, the chief learned
.association in the world. Intermixed with much that
is.good, there is a minor proportion of that which is
bad in the spirit which regulates its actions, so that
sometimes the interests of' truth and science suffer for
the sake of increasing the exclusiveness, the respecta¬
bility, the grandeur, and the political influence of the
society and its members. These defects were pointed
out at some length in No. 9 of The Spiritualist, in an
article in which we stated :—
. The Royal Society is too dignified and respectable to inves¬
tigate natural phenomena, if such phenomena have to be
observed beneath the fire of popular ridicule. Cannot a man
be found in its ranks who will make the Society irrevocably
commit itself by rejecting a paper on “Certain remarkable
phenomena called Spiritual manifestations?” The Royal
Society .is now in such a state, that if Diogenes of old were
to apply for admission into its ranks, he would be told that he
must first give up his tub, then gain plenty of very respectable
associates, and, finally, have a moderate balance in the bank.
Socrates would most certainly be snubbed by the Royal
Society as a low street preacher.
Nearly two years have passed away since those
words were written, and their truth has just been
demonstrated. Since they were written Mr. William
Crookes, E.R.S., began to inquire into Spiritualism,
and at last sent in a paper to the Royal Society demon¬
strating the reality of the physical phenomena; he
kept strictly to physical facts, and entered into no
speculations at all as to their origin. No experiments
made under such stringent conditions had ever before
been submitted to the Royal Society, the care having
actually been Taken to add the testimony of scientific
witnesses—a course not usually supposed to. be neces¬
sary. Of,course the paper was rejected, and unlike the
first editions of it, to which Professor Stokes, one of the
secretaries to the society, raised unreasonable and
vexatious objections, this final paper was officially
rejected unanimously three or four weeks ago by the
council. Its acceptance would have been an indirect
vote of censure upon Professor Stokes, who had been
particularly active on the opposite side, to the extent in
one instance of insulting the whole body of Spiritualists
in an official report, but the whole council could hardly
have committed itself for the sake of screening one of
its officers. How and why the paper was so rejected
Dr. Carpenter stated in a lecture at Chelsea, as reported
on another page.
Now, this act of the council will live in history as
long as the name of the Royal Society remains in the
memory of man. It is a greater fall than the suppres¬
sion by the Royal Society of Benjamin Franklin’s paper
on lightning conductors, for the real point at issue was
known to be the possibility of establishing telegraphic
communication between the living and the so-called
“ dead ”—a question of the most momentous importance
to the whole human race. This act of the council will
be as indelibly and prominently associated with the
Royal Society in history as the imprisonment of Galileo
is associated with the name of the Holy Inquisition.
Therefore, for historical purposes, we quote the names
and addresses of the members and officers of the council,
who have thus so seriously committed the Royal
Society:—
President.
Mr. George Riddell Airy, M.A., D.C.L. (Oxon), Astronomer
Royal, Greenwich Observatory.
Secretaries.
Dr. William Sharpey, F.R.S., Lawnbank, Hampstead, N.W.
Professor George Gabriel Stokes, M.A., D.C.L., Lensfield-cot-
tage, Cambridge.
Treasurer.
Mr. Wm. Spottiswoode, F.R.S., 50, Grosvenor-place, S.W.
Members oe the Council.
Dr. George James Allman, 20, Gloucester-road, Regent’s-
park, N.W.
Mr. John Ball, M.A., 24, St. George’s-road, Eccleston-square,
S.W.
Dr. George Burrows, Physician Extraordinary to the Queen,
18, Cavendish-square, W.
Mr. George Busk, F.R.C.S., 32, Harley-street, W.
Professor R. B. Clifton, M.A., Portland-lodge, Park Town,
Oxford.
Dr. Heinrich Debus, Guy’s Hospital, S.E.
Professor P. M. Duncan, M.B., 40, Blessington-road, Lee,
S.E. .
Professor George Carey Foster, B.A., 16, King Henry’s-road,
N.W.
Mr. Francis Galton, Y.P.R.S., 42, Rutland-gate, S.W.
Dr. Thomas Archer Hirst, F.R.A.S., London University,
Burlington-gardens, W.
Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., High Elms, Bromley, Kent.
Sir J. Paget, Surgeon in Ordinary to H.R.H. the Prince of
Wales, 1, Harewood-place, Hanover-square, W.
The Earl of Rosse, Birr Castle, Parsonstown, Ireland; and
Heaton-hall, Bradford, Yorkshire.
General Sir E. Sabine, R.A., K.C.B., 13, Ashley-place,
Westminster, S.W.
Mr. Isaac Todhunter, M.A., Bourne House, Cambridge.
Sir Charles Wheatstone, D.C.L., 19, Park-crescent, Regent’s-
park,N.W.
The carping and frivolous objections made by Pro¬
fessor Stokes and others to Mr. Crookes’s earlier experi¬
ments, our readers know full well; "they are such
objections as would never have been raised had the
papers been upon any other subject. The chief objec¬
tion to the last one Dr. Carpenter explained, amid loud
applause, to the Chelsea Scientific Institution. "He
placed a glass of water at one end of a lever, balanced
it with weights at the other end, then showed that one
end of the lever was depressed when fingers were
dipped in the water; he added, that in the paper
unanimously rejected by the Council of the Royal
Society, Mr. Crookes had introduced a similar experi¬
ment, and mistaken the natural depression of the bal¬
ance, for the effect of an alleged new force.
Mr. Crookes never made any mistake of the kind,
and the story was wholly without foundation in truth.
A verbatim copy of Mr. Crookes’s paper rejected by the
Society, is now before us, with the illustrations. The
vessel of water is placed over the centre of the fulcrum,
and the drawings showing it in that position are staring
us in the face. Did the Council reject the paper with¬
out reading it, or looking at the drawings ?
Moreover, Mr. Crookes says in the paper, “ Immersing
the hand to the utmost in the water, does not raise the
level of the water sufficient to produce any movement
whatever of the index of the balance.” Therefore the
engravings, as well as the paper itself, distinctly prove
that Mr. Crookes never made the blunder, which Dr.
Carpenter told a public audience that he had committed.
Even if Mr. Crookes had put the vessel nearer one end
of the lever, and not allowed for the immersion of the
fingers, Dr. Carpenter’s objection would have been a
vexatious one, because it was a case of measuring
pounds of force and not ounces, and there was no neces¬
sity to make the paper complicated by going into
minute details. In some of his earlier experiments,
Mr. Crookes found that even when the water was not
over the centre of the fulcrum, the immersion of the
fingers scarcely affected the results, because of the
friction of the apparatus, which was made to register
heavy pressures rather than light ones.
Since the news has oozed out that Mr. Crookes never
made the mistake. Dr. Carpenter has asserted that he
received the inaccurate information from Professor
Stokes and Sir Charles Wheatstone. See his letter to
Mr. Coleman to that effect in another column.
The other objection to the experiments published by
Dr. Carpenter, that Mr. Crookes mistook for “ psychic
force,” some air-waves from the medium’s hands setting
up motion in a stretched surface of parchment, is so
palpably raised for vexatious purposes, and as an insult
to Mr. Crookes as an observer, that it needs no
refutation.
No new truth has ever been discovered, and its use
searched out, without resulting in some blessing to the
human race. How it is that such men as those on the
council of the Royal Society are of such a mental con¬
stitution that they can only investigate in certain
grooved lines, arbitrarily chosen by themselves, requires
more space than we can give now to such a metaphy¬
sical subject, but their consequent inability to give any
explanation to the public of the nature of certain mag¬
nificent phenomena which have been startling the
world for twenty-three years, stands against them as
a great national charge of neglect of duty. The daily
newspapers are not usually considered leading authorities
on matters of science, yet both The Telegraph and The
Standard recently had to tell the future President of
the British Association, in effect, that his theories on this
subject were false, and his scientific teachings worth-1
less; the swift rate at which Spiritualism is spreading
now, will assuredly bring similar grave charges against
the whole English scientific world, unless its members
perform their duties to the nation more efficiently.
Spiritualists view the pi’oceedings of the scientific
world with absolute indifference. The men in it who
love truth above all things else, investigate for them¬
selves ; slowly, and in most cases privately, they
become supporters of the movement; the others, who
do not so perseveringly search out truth, are better out
of our ranks for the present. This is one reason, of
many, why we object for the present to attempt to
obtain manifestations in public; under the present
system we get picked men and women, who earn the
valuable knowledge by honest work. Why should the
truth be demonstrated to idle people, who consider
their reception of the boon a great favour ?
Dr. Carpenter’s dealings with Spiritualism may be
divided into two parts : first into what he has said
about scientific men connected with Spiritualism, and
secondly into what he has said about Spiritualists at
large. All the trouble in which he finds himself at
present, and all the angry feelings he has aroused,
originated with the personal attacks he made upon his
scientific brethren. Towards Spiritualists he has not
been abusive, except in assuming that his inadequate
theories, unfounded upon practical knowledge, demolish
the facts of Spiritualism. Two or three years ago he
incidentally brought Spiritualism before the Royal
Institution, while lecturing there on another subject,
and he said there was not the slightest reason to doubt
the honesty of the witnesses; some of them he knew
personally to be very truthful people. At Chelsea,
the other evening, he carefully abstained from making
any offensive remarks about Spiritualists, and said that
the proper scientific attitude towards Spiritualism w|is
to suspend judgment ^ about it for the present.; .‘‘‘f-ifh.
probability is that' Dr/ Mbw
related to- Spiritualism in a way he would not have
voluntarily selected a year ago, and that a tide of
angry discussion has drifted him to his present position.
Could not all these hard words be forgotten on both
sides? Could not Dr. Carpenter, Prof. Huxley, and a
few others, take part with Lord Lindsay, Mr. Yarley,
Mr. Crookes, Mr. Serjeant Cox, and others, in forming
the Pyschological Society ? Or would each side feel it
beneath its dignity to make any advances towards the
other ? The real dignity will lie with that side which
has the nobility to act in the interests of truth by
sinking such petty thoughts, and leaving the opposite
one without any excuse for neglecting its duty.
THE APPEARANCE OF A SPIRIT THROUGH
MRS. GUPPY’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Mb. Guppy having read the long account in the last
number of the Spiritualist of the manner in which
spirits have begun in America to make themselves
visible in public, and in a strong light, to their survi¬
ving relatives and other witnesses, thought he would
try, with Mrs. Guppy’s consent, to obtain such mani¬
festations at home. Partial success has attended his
attempts, and we hope that complete success will shortly
be the result.
As he had no dark cabinet like that described in
our last, wherein spirits could materialise themselves,
and when ready appear to the observers in the light,
he sent for a carpenter to cut four or five square
windows at different elevations, in the wooden sides of
a dark room which he used for preparing photographic
plates, while amusing himself at amateur photography.
This dark square chamber was at one corner of a room
in his house; the two wooden sides reached from floor
to ceiling, the other two sides being formed by the
walls of the house. The dark room is possibly five or
six feet square,—we have not measured it. After the
openings were cut by the carpenter, a little red curtain
was hung behind each window, to shut out the light.
At the first trial, in private, some slight results were
obtained, and the spirit “Katie” told him by raps
that if he invited Miss Kate Fox to sit in the cabinet
with Mrs. Guppy, and if he also invited some good
witnesses to attest what took place, he should have one
of the finest seances, ever recorded. Mr. Guppy did as
desired, but Miss Fox, owing to ill health, was unable
to come. As spirits have materialised themselves in
10
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15, 1872.
Miss Pox’s presence, sufficiently to be able to bear tbe
full blaze of a lantern, as narrated on another page,
her absence of course very greatly weakened the
power.
About a dozen distinguished guests, including the
Countess De Pomar, and Mr. Cholmondeley Pennel,
were present one evening about a fortnight ago. Had
the seance been wholly successful we should have asked
permission to draw up a document for publication, with
the names and addresses of all the witnesses appended.
In this incipient stage of the experiments, it was
scarcely worth while to do so.
Mr. Guppy asked all the guests in turn to enter
his empty dark room, and search it. After this had
been done, raps told Mrs. Guppy and a lady friend of
hers to enter it. The latter lady objects to the publi¬
cation of her name as a medium, because of the whole¬
sale abuse the newspapers have showered on Mrs. Guppy,
in consequence of her possession of the gift.
The guests sat outside the cabinet in two rows, and
Mr. Guppy armed himself with a policeman’s lantern
to turn full blaze upon anything which might appear
at the windows of the cabinet.
m Put out the light,” said the raps. “ But we cannot
see if we do,” said Mr. Guppy. After several modi¬
fications were suggested by him to evade the order, the
raps said, “ Put it out. The moonlight will do.”
There were no clouds at the time, and the full moon
shining directly in through the two windows. All the
objects in the room could be seen, also the pattern of
the paper pasted over the cabinet, as well as the white
edges of the windows sawn in the wood by the car¬
penter, and the red curtains behind the windows.
“ Keep your faces at the lower window,” said the
raps to the two mediums, who accordingly placed their
faces at the opening, and both began laughing and
talking to the friends outside. At once a third living
face appeared at one of the upper openings, and all
three faces were seen at the same time for perhaps two
minutes by all the witnesses. The light was not strong
enough for those outside to identify the features of the
spirit. The face appeared as white as alabaster—much
whiter than the faces of the two mediums below—it
was a small face, and a living face; there was some¬
thing white upon the head, which might have been
lace, or a small cap. Baps said, “I am Lily.”
“Lily” was the late Mrs. Bitchie, better known as
Mrs. Anna Cora Mowatt, the actress and authoress.
She was a friend of the Countess' De Pomar, and a
Spiritualist; before her death she often said she would
come back again at seances very often if she could.
She was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery on Monday,
July 25th, 1870, as narrated in No. 12 of The Spirit¬
ualist; Mr. C. P. Varley, Lady Cecil Gordon, and other
friends followed her remains to the grave.
After the face had been at the opening for about two
minutes it moved away sideways with a tremulous
motion. After some minutes it came tremulously back
again, and the Countess De Pomar said, “ Are you
Lily ? There is not enough light for me to identify
you.” The face bowed three times, then it went away
again. After prolonged intervals it appeared two or
three times more, but only for a moment each time;
once a larger face appeared for an instant, said to be
the face of “ Katie.” Baps then said “I am tired”
and the seance was over.
The ladies in the cabinet said they saw the spirit at
full length, apparently floating in the air, and to them
she appeared phosphorescent. To the witnesses outside
the face of the spirit was as opaque as the faces of the
mediums below, and if it could have borne a strong
light, the face could undoubtedly have been photo¬
graphed.
We have been .reading much of late about the mate¬
rialising of the bodies of spirits at seances in America.
Sometimes they and their dress appear of alabaster
whiteness and purity, sometimes they have a stony
stolid look, with some colour about them, and some¬
times with full colour, sparkling eyes, and lively faces,
full of health and happiness. We have gathered the
impression (which is likely enough to be wrong) that
the weaker the power the whiter and less life-like is
the appearance.
If the experiments result in complete success, so that
the faces can bear a strong light, and be recognised by
friends present, as is already the case in America, they
will throw the ordinary physical manifestations of
Spiritualism into the shade.
St. John’s Association of Spieituaxists.—On Thurs¬
day, February 1st, Mr. R. Harper lectured to the St. John’s
Association of Spirituahsts, at St. John’s-hall, Corporation-
row, Clerkenwell, on “ The Social Influences of Spiritualism.”
Mr. R. Barber presided, and there was a large attendance of
working men. Mr. Harper said that there was a want of
union for mutual benefit in the nation, causing great suffering.
The rich were growing richer, and the poor-poorer. He then
proceeded to calculate that the present land, currency, and
some other laws, taxed the great bulk of the people for the
benefit of a few to the extent of several hundred of millions
of pounds a year. He thought it high time that purer prin¬
ciples were introduced into politics and trade. . The lecturer
carried his hearers with him, as proved by their frequent
signs of approval. A vote of thanks was proposed by the
Chairman, seconded by Mr. Grafton, and passed.
ON MIRACLES.*
BY PBOFESSOH TYNDALL, F.B.S.
With regard to the influence of modern science
which Mr. Mozley rates so low, one effect of it is
certainly to enhance the magnitude of many of the
recorded miracles, and to increase proportionabiy the
difficulties of belief. The ancients knew but little of
the vastness of the universe. The Bev. Mr. Kirkman,
for example, has shown what inadequate notions the
Jews entertained regarding the “ firmament of heaven; ”
and Professor Airy refers to the case of a Greek philo¬
sopher who was persecuted for hazarding the assertion,
then deemed monstrous, that the sun might be as large
as the whole country of Greece. The concerns of a
universe, regarded from this point of view, were vastly
more commensurate with man and his concerns than
those of the universe which science now reveals to us;
and hence that to suit man’s purposes, or in compliance
with his prayers, changes should occur in the order of
the universe, was more easy of belief in the ancient world
than it can be now. In the very magnitude which it
assigns to natural phenomena, science has augmented
the distance between them and man, and increased the
popular belief in their orderly progression. As a natural
consequence the demand for evidence is more exacting
than it used to be, whenever it is affirmed that such
order has been disturbed.
Let us take as an illustration the miracle by which
the victory of Joshua over the Amorites was rendered
complete, where the sun is reported to have stood still
for “ a whole day” upon Gibeon, and-the moon in the
valley of Ajalon. An Englishman of average educa¬
tion at the present day would naturally demand a
greater amount of evidence to prove that this occurrence
took place than would have satisfied an Israelite in the
age succeeding that of Joshua. Eor to the one the
miracle probably consisted of the stoppage of a ball of
fire less than a yard in diameter, while to the other
it would be |the stoppage of an orb fourteen hundred
thousand times the earth in size. And even accepting
the interpretation which instructed divines now put
upon this text, that Joshua dealt with what was ap¬
parent merely, but that what really occurred was the
suspension of the earth’s rotation, I think a greater
reserve in accepting the miracle, and a right to demand
stronger evidence in support of it, will be conceded to
a modern man of science than would have sufficed for
an ancient Jew.
There is a scientific imagination as well as a historic
imagination, and when by the exercise of the former
the stoppage of the earth’s rotation is clearly realised,
the event assumes proportions so vast in comparison
with the result to be obtained by it that belief reels
under the reflection. The energy here involved is equal
to that of six trillions of horses working for the whole
of the time employed by Joshua in the destruction of
his foes. The amount of power thus expended would
be sufficient to supply every individual of an army a
thousand times the strength of that of Joshua, with
a thousand times the fighting power of each of Joshua’s
soldiers, not for the few hours necessary to the extinc¬
tion of a handful of Amorites, but for millions of years.
All this wonder is silently passed over by the sacred
historian, confessedly because he knew nothing about
it. Whether therefore we consider the miracle as
purely evidential, or as a practical means of vengeance,
the same lavish squandering of energy stares the scien- j
tific man in the face. If evidential, the energy was
wasted, because the Israelites knew nothing of its
amount; if simply destructive, then the ratio of the
quantity lost to that -employed may be inferred from
the foregoing figures.
To other miracles similar remarks apply. Trans¬
ferring thought from our little sand-grain of an earth
to the immeasurable heavens, where countless worlds,
with their freights of life, probably revolve unseen, the
very suns which warm them being barely seen by us
across abysmal space; reflecting that beyond these
sparks of solar fire suns innumerable may lie, whose
light can never stir the optic nerve at all; and bringing
this conception face to faee with the idea that the
Builder and Sustainer of it all should contract himself
to a burning bush, or behave in other familiar ways
ascribed to him—it is easy to understand how astound¬
ing the incongruity must appear to the scientific man.
Did this credulous prattle of the ancients about miracles
stand alone; were it not locally associated with words
of imperishable wisdom, and with examples of moral
grandeur unmatched elsewhere in the history of the
human race, both the miracles and their “ evidences ”
would have long since ceased to be the transmitted in¬
heritance of intelligent men. Under the pressure of
the awe which this universe inspires, well may we ex¬
claim in David’s spirit, if not in David’s words:—
“ When I consider the heavens the work of thy fingers,
the moon, and the stars, which thou hast ordained;
what is man that thou shouldst be mindful of him, or
the son of man that thou shouldst so regard him.”
If you ask me who is to limit the outgoings of
* We extract this from the excellent book by Dr. John Tyndall, F.B.S.,
entitled, Fragments of Science for Unscientific People, published by Messrs.
Longmans.—Ed.
Almighty power, my answer is, not I. If you should
urge that if the Builder and the Maker of this universe
chose to stop the rotation of the earth, or to take the
form of a burning bush, there is nothing to prevent
Him from doing so, I am not prepared to contradict
you. I neither agree with you nor differ from you, for
it is a subject of which I know nothing. But I observe
that in such questions regarding Almighty power, your
enquiries relate, not to that power as it is actually dis¬
played in the universe, but to the power of your own
imagination. Your question is not, has the Omnipotent
done so and so ? or, is it in the least likely that the
Omnipotent should do so and so ? but, is my imagina¬
tion competent to picture a being able and willing to
do so and so ? I am not prepared to deny your com¬
petence. To the human mind belongs the faculty of
enlarging and diminishing, of distorting and combining
indefinitely the objects revealed by the senses, or by its
own consciousness. It can imagine a mouse as large as
an elephant, an elephant as large as a mountain, and a
mountain as high as the stars. It can separate con-
gruites and unite incongruities. We see a fish and we
see a woman; we can drop one-half of each, and unite
in idea the other two halves to a mermaid. We see a
horse and we see a man ; we are able to drop one-half
of each, and unite the other two halves to a centaur.
Thus also the pictorial representations of the Deity, the
bodies and wings of cherubs and seraphs, the hoofs,
horns, and tail of the Evil One, the joys of the blessed,
and the torments of the damned, have been elaborated
from materials furnished to the imagination by the
senses. And it behoves you and me to take care that
our notions of the Power which rules the universe are
not mere fanciful or ignorant enlargements of human
power. The capabilities of what you call your reason
are not denied. By the exercise of the power here ad¬
verted to, and which may be called the mythologic
imagination, you can picture to yourself a being able
and willing to do any and every conceivable thing.
You are right in saying that in opposition to this power
science is of no avail. Mr. Mozley would call it “ a
weapon of air.” The man of science, however, while
accepting the figure, would probably reverse its parts,
thinking that it is not science which is here the thing
of air, but the unsubstantial figment of the imagination
to which its solidity is opposed.
THE SYSTEMATIC APPEARANCE OF SPIRITS AT
SEANCES.
Last month we gave many interesting details relating
to the above subject, and in continuation thereof, may
state that the spirits have often told the Mr. Keeler
mentioned in that article, that in time they expect to
be able to thoroughly materialise themselves, so as to be
able to walk and talk for a short time with men, as
they are said to have done in the days of old.
Mrs. M. A. Tebb, of 20, Bochester-road, Camden-
road, N.W., writes to us :—“ I have lately seen a letter
from Miss Hay, who visited the Keelers, and her
testimony entirely confirms that which you have given
in the Spiritualist. She distinctly saw her aged mother,
lately deceased, and other relatives.” Miss Hay was
well known to most London Spiritualists two years
ago, and the letter just mentioned was written to Mr.
Andrew Leighton, a gentleman well known and much
respected in Liverpool.
In the valuable book just published by the Hon.
Bobert Dale Owen, entitled The Debatable Land, he
tells how he saw a materialised spirit on the 21st of
October, 1860, at the house of Mr. Samuel Underhill,
New York. The persons present were Mr. Underhill;
Mrs. Underhill (the medium, and a sister of Miss Kate
Eox) ; her nephew, Charles, twelve years old, and him¬
self. After telling how, at the request of Mr. Under¬
hill, he searched the room and furniture, and locked the
doors, Mr. Dale Owen says :—
After a few minutes I perceived a light, apparently of
a phosphorescent character, on my left, near the door. It
was at first of a rectangular form, with the edges rounded.
I judged it to be about four inches long, and two and a-half
inches wide. It seemed like an open palm illuminated ; but
though the light which emanated from it showed quite dis¬
tinctly its entire surface, I could distinguish no fingers. For
a time it moved about near the floor ; then it rose into the air
and floated about the room, sometimes over our heads.
After a time it changed its appearance and increased in
brightness. It then resembled an opaque oval substance,
about the size of a child’s head, muffled up in the folds of
some very white and shining material like fine linen, only
brighter. As it moved about I began to hear, at first imper¬
fectly, afterward somewhat more distinctly, the rustling as of
a silk dress, or of other light article of female apparel, giving
the impression that one or more persons were moving silently
about the room. Then the light passed behind Mrs. Underhill;
then I saw it close to Mr. Underhill, and just opposite to me.
Mr. Underhill said : “ Can you not go to Mr. Owen ? do try.”
Thereupon it moved slowly around to my left side. This time
the folds appeared to have dropped ; and what seemed a face
(still covered, however, with a luminous veil) came bending
down within five or six inches of my own face as I turned
towards it. As it approached, I plainly distinguished the
semi-luminous outline of an entire figure of the usual female
stature. I saw very distinctly the arms moving. At the
lower extremity of its right arm, as if on the palm of the
hand, the figure bore what seemed a rectangular substance,
about four inches by two, as nearly as I could estimate. This
substance was more brightly illuminated than the rest of the
figure. It may have been only the illuminated palm, but I
Feb. 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
11
do not think it was ; it seemed more like a transparent box
with phosphorescent light within it. Whatever it was, the
figure raised it above its head, and then passed it slowly down
close to what seemed the face, and then over the upper part
of the body, as one might pass a lantern over any object with
intent to make it visible. This action it repeated several
times. By aid of the illumination thus afforded, I saw more
distinctly than before the general form of the face and figure,
but both appeared covered with a half-transparent veil, and I
could distinguish no features; nor were the outlines of the
body, nor of the limbs, sharply defined. The motion of
the right arm with the light was the most marked and
frequent.
While this was taking place I held Mrs. Underhill’s hand
and Charles’s. As the various phases of the phenomena suc¬
ceeded each other, I remarked on what I saw, and Mr. Under¬
hill, from the opposite side of the table, responded to my
remarks, so that I am quite certain he was seated there.
I expressed a wish that the figure would touch me; and
Mr. Underhill said from his place : “ We are very anxious
that the spirit should touch Mr. Owen if it can.”
Thereupon I felt what seemed a human hand laid on my
head. And as I looked steadily at the figure which stood on
my left side, I saw its head bent toward my left shoulder. A
moment afterward Ifelt, and simultaneously heard, j ust behind
the point of that shoulder, a kiss imprinted.
I could not for any physical fact obtain the evidence of
three senses—sight, touch, and hearing—more distinctly than
in this case I did.
Immediately afterward I saw this luminous body pass behind
me, and what seemed, by the touch, to be hands, gently laid hold
of both my shoulders, and turned me round to the right.
I looked on that side, and the figure now stood by my right
shoulder.
After pausing there for a few seconds, it moved toward the
window farthest from me, and we heard sounds as if some
one were attempting to open the window-blind. Mr. Under¬
hill, from his place, remarked that it would probably be able
to effect this, for it had done so on a previous occasion. The
blind was in four compartments, each of which could be opened
or closed by raising] or lowering a wire attached to movable
slats. The figure opened the upper, left-hand quarter of the
blind, so that a faint light shone in from the street lamps. I
was looking at the window when this occurred.
Up to this time the appearance, gradually becoming more
luminous, had been in sight, moving about the room fully five
minutes. There was not the slightest footfall when it moved.
My hearing is very acute ; I listened for every sound ; and as,
in the intervals of conversation, the silence was unbroken, I
could have detected the fall of the lightest footstep.
From this time the light which illuminated the figure
gradually faded ; and soon I could no longer distinguish any
form. The slight, rustling sound, unaccompanied by footsteps,
still, however; continued.
On June 25tli, 1867, Mr. Owen had a seance with a
lady in private life, a Miss B , in a corner house in
Washington-street, Boston. After describing the pre¬
liminary precautions he took in examining the room
and furniture, he says :—
All was quiet during the early part of the sitting, which
commenced a little after eight p.m. Scarcely any rapping.
A few phosphorescent lights.
About a quarter past nine, all the mediums being seated
by us, I saw dimly, near the right-hand corner of the front
line of the large room, at first a greyish, slightly-luminous
vapour; after a time, a figure draped in white. At first it was
stationary; then it moved very slowly past the two right-
hand windows to the centre of the front line of the room,
between two windows. There it remained one or two minutes,
still but indistinctly visible. Then, very slowly and without
sound of footsteps, it advanced down the room, coming directly
toward the centre of the folding-doors. It stopped about
twelve or fourteen feet from where Lwas sitting. Thereupon,
of a sudden, a brilliant light, coming from the right, striking
directly on the figure, and only on it—not directly illumi¬
nating the rest of the room—enabled me to see the appearance
as perfectly as if the entire room had been lit with gas.
It was a female figure, of medium height, veiled and draped
from head to foot in white. The drapery did not resemble,
in material, anything I have ever seen, worn. It gave me, as
on a previous occasion, the exact feeling of the Scriptural
expression, “ shining raiment.” Its brilliancy was a good
deal like that of new-fallen snow in the sunshine, recalling the
text which declares the garments of Christ, during His trans¬
figuration, to have been “ exceeding white as snowor, again,
it was not unlike the finest and freshest Parian marble with
a bright light on it, only more brilliant. It had not at all the
glitter of spangles or any shining ornament ; the tone being
as uniform as that of a newly-sculptured statue. It stood
upright, in ungraceful attitude, motionless. Had I suddenly
seen it elsewhere, and without having witnessed its previous
movements, I might have imagined it a beautiful piece of
sculpture, of singularly pure material, and marvellously
lighted up. The drapery fell around the figure closely, as
usual in a statue; not at all according to the modern fashion
of amplitude. I think it was shown to us, under the bright
light, as long as fifteen or twenty seconds. .
Mrs. K- stepped out to meet it, going close up to it, and
then returning to us. The figure followed her; and as Mrs.
K , when she passed the folding-doors, had stepped aside
to the right, the apparition advanced, with a gliding motion,
into the parlour, till, as nearly as I could judge, it was within
two or three feet of me. There it stopped.
As it remained immovable I raised my left arm, hoping that
I should be touched., As 1 stretched it out, the figure extended
its right arm, covered with drapery, toward me, and dropped
into my hand what proved to be a white rose, but its hand
did not touch mine.
Thereupon the appearance, still keeping its face to us,
slowly retired with the same silent, gliding motion which
had marked its advance; not the slightest sound of footstep
on the waxed floor being audible.
A second time it stopped, again about twelve or fifteen feet
from me; and a second time an instantaneous light, coming
from the right and falling upon it, gave it to be seen with the
utmost distinctness. I was enabled to verify my former
observations in regard to its appearance, and the unique, rich,
resplendent character of the drapery.
Then it slowly receded, still facing us, to the centre of the
opposite wall, gradually diminishing in brightness, and finally
it vanished before my eyes.
Mr. Owen, also gives portions of the diary of Mr. C.
F. Livermore, the New York banker, narrating. how
the latter had some most magnificent manifestations, in
the course of which the departed Mrs. Livermore fre¬
quently made herself visible to him through the
mediumship of Miss Kate Fox. Extracts from Mr.
Livermore’s diary have been printed at great length
in the back numbers of the Spiritualist. The following
additional particulars from Mr. Dale Owen’s book about
the appearance of his wife Estelle, and Dr. Franklin, by
artificial light, are, however, very interesting :—
By the raps it was announced that the dark-robed figure
which had once or twice appeared, was that of Dr. Franklin ;
but no further proof of his identity was obtained until the
sitting No. 162, of November 11. Then his face was first
seen, by a light which seemed to be held by another figure.
“ If any judgment can be formed from original portraits of
the man,” Mr. L. says, “ there would seem to be no mistake
about his identity. He was dressed in brown coat of the
olden style, with white cravat: his head very large, with
whitish or grey hair behind the ears ; the whole face radiant
with intelligence, benevolence, and spirituality.”
The next evening he came again. Here is the record:
“ The raps requested that a chair be placed for Dr. Franklin
on the side of the table opposite to where we sat. But the
idea of such a vis-a-vis made Miss Fox so nervous that I did
not insist. After a time she became quiet, and we heard the
chair moved tO’ the desired spot.
“ At this time the lights were dim ; but I perceived a dark
figure standing near me. Yery soon it moved round tne table,
a rustling was heard, the lights brightened, and we saw what
seemed the old philosopher himself seated in the chair ; his
entire form and dress in perfection. So vivid was the light,
and so palpable (as it would seem) the form before us, that
its shadow was thrown upon the wall, precisely as if it had
been a mortal seated there. The position was easy and dig¬
nified, one arm and hand on the table. Once he bent for¬
ward, as if bowing to us, and I observed that his grey locks
swayed with the movement. He sat opposite to us more than
an hour. Finally I asked him if he would draw nearer:
whereupon figure and chair moved towards us, and our silent
neighbour was in close proximity. Before he disappeared he
rose from his chair ; both face and form distinctly visible.”
This was at Mrs. Fox’s ; but the sitting of November 30th
was held in Mr. Livermore’s own house. He tells us what he
then and there saw :
“No. 175. Doors locked and sealed. Heavy concussions
and electrical sounds ; a chair opposite moved into position ;
then a request for matches. These were taken from my hand,
as I held them at arm’s length.
“After a time, the sound of friction, as in drawing a
match was heard ; and, after several apparent efforts, a match
ignited. By its light we saw that it was held by the figure
supposed that of Franklin, which appeared in perfection,
dressed as before, only that the colour of his coat showed
more perfectly. But as soon as the match went out the figure
disappeared.
“ Afterwards he reappeared (by match-light) ten or twelve
times. The third time my hat was on his head, worn as by
a living person ; and then it was removed from his head to
mine. The last time he appeared, the figure of Estelle showed
itself, leaning on his shoulder; but Miss Fox became nervous,
and her exclamations (apparently) caused the final disap¬
pearance of both figures. Then there came the following :—
“ This is what we have long laboured to accomplish. You can
now say that you have seen me by the light of earth. I will
come again, in further proof. “ B. F.”
This promise was kept on December 12; again in Mr.
Livermore’s house. His record is :
“ No. 179. At my own house. I had procured a dark
lantern, covered with a cloth casing, and provided with a
valve so that I could throw a circle of light two feet in dia¬
meter on a wall ten feet distant.
“ I placed this lantern, lighted, on the table, and held the
medium’s hands. Soon it rose into the air and we were re¬
quested to follow. A spirit, carrying the lantern, preceded
us. The outline of this spirit-form was distinct, its white
robes dropping to the floor. The lantern was placed on a
bureau ; and we stood facing a window which was between
that bureau and a large mirror.
“ Then the lantern again rose, remaining suspended about
five feet from the floor between the bureau and the mirror ;
and, by its light, we discerned the figure of Franklin seated
in my armchair by the window, in front of a dark curtain.
For fully ten minutes at a time, the light from the suspended
lantern rested on his face and figure, so that we had ample
time to examine both. At first the face seemed as if of actual
flesh, the hair real, the eyes bright and so distinct that I
clearly saw the whites. But I noticed that gradually the
whole appearance, including the eyes, was deadened by the
earthly light, and ceased to wear the aspect of life with which
the forms I had seen by spiritual light were replete.
“ Several times I was requested to adjust the valve, so as
to allow more or less light; and this I did while the lantern
remained suspended, or held by spirit-power.
“ At the close of this sitting we found written on a card :
“ ‘ My son : it is for the benefit of the world. I have worked
for this.’ “ B.F.”
Mr. Dale Owen also quotes the following from Mr.
Livermore’s diary:—
And here is another incident that occurred during sitting
335, of December 31, 1862
“ I turned down the gas partially only. By its light I dis¬
tinguished a hand, with white sleeve encircling the wrist. It
held a flower which, with its stem, was about three inches long.
I reached my hand to take it; but at the moment my fingers
touched it, there was a sharp snap, as from a powerful electric
spark. Then I turned on the full gas. The hand, floating
about, still held the flower; and after a time, placed it on
a sheet of paper which lay on the table. It proved to be
a pink rose-bud with green leaves : fo the touch it was cold,
damp, and glutinous. Then a' peculiar white flower, resem¬
bling a daisy, was presented. After a time they all melted
away. While this occurred the room was as light as day.'"
Under date October 21, 1863 (session 365), Mr. Livermore
says : “ I brought with me, this evening, the dark lantern
already described; and, as soon as the figure of Estelle ap¬
peared, I threw its light full on her. She quailed a little, but
stood her ground for some time, while I directed the light to
her face and eyes, afterward to different parts of her dress.
Then she disappeared, and I had the communication : ‘ It was
with the greatest difficulty that I could hold myself in form
without disappearing.’”
Mr. Owen next tells how Mr. Groute (Mr. Liver¬
more’s brother-in-law) and Dr. Gray, of New York,
saw some of the materialised spirit-forms, as follows :—
Dr. Gray is well known in the city of New York, as one
among its most esteemed and successful medical men, and I
doubt if there be anyone in the United States who has devoted
more time and attention than he to the phenomena and the
philosophy of Vital Magnetism and Spiritualism.
The first opportunity he had of joining Mr. Livermore’s
circle was during circle No. 256, of June 6, 1862. On that
occasion the figure of Dr. Franklin appeared, but evidently
with difficulty, and without the full expression which he had
previously worn. The hair, however, and clothing were both
nearly as usual, and were handled by Dr. Gray.
Eleven days later Dr. Gray was present a second time. On
this occasion the figure of Dr. Franklin showed itself several
times ; but the features, at first, were not recognisable, and,
on another occasion, a portion of the face only was formed,
presenting a deformed and disagreeable aspect. This had not
occurred during any of Mr. Livermore’s previous sittings.
Estelle did not show herself on either of these occasions.
The third time (June 25) the figure of Franklin appeared in
perfection, and was recognised by Dr. Gray.
During the fourth sitting, there was a message to the effect
that a piece of the spirit’s garment might be cut off with
scissors and examined. Both Dr. Gray and Mr. Livermore
availed themselves of this permission. For a time the tex¬
ture was strong, so that it might be pulled without coming
apart. They had both time to examine it critically before it
melted away.
Other observations touching the partial and the gradual
formation of apparitions were made during subsequent sessions
by Dr. Gray, and will be adverted to in the next chapter.
During subsequent sittings the figure of Dr. Franklin
appeared to Dr. Gray as perfectly,- and under as bright light,
as it had ever done to Mr. Livermore. But Estelle showed
herself before the Doctor on a single occasion only ; during
sitting 384, November 10, 1865. This was at Mr. Liver¬
more’s house. She appeared with a white gossamer covering
over her head and a transparent veil; the lower portion of the
dress loose and flowing.
Mr. Groute was present during sitting No. 346, of February
28, 1863 ; and he held the medium’s hands. As soon as the
gas was extinguished, Mr. Livermore was pulled, apparently
by a large hand, to the sofa ; above which Franklin then
appeared, the light rising from the floor. When Mr. Groute
saw him and became convinced that it was the appearance of
a human figure, he went instantly to the doors to assure him¬
self that they were still locked. He then returned and handled
the garments of the figure.
But he seems to have been of sceptical temperament; for,
a week later, he came again, resolved to make all safe. He
himself secured doors and windows : he “ had no idea,” he
said, “ of being deceived.”
This time the figure of Franklin appeared much more vividly,
than before. It held in its hand a light as if that it might
be thoroughly examined, and the “ unbelieving Thomas ” be
fully satisfied. Mr. Groute, who had been holding both Mr.
Livermore’s and Miss Fox’s hands from the beginning of the
sitting, approached the figure, saw and touched; and, like the
apostle, frankly acknowledged his conviction.
During one sitting (No. 355, of May 1,1863), both Dr. Gray
and Mr. Groute present: the form of Dr. Franklin was perfect
and was fully recognised by both gentlemen. Next evening.
Dr. Gray being the only visitor, the figure of Dr. Franklin,
appeared in the air, about two feet above Dr. Gray’s head, as
if stooping towards the Doctor and looking down upon
him. He was clothed in a dark mantle, and floated, for some
time, about the room. Dr. Gray, familiar as he was with
spiritual phenomena, declared this manifestation to be “ stu¬
pendous.”
The: last time the figure of Estelle appeared, was during
session No. 388, held April 2, 1866. From that day forth,
though Mr. Livermore has received, even up to the time I
write, frequent messages of sympathy and affection, he has
seen the well-known form no more.
Mr. Dale Owen afterwards says:—
Those who have been fortunate enough to witness this pro¬
duct of spiritual art under its various phases, allege that it
may sometimes, under favourable conditions, be marvellously
perfect and even transcendently beautiful. Dr. Gray, one of
the most accurate and dispassionate of observers, told me
that on one of the occasions, already referred to, when the
image of Franklin presented itself, he looked steadily in the
eyes of the figure and noticed their life-like and expressive
character; even that their expression changed in accordance
with what was passing at the time. “ The living glance of
these eyes,” he said to me, “wrought in me a thorough con¬
viction that it was the old philosopher himself, and no other
who sat in the opposite chair.”
By what process this temporary induement (if it be correct
to regard it as induement) is effected, we certainly do not
know at this time ; and perhaps we never shall, until we
learn it, on the other side, from the spiritual artists them¬
selves. All that one seems justified in surmising is that
there are invisible exudations from the human organisation
—more or less from all persons, but especially from the
bodies of spiritual sensitives—which spirits can condense,
or otherwise modify, so as to produce not only what to the
senses of human beings is a visible and tangible form, but
also substances resembling earthly clothing and other inani¬
mate objects. It appears that they can thus produce also what
we might call sculptured representations of portions of the
human figure, as of hands and parts of hands, and the like.
Let us bear in mind, however, that the fact of a phenomenon
is independent of its explanation.
I have myself had one opportunity of witnessing the last-
mentioned phenomenon.
On the evening of July 27, 1861,1 was at Mr. Underhill’s
house. Mrs. Underhill proposed that, instead of sitting there,
we should adjourn to her mother’s residence, No. 66, West 46th
Street, where we should probably be able to add her sister
Kate to the circle. We did so.
Preparations were made to sit in the lower parlour; but as
I observed that there were no keys in the doors, I proposed
to sit in the upper parlour, which was at once assented to; and
we moved thither.
By the raps I was requested to secure the doors, which I
did, putting the keys in my pocket. I also carefully exa¬
mined the whole room, which had no press or closet. Then
we were bidden to put out the grs. Within a few minutes
afterward there were three or four most violent raps, as by a
heavy bludgeon, on the table ; then a quiet interval of some
fifteen minutes ; after which there suddenly appeared, between
Kate and Mrs. Underhill, the figure of an arm and shoulder.
The hand was not distinct. The arm was well-shaped and
seemed that of a woman of medium size ; the elbow bent and
the lower arm turned upward. Behind it was a light, but I
12
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 15,1872.
could distinguish no central point whence this light emanated,
as it might from a lamp or candle. The arm showed quite
distinctly, from the wrist to the shoulder against this light:—
distinctly, but not in sharp outline; the outlines being sof¬
tened off, as in a mezzotint engraving. There depended from
the arm drapery, hanging down some five or six inches;
it was gauze-like and semi-transparent. This arm and shoulder
approached, moving just above the table and passing Mrs.
Underhill in front, until it came within seven or eight inches
of me; the drapery waving to and fro, with the motion of
the arm.1
There it remained for about a minute; then disappeared
and reappeared, at intervals of some four or five minutes,
three several times; so that I could deliberately observe it
and make sure of my observations ; for the light, whencesoever
its origin, moved with the figure ; appearing and disappearing
coincidently with it. I saw no head or features above the
arm ; but adjoining it, dimly indicated, what seemed a small
portion of a human form.
After a time a luminous appearance, more bright than the
first, came over the table and stopped not more than four or
five inches from my face. It resembled a cylinder, illuminated
from within ; its length being about five or six inches, and
its apparent calibre about one inch. Over it was something
hanging in dark streaks. By the raps was spelled out “ Hair.”
I asked that it might touch me : whereupon it was waved
forward and touched my forehead with unmistakeable dis¬
tinctness ; the touch resembling that of human hair. After
a few minutes it disappeared.
The other sitters described these appearances as seen by
them precisely as they were seen by me.
As soon as the sitting closed I examined both doors and
found them locked. The room in which we sat, be it borne
in mind, was selected by myself.
Some years after the above, Dr. Gray, speaking of the sit¬
tings he had with Mr. Livermore, told me that, at one of these,
there was laid on the table before them a cylinder about the
same size as that I saw: but, more fortunate than I, they had
an opportunity of handling it. It seemed, Dr. Gray said, to
be of rock crystal, or some similar hard, perfectly transparent
material, and to be filled with some incandescent fluid, which
was only faintly glowing when at rest; but when the cylinder
was agitated the light shone out brightly. During the time
they saw and examined it, there was no other light in the
room except that which it emitted. By the raps it was stated
that the cylinder was the light vehicle employed by the at¬
tendant spirits to illuminate their ephemeral productions;
being itself as ephemeral as the rest.
On the same occasion Dr. Gray stated to me that he saw a
detached hand appear and disappear four or five times. At
first it was of a dark bronze colour; but each time it became
lighter in colour, until, on its final exhibition, it was as fair as
any Caucasian hand.
At another time his spectacles, which he had on at the
time, were carried off and soon after brought back. He asked
to be shown how this was done; whereupon there appeared two
imperfect fingers, almost resembling talons, attached to a
small strip of hand reaching into the darkness. These ap¬
peared to be animate, or at least obedient to some will; for,
like living tongues, they picked up and bore away the spec¬
tacles ; then, after a minute or two, replaced them.
To a question asked by Dr. Gray why the whole hand was
usually shown instead of two detached fingers, the reply, by
raps, was that most persons would be alarmed or disgusted at
sight of such an abnormal formation.
At another time a mass of what seemed flesh was laid on
Dr. Gray’s naked foot which he had exposed for the purpose.
Left there, at his request, for some time, it became intolerably
hot; and he supposes it would ultimately have burned him.
This suggests that phosphorus may have been one of the
ingredients employed: and perhaps it affords a clue to the
stories of a spectre grasping the wrist or hand of some terrified
wretch, and leaving thereon the marks of burning fingers.
Dr. Gray related to me a still more interesting observation.
On one of the last occasions that the figure of Franklin pre¬
sented itself, the face appeared, at first, imperfectly formed :
showing one eye only, for, in place of the other eye and part
of the cheek, there was a dark cavity which looked hideous
enough. Kate Fox caught sight of it, and screamed out in
mortal terror, causing the temporary extinguishment of the
light under which the figure appeared.
“Silly child,” exclaimed the Doctor, seizing her hands;
“ don’t you see you are interrupting one of the most interest¬
ing experiments in the world—the gradual formation of an
apparition ? ”
This philosophical view of the case quieted, by degrees,
Kate’s excited nerves, and dispelled her superstitious terrors,
so that when, after less than five minutes’ interval, the face
of the sage again appeared, every feature perfect and the ex¬
pression of that bright, calm benignity, she herself was the
first to exclaim, “ How beautiful! ”
This was during one of the last sittings at which Dr. Gray
assisted. On several of the earliest occasions, as the Doctor
informed me, the face, though distinctly marked, seemed
sometimes shrivelled and as if made of dough, at other times
it resembled the face of a corpse.
Aetotheu Fasting Gtel.—A New Zealand correspondent
has favoured us with the Otago Daily Times, of 'September
29th, 1871, which contains the following paragraph printed in
large type under its leading article:—“ We have received from
Messrs. Burton Bros., Princes-street, some photographs taken
by them of Miss Wilhelmina Boss, theMaungatua Fasting Girl,
whose case has on several occasions been mentioned in our
columns. The Messrs. Burton had great difficulty, owing to
Miss Boss being unable to rise, in taking a photograph of her,
and it therefore is not a little to their credit that they have
succeeded in producing a very excellent likeness. It may not
be uninteresting to recapitulate here a few particulars regard¬
ing this extraordinary case. Miss Boss is the fourth daughter
of Mr. Neil Boss, Maungatua, and is 22 years of age. She took
to her bed on 1st January, 1870, and since then has taken no
nourishment except a little tea or coffee, and three or four
small biscuits a week on an average. She fell into a trance on
the 24th May, 1870, and it lasted until the 2nd August of the
same year, being, a duration of seventy days. During the
whole of that time she took no nourishment, except that about
eight o’clock each evening a slight turn to one side would be
noticed, and the muscles, which had previously been perfectly
rigid, would become relaxed, when a little tea, water, or beef
tea poured into the mouth would be generally swallowed.
Since the date last mentioned she has not been in a trance,
and talks rationally and cheerfully, but her left arm is
paralysed. As to her appearance and expression, we cannot
do better than refer our readers to the photographs taken by
Messrs. Burton Brothers.”
THE EFFICACY OF PRAYER.
BY CKOMWELL P. VAELEY, E.E.S., C.E., M.E.I.
I have refrained till now from alluding to an inte¬
resting experiment which has been tried upon a very
large scale by Great Britain and her dependencies, for
while the life of His Royal Highness, the Prince of
Wales, was trembling in the balance, it would have
been bad taste to have alluded to the subject. The
experiment in question was one eminently calculated to
test the efficacy of prayer, so Spiritualists and all other
inquirers into the laws of being should not miss such
rare opportunities of arriving at truth. The whole
nation was called upon, and very generally responded to
the request of the Right Reverend Father in God the
Archbishop of Canterbury, to pray for the recovery of
the sufferer. Jews and Gentiles, Roman Catholics,
Protestants, and in fact everybody in the land from the
lion to the lamb, one and all responded; yet what was
the result of the reiterated prayers of the whole nation ?
A painful and tardy recovery which no one can dis¬
tinctly say was influenced or not by the efforts of a
whole nation, her colonies and dependencies, to alter
the plans of an unchangeable Deity, notwithstanding
the assistance gratuitously offered by France, Germany,
and others.
If there be any efficacy in prayer, surely here was an
instance which ought to have given a striking illustra¬
tion of its value, for if thirty millions of people, to say
nothing of colonists and foreigners, produce so slight,
if any, effect, what can be expected from the prayers of
one single individual, or of a small congregation ?
Verily, the mountain was in labour, and brought forth
a mouse, or something less.
I would further wish to draw attention to the fact
that the Right Reverend Father in God, who under the
Queen is the head of the Established Church, asked the
prayers of Great Britain for His Royal Highness, but
said nothing about the poor boy Blegg, yet as the head
of our Church he is bound to teach that before God all
men are equal.
Again, if the recovery of His Royal Highness is to be
attributed to the effect of the prayers of the nation, are
we to attribute the death of Blegg to this omission of
Christian duty on the part of the head of our Church ?
Surely no thinking individual can for a moment suppose
that an omnipotent, omniscient, omnipresent Deity,
who “ is the same to-day, yesterday, and for ever,” can
possibly show such pettiness of character. Is it not
also one of the dogmas of the Church that “ God is no
respecter of persons ?”
I trust that this valuable experiment will not be for¬
gotten, and that its teachings will not be lost upon a
nation which is rapidly awaking out of the darkness of
bigotry and superstition into the daylight of pure
reason. C. F. Vaeley.
Remaekabie Deeam Stoey. — A very remarkable
“ dream story ” is thus narrated by the Ovens Advertiser:—
“It will be remembered by many of our readers that Mr.
Arthur Gilmour, so well-known for many years as a prospector
and miner at Stanley, went to Scotland in the ship Superb a
few months since. On board he made the acquaintance of a
young man, who turned out to be the nephew of a former
Stanley mate of Gilmour’s, and the two became friendly.
During the voyage the young man, whose name has not
reached us, was afflicted with a sort of religious mania, which
at last made it necessary to put him in a strait waistcoat, and
eventually in irons. Two days afterwards he died. On Mr.
Gilmour’s arrival at home, the mother of deceased went to see
him. He was about to describe to her the circumstances of
her son’s death, when she stopped him, asking that he would
first hear her. description of what had occurred. She then
described the closing scene in detail, as exactly—Mr. Gilmour
says in a letter to a Beechworth friend—as he could have done
himself, and told him that she had witnessed it all in a dream.
We have not the slightest reason to doubt the bona fides of
this story, and there are many similar instances on record,
accompanied by evidence which it is difficult, if not impos¬
sible, to doubt.”—North British Daily Mail, Dec. 26th, 1871.
The Human “Double.”—Mr. W. H. Mumler, of 170,
West Springfield-street, Boston, U.S., the well known
American spirit photographer, has published a letter in the
Banner of Light, of November 18th, 1871, telling how he
photographed a trance-medium, Mr. Samuel Herod, Jun., of
North Bridgewater, Mass. The experiment throws some
light upon the perplexing subject of the double, or the oc¬
casional appearance of the spirits of persons still living in the
body. Mr. Mumler says :—“He came into my studio pre¬
cisely as he had done on previous occasions, and desired I
would make a sitting for him, which I did—there appearing
on the negative a well defined picture of an elderly lady and
gentleman, whom he declared to be his grandmother and
grandfather, who, he said, had promised to come. It then
occurred to me to take him while entranced, and see if I
could obtain a picture of the controlling power ; and, to that
end, I asked some spirit to entrance him, which was done in
a few moments. I then, took the picture, which I here en¬
close. You will see he is sitting in a chair, with his head
thrown back, and eyes closed, apparently in a deep trance.
Standing behind him, with one hand resting on his shoulder,
and looking down on him, is another picture of himself, but
in an entirely different position. I asked him if he remembered
anything. He said, ‘he remembered standing and looking
down on his own body, that was asleep.’ In conclusion, I
will say that I think this one of the most wonderful pictures
I have ever taken. I know that double pictures of a person
can be made by making two exposures of the same plate, and
changing the position of the sitter ; but, in this case, nothing
of the kind was done. In fact, any artist can see that it bears
no resemblance to pictures made in that manner. It is a
phenomenon that challenges the whole scientific world to
produce its counterfeit by any mechanical contrivance.”
THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
THE CIECULATOEY AND NEEVOUS SYSTEMS.
On Tuesday, January 16th, Dr. William Butberfurd delivered
the first of a series of ten weekly lectures at the Boyal Insti¬
tution, on “ The Circulatory and Nervous Systems.” He said
that particles are continually entering and leaving the body,
that the materials of the body itself are constantly
changing, and this change is nutrition. The act Of nutrition
is simpler in the lower animals than in the higher ones. The
amoeba is a1 little animal like a particle of jelly, whicm can
throw out processes, or elongate itself in one direction while
it contracts in another; when it meets a particle of food it
wraps itself round it, and thus gets it in its inside. In the
higher animals the blood carries the nutritive particles to all
parts of the body, and carries off the refuse. Food and drink
enter the body by, the mouth, and the proper channel for the
entrance of air is by the nose ; the lungs, liver, kidneys, and
skin are all concerned in throwing the waste particles out of
the body, and the blood is a kind of go-between between the
tissues and the outer world. There are two kinds of floating
globules or “ corpuscles” in the blood, the one coloured, and
and the other colourless. The colourless corpuscles are the
same in all animals ; they each consist of a soft jelly-like
mass called protoplasm, just the same as the amoeba, or very
nearly the same; they can move about, and throw out pro¬
cesses ; they have also an amoeboid movement, and can crawl
sometimes through the walls of the blood-vessels, when there
is local inflammation. They have a dark spot or nucleus
inside them. The coloured corpuscles are more numerous
than the colourless ones, and they differ in shape and size in
different animals; in human blood they are not nucleated,
but they are nucleated in other animals. They are coloured
by a pigment which may be extracted from them, and this
pigment forms crystals of different shapes, when taken from
different animals ; the pigment is very complex in chemical
constitution, and contains carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen,
sulphur, and iron. Oxygen reddens the blood and carbonic
acid darkens it. A theory has been propounded that oxygen
reddens the blood by further oxidising the iron in it, and
another that it reddens it by altering the shape of the cor¬
puscles. The blood of a sheep is very much like that of
a man ; the coloured corpuscles are somewhat bi-concave;
water makes them more globular, and sulphate of soda, ah
well as several other salts, makes them more bi-concave in
shape, and redder. Oxygen also makes them more bi-concave
and redder, but it likewise causes the blood pigment, con¬
taining no corpuscles, to become redder. The oxygen in the
blood is believed to be present in the state of ozone, in which
condition it is more active than in its normal state, and will
cause guaiacum resin to assume a blue colour. Tincture of
guaiacum is the most delicate chemical test known for
blood-stains.
In his second lecture, delivered on Tuesday, January 23rd,
Dr. Butherfurd said that the blood corpuscles live only a short
time, but the exact time is not known. The coloured ones
are formed from the colourless ones, and the latter are formed
in the adenoid tissue, which is found in large masses in various
parts of the body, called “blood-forming glands,” of which
the spleen is an example; the lymphatic glands which lie
chiefly in the abdomenal cavity, also help to form blood. As
the colourless corpuscle becomes coloured it loses its nucleus,
it becomes flattened, and then pigment begins to form inside
the protoplasm ; the corpuscle then loses its power of con¬
tracting, and is heavier than before. The colourless corpuscles
are chiefly transformed into the coloured ones in the spleen,
so that there is both a blood-forming and a blood-destroying
power in the spleen. The red or arterial blood contains
15 per cent, in volume of oxygen, and venous blood 5 per
cent.; arterial blood contains 30 per cent, of carbonic acid,
and venous blood 35 per cent. ; there is a small quantity of
nitrogen in both kinds of blood. Blood contains albumen,
consequently when it is heated it soon ceases to be fluid.
Every 1000 parts of blood consists of 750 parts water; 150
parts corpuscles ; 50 to 60 parts albumen ; T to 2 parts fat;
15 to 20 parts extractives; 5 to 10 parts salts ; 1 to 2 parts
fibrin ; and gases as already stated. Blood corpuscles are not
formed with great rapidity, so that if much blood is taken
from the body, it is long in forming again ; even nutritious
food is sometimes not rapid enough to counteract the effects
of great loss of blood, and then transfusion has sometimes
been resorted to, the blood being taken from a strong healthy
person. Once the blood of a sheep was tried; it succeeded
in the first experiment, but in the second the patient died.
The blood of a dog injected into the body of a rabbit causes
death ; therefore transfusion is now only effected between
animals of the same species. Blood is driven through the
body chiefly by the action of the heart, which is a great
muscle, and acts simply as a pump. Some few of the lower
animals have blood, but no heart. Insects have a long tubular
heart, which drives the blood towards the head. The human
heart contracts about once in every second ; the motion of the
auricles lasts about ^ of a second, and of the ventricles f of
a second. The heart of a cold-blooded animal, such as a frog,
lives a long time after it is cut out of the body; heat
accelerates and cold retards its action, and this general prin¬
ciple holds good with respect to nearly all vital processes.
In the two next lectures of the course, delivered on Tuesday,
January 30th, and Tuesday, February 6th, Dr. Eutherford
spoke of the structure and nature of the heart and blood-ves¬
sels. Before he fiinishes the series of lectures he will speak of
the nature of nerve-force, so far as it is known, and the ques¬
tion recently disputed in this journal, whether electricity has
anything to do with nervous action.
AECHBISHOP MANNING ON THE DEMON OE SOCEATES.
On Friday night, January 26th, the Archbishop of West¬
minster lectured to an overflowing audience, at the Boyal
Institution, on “ The Demon of Socrates.” Every inch of
sitting and standing room in the theatre was occupied, and all
Albemarle-street was filled from end to end with lines of car¬
riages, so great was the throng.
The substance of Archbishop Manning’s lecture was that
Socrates, from his youth upwards, heard a voice occasionally,
which warned him not to commit certain actions, but never
urged him to do anything. The lecturer argued that this voice was
not a demon or spirit, but, for the most part, was the voice of
the conscience of Socrates and of his own matured intellect,
speaking to him in such a manner that he supposed it to be
something outside of himself. In the course of the lecture he
told how Hermadorus the Clazomenian was said, by Plutarch,
be in the habit of leaving his body for a time to visit distant
places, and how, one day when he was thus absent, his wife
gave up his body to his enemies, who burnt it. Thus the
house was destroyed while the tenant was absent. Archbishop
Manning narrated this anecdote in a tone which implied that
he thought it to be a rubbishing story.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
IB
Feb. 15, 1872.
DR. CARPENTER AND PSYCHIC FORCE.
Mk. Alfred R. Wallace, President of the Entomo¬
logical Society, has favoured us with the following copy
of a letter sent to the Daily Telegraph, but not pub¬
lished by that journal:—
Sir,—In the report of Dr. Carpenter’s lecture at Chelsea
{given in your issue of Saturday last), there occurs a passage
so extraordinary and so entirely misleading, that I must beg
you, in the interests of truth, to allow me to make a few
remarks upon it. Dr. Carpenter is stated to have said that he
would grapple with Mr. Crookes’ “Psychic Force;” and, in
attempting to do so, exhibited an experiment intended to show
(and which his audience must have beheved really did show)
that Mr. Crookes was ignorant of the merest rudiments of
mechanics, and was deluded by an experiment, the fallacy of
which an intelligent schoolboy could have pointed out. Dr.
Carpenter, it is said, exhibited a glass of water poised against
an equal weight upon a balance, and showed, that by dipping
a finger in the water—that is, by pressing with a force exactly
equal to the weight of the water displaced by the immersed
finger—you increased the weight on that side of the balance.
Now, unless the audience were intended to believe that
Mr. Crookes was ignorant of this childishly simple fact;
and further, that it completely accounted for the result
of his experiment, for what purpose was this experiment
shown ? Yet if this, is what it was intended to prove,
then it becomes absolutely certain that Dr. Carpenter could
never have read Mr. Crookes’s account of his experiments given
in October last in the Quarterly Journal of Science (for he
would certainly not wilfully misrepresent the experiment), and
was therefore in complete ignorance of what he was attempt¬
ing to disprove. For, will it be believed, Mr. Crookes expressly
states that, “ dipping the hand to the fullest extent into the
water does not produce the least appreciable action on the
balance,” the reason of which is sufficiently clear, for his
woodcut shows, and his description tells us, that the vessel of
water was not placed on the scale of a balance at all, but on
a board exactly over its fulcrum or point of support at one end,
while the distant end was suspended from a balance. Yet this
balance showed a force of more than one pound exerted on it,
when Mr. Home merely dipped the tips of the fingers of one
hand in the water! Dr.. Carpenter is an “ eminent man of
science” and a fellow of the Eoyal Society; yet if your re¬
porter has correctly stated his mode of criticising the experi¬
ments of another F.R.S., we may be excused for not placing
implicit confidence in the “ two eminent men of science,” who
are said by Dr. Carpenter to have reported Mr. Crookes’s facts
“ good for nothing.” . Alfred R. Wallace.!’
DR. CARPENTER CALLED TO ACCOUNT.
Mr. B. Coleman has sent us the following correspondence
for publication. Mr. Coleman speaks strongly and warmly.
It is natural that he who has worked so faithfully, and fought
such hard battles on behalf of Spiritualism in the days of its
greatest unpopularity, should be annoyed that Dr. Carpenter,
at this , late hour, cannot bring any rational objections or
practical knowledge to bear on a subject, about which he talks
so much to the uninformed.
Upper Norwood, Jan. 22, 1872.
W. B. Carpenter, Esq., M.D., F.R.S,
Sir,—I venture to intrude upon you for the purpose of say¬
ing what you did not give me the opportunity of saying in
your presence at Chelsea, on Friday evening last, where I and
others had gone to hear a lecture from you, announced as “ A
Scientific inquiry into the Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
After listening for two hours and ten minutes to a discourse
on mesmerism and clairvoyance, with old anecdotes, inter¬
spersed with a number of scientific axioms which no one dis¬
putes, I felt greatly disappointed to find that you hardly
touched upon the phenomena of Spiritualism, unless the re¬
marks you made at the close of your discourse on “ table
turning,” and on Mr. Crookes’s experiments, in what he calls
, “ psychic force,” can be so considered.
I had read the very extraordinary article attributed to your
pen in the Quarterly Review of October last, and also your
acknowledged published lecture upon “ Epidemic Delusions,”
and I had come to Chelsea prepared to answer some of the
fallacies to which you have given such free currency. Know¬
ing this, as I have reason to believe, you studiously avoided a
repetition of them, and I should not, therefore, have found
occasion to say then what I desire to say now, viz.—that the
article in the Quarterly contains a tissue of false reasoning,
false inferences, and assertions, written in a tone of assumed
superiority of judgment over all other men, that stamps
the writer of it as an egotist,
* * * * * * *
You, sir, were reminded during your address on Friday
evening, that the experiment you showed to prove Mr. Crookes’s
unscientific conduct, was not fairly stated. You took no
notice of this, but accepted the applause which followed your
illustration. I have since made enquiries upon that point, and
incredible as it may seem, you are accused of having made a
deliberate misstatement to the prejudice of Mr. Crookes.
Let me remind you that on the “ common ground ” of truth-
seekers, all men of character may stand. You cannot play
the part of a “freelance” in science, nor fling stones and
run away to avoid consequences, with impunity. You must
justify yourself or fall.—I am, sir, your obedient servant,
  B. Coleman.
University of London, Burlington-gardens. W.
January 23, 1872.
Sir,—As the letter which you have thought proper to address
to me leaves me to suppose that you intend to make a public
attack upon my character for honesty, I think it worth while
to inform you—
1. That I accepted the invitation of the Chelsea Society on
the express condition that there should be no diseussion.
2. That Mr. Gannell having written to me stating your wish
to be allowed to speak at the close of my lecture, I told him,
in writing, that I must adhere to my conditions.
3. That your appearance on the platform, therefore, was a
breach of the understanding previously arnved at, while my
departure was in aeeordance with it, as you can ascertain, if
you choose, from Mr. Gannell.
4-. That so far from having been “labouring” to prejudice
Mr. Crookes, at the Royal Society, I did not even know of his
having sent in a second paper, until after it had been rejected
by the Cowicil. This rejection took place on Thursday after¬
noon, and I heard of it, and the grounds of it, from Professor
'Stokes and Sir Charles Wheatstone at the evening meeting.
What I stated as to Mr. Crookes’s experiment with the balance
was on their authority, as I shall [be prepared to prove, if the
correctness of that statement is impugned.—I am, sir, your
obedient servant, W. B. Carpenter.
B. Coleman, Esq.
Upper Norwood, Jan. 24, 1872.
Dr. W. B. Carpenter, F.R.S.
Sir,—I am in receipt of your letter of the 23rd inst., and I
beg to say if, in any remarks of mine, I have done you injus¬
tice, I am ready at once to withdraw them, and to apologise.
But let us see how the case stands. You are the writer of the
article in the Quarterly upon “Spiritualism and its recent
converts.” Had you confined yourself to a repetition of long
exploded theories, you might have enjoyed unchallenged any
advantages you could derive in pocket, or in reputation, by
such a great trespass upon the credulity of the unitiated.
But when, to maintain your fallacies and one-sided state¬
ments, you step out of your way to depreciate tbe characters
of your co-workers in science who, in special inquiries, have
left you far behind, you must expect to be called to sharp
account for conduct so unworthy of one holding your position
in the scientific world, with the ready ear of the public at your
command.
When,, too, you go further, and tell men like myself that we
are not qualified to judge of plain matters of fact made patent
to our senses, because, forsooth, we are deficient in scientific j
training! you insult our practical common sense, and earn
our contempt for your scientific nonsense.
With regard to the meeting at Chelsea, whatever conditions
you may have made to avoid a discussion, I was expressly
invited to be there, and “no breach of the understanding”
was made, as I did not appear on the platform until you had
concluded, and then only with the consent of the audience, to
whom the question was put from the chair.
It appears to me an act of cowardice to go about the country
repeating the same fallacies, and closing every avenue to an
opponent. Depend upon it, sir, you have done too much or
too little in this controversy, and that you cannot allow such
grievances as you have caused to remain without justifying
your conduct, or palliating them.—I am, sir, your obedient
servant,     B. Coleman..
DR. EDMUNDS AND THE DIALECTICAL REPORT.
We have received from Mr. R. Hannah, of Craven House,
Queen’s Elm, Brompton, S. W., copies of some very lively and in¬
teresting letters winch have passed between himself and Dr.
James Edmunds, of Fitzroy-square, but we publish only the bare
facts of the case, because we cannot spare space for the cor¬
respondence which must inevitably flow from the printing of
some personalities, which in the letters before us are unusually
smart. In letter No. 1, Mr. Hannah quotes the following
extract from the letter of Dr. Edmunds in the Spiritualist, of
January 15th :—“ It ought to be known that one of the most
reliable and careful members of the committee seceded”
(from No. 3 sub-committee) “in consequence of having to
make a charge of cheating against one of the persons present
at its first meeting.” Mr. Hannah said that he held a sort of
official position on the sub-committee, that he was ignorant of
the circumstance mentioned, so asked Dr. Edmunds for the
name of the “ careful member.” In letter No. 2, Dr. Edmunds
gives the name of the member ; we will call him “ Mr. Dash.”
In letter No. 3, Mr. Hannah says that Mr. Dash never was a
member of the sub-committee, and never attended one of its
meetings, therefore must be the wrong man. He wished to
know the right one. In letter No. 4, Dr. Edmunds says the
circumstance occurred in Mr. “Blank’s” committee, which
he mistook for committee No. 3, because the numbers of the
committees had been altered in the official report. Letters
Nos. 5 and 6 contain some amusing personal remarks. In
letter No. 7, Mr. Hannah gives the following extract from a
letter from Mr. Dash, the “ reliable and careful member : ”—
“ What Dr. Edmunds refers to I cannot say, unless to the
unfortunate misunderstanding which arose out of the incorrect
report of some observations of mine made on my way home
after the first and only meeting I attended at Mr. Blank’s.
I made no accusation of intentional deception. I have great
respect for that gentleman, and I am pleased to think his
feeling was altered by my explanations.” Thus “ the reliable
and careful member” denies the statement made by Dr.
Edmunds. Mr. Hannah asks for the publication of these
particulars, in justice to the five or six gentlemen present at
the aforesaid meeting of the sub-committee, respecting which
the charge of cheating had been made. No. 7 is the last
letter enclosed to us, and is dated February 5th, 1872. Can¬
not all the little differences which have arisen, more especially
from the too aggressive article by Dr. Edmunds, in the report,
be forgotten, and all the members of the Dialectical Society
take up the further investigation of Spiritualism at the point
where they left off ?
Since the foregoing was in type we have received a letter
from Dr. Edmunds. In the first part of the letter he simply
repeats the facts, so we have but to quote the last part of his
letter giving the explanation. He says—
“ I have inquired of the member who thus seceded, or rather
caused the break up of the whole sub-committee, and he wishes
not to impute intentional cheating. He is, however, clearly
convinced that one or both of two persons who were then present
produced motions of the table by muscular action, which was
to him beyond question. The chief of that sub-committee
wrote most angry letters to the hon. sec. at the time, charging
the member in question with having made ‘ a most insulting
charge of trickery against .’ The matter came before me
privately at the time as chairman of the committee, but the
breach was irreparable, and the sub-committee broke up. The
documents are still in existence, but unless issue be taken as to
my bona Jides in mentioning the matter, there can be no neces¬
sity for further reference to them.”
Mrs. Edmunds and Mrs. Guppy flatly contradict each other
about an invitation. As the subject is merely a personal one,
and of no public interest, we sought to get rid of the discussion,
but Dr. Edmunds claims that as Mrs. Edmunds has been
attacked she has a right to reply, though Dr. Edmunds has
already spoken for her, and had the last word with Mr. Guppy.
However, we print it, that there may be no charge of want of
a fair hearing, and it is no use anybody sending us anything
more about these personal matters; they waste space, and are
not of public interest. Here is the letter:—
To the Editor of The Spiritualist.
Sir,—I must ask your permission to state that the story
about myself which is published in The Spiritualist at
page 202, and repeated at page 221, is a fabrication from
beginning to end, and that it is as unpardonable in the cha¬
racter of its representations as it is in regard to the falsity
of its facts.
Several years since I was in the company of my friend Mrs.
Cooper of Sydenham-hill, when she made a brief and casual
call at 45, Great Marlborough-street, in order to see Mrs.
Guppy, then Miss Nicholl. Mrs. Guppy then made some ex¬
traordinary statements, and said she would come some even¬
ing to a seance; in consequence of this I afterwards called
on Mrs. Guppy and asked her to give a siance to some friends
at my house, and she kindly did so. The date of that sba/nee
was November 27th, 1867. There were present the Editor of
the Westminster Review, a gentleman connected with one
of the New York journals who was then in London, the
governess of my children, and other friends. Dr. Edmunds
was not present, as he was unexpectedly called to Colchester,
and did not get back till early next morning. Mrs. Guppy
afterwards favoured me with a call; she also invited me to be
present at a stance at Great Marlborough-street, this I at¬
tended ; it sdate was March 4th, 1868. Dr. Edmunds did not
accompany me. I had no further communication with Mrs.
Guppy until I went to Great Marlborough-street, with Dr.
Edmunds, on May 28th, 1868. I believe that Dr. Edmunds
had never before that evening seen either Mr. or Mrs. Guppy,
nor had any communication with them. The account of that
sia/nce, as given at pages 64 to 67 of the Report, is in my
opinion a fair one ; I distinctly remember the pencil drawing
of an angel being discovered on the paper.
As this is my first, and will be my last communication, I
beg of you to excuse me for repeating that the whole story is
a fabrication.—I am, Sir, yours truly,
Louisa Edmunds.
4, Fitzroy-square, January 1872.
P. S.—I find from my diary that the first stance at our
house with Mrs. Marshall, which is described at pages 60 and 61
of the report took place on Saturday July 13th, 1867, which
was some months before instead of after the Davenport
seance.
Messrs. Herne and Williams’s Mediumship.—Several
ladies and other friends, who think it right that Messrs.
Heme and Williams: should be well supported in [carrying on
their arduous work as public mediums, have kindly resolved to
assist in getting up a social meeting of Spiritualists for their
benefit, on Saturday, February 24th, at their rooms, 61,
Lamb’s Conduit-street; admission three shillings and sixpence
each. Visitors will be received at five p.m.; tea on the table
at six; a little amateur singing and music at seven o’clock,
followed by light refreshments, after which there will be a
seance. Those who intend to be present are requested to send
word to that effect to Messrs. Heme and Williams a few days
in advance, that the necessary accommodation may be pro¬
vided. There are two stances, with a tea between, every
Saturday evening—charge half-a-crown—doors open at a
quarter past six; and no admittance after a quarter to seven
o’clock to the first seance. All these Saturday evening social
gatherings are for Spiritualists only, to secure harmony and
good seances free from interruption.
The Philosophy of Prayer.—Mr. Varley has some¬
thing to say in another column on the efficacy of praying for
a miracle, or change in the laws of health which govern the
life of man. Changing the subject from the efficacy of prayer
upon a person at a distance, there is no doubt that Spiritualism
proves that prayer has a powerful influence upon the suppli¬
cant himself, when the prayer is sincere. The mental and
spiritual condition of a medium allows spirits of a corresponding
order of mind to get near him, and we have known occasional
instances where mediums, when in a bad or passionate state
of mind, have been much plagued by malicious spirits of a low
order, from whose acts the higher spirits were unable then to
get near enough to protect them. Prayer will usually get rid
of these influences at once, because by its means the medium
raises his own spiritual state, causing the power over him of
bad spirits to decline, and of good ones to increase. All this
is in obedience to spiritual laws, and we hope to have room to
publish plenty of facts before long, to prove what is here
asserted. We have never seen a case in Spiritualism, where
prayer has done any good to another person at a distance
from the supplicant, unless the two persons had been placed
en rapport by means of some of the methods known to ex¬
perienced Spiritualists. A pure and good life tends largely to
protect a man from physical disease; and there are spiritual
as well as physiological reasons for this.
The Anthropological Institute.—On Monday, Feb.
5th, at a meeting of the Anthropological Institute, at 4, St.
Martin’s-place, Trafalgar-square, Dr. R. S. Charnock, F.S.A.,
presided. Mr. G. Harris (Vice-president) read a paper on
“ The Transmission of Hereditary Qualities,” in which he
admitted that very'little was known on the subject; he sug¬
gested that there might be waves of influence in families,
whereby certain mental and bodily powers reached a maximum
in the family, and then fell agam. Dr. R. King said that there
is no doubt that some of the characteristics or features of
remote ancestors will suddenly reappear in children, several
generations being slipped over. When a black marries into
a white family, the black colour may sleep for several genera¬
tions, but it is then sure to show itself more or less; it is
scarcely ever eradicated. Dr. Collyer said that two-and-a-half
years ago he was engaged in the principal lunatic asylum in
the United States, at Worcester, Massachusetts, and it was
there found that insanity was propagated, though not always
in the same phase, and a generation might pass without its
showing itself; it invariably appears in the third or fourth
generation, and more particularly is this the case with regard
to idiotcy. A man named Hawkins was an idiot; two chil¬
dren in his family of twelve had the disease, but in the next
generation nearly all the children were idiots. Mr. J. W.
Jackson said that families build up races, so that the study of
families, and their mental, physical, and moral changes,
would tend to give information on changes in races. Mr.
George St. Clair said that his physical characteristics, were
derived from his mother. Captain Burton (the African tra¬
veller) said that a census was required, including many thou¬
sands of cases, before much could be known about the trans¬
mission of hereditary qualities. Mr. Charlesworth pointed
out how intellect. was. hereditary in some families. One
instance was shown in the case of the Taylors of Norwich,
where the children came to London, and all of them dis¬
tinguished themselves. The Cobbolds of Ipswich had thirteen
children of marvellous intellectual acquirements. He also
cited the instance of the Napiers. Mr. Hughes said that there
was no “ tidal wave ” of faculties in races; the strongest held
their own and came to the front, and he thought that it was
the same with famOies. The President said that Gall had stated
that when the physical constitution is transmitted from the
parent to the child, then the intellectual faculties go with it,
but he thought that Gall was wrong. Mr. Harris called atten¬
tion to a book on Hereditary Genius, by Mr. F. Galton, F.R.S.
A paper by Dr. Carter Blake and Dr. Charnock on “The
Wallens ” was then read, and the proceedings closed.
14
THE SPIRITUALIST
Feb. 15, 1872.
Paetrg.
SANDALPHON.
Have you read in the Talmud of old.
In the Legends the Rabbins have told
Of the limitless realms of the air,—
Have you read it,—the marvellous story
Of Sandalphon, the Angel of Glory,
Sandalphon the Angel of Prayer ?
How, erect, at the outermost gates
Of the City Celestial he waits,
"With his feet on the ladder of light,
That, crowded with angles unnumbered.
By Jacob was seen, as he slumbered
Alone in the desert at night?
The Angels of Wind and of Fire
Chant only one Hymn, and expire
With the song's irresistible stress;
Expire in their rapture and wonder,
As harp-strings are broken asunder
By music they throb to express.
But serene in the rapturous throng,
Unmoved by the gush of the song,
With eyes unimpassioned and slow,
Among the dead angels, the deathless
Sandalphon stands listening breathless
To sounds that ascend from below;—
From the spirits on earth that adore,
From the souls that entreat and implore
In the fervour and passion of prayer;
From the hearts that are broken with losses
And weary with dragging the crosses
Too heavy for mortals to bear.
And he gathers the prayers as he stands,
And they change into flowers in his hands.
Into garlands of purple and red,
And beneath the great arch of the portal,
Through the streets of the City Immortal,
Is wafted the fragrance they shed.
It is but a legend, I know,—
A fable, a phantom, a show,
Of the ancient Rabbinical lore;
Yet the old mediaeval tradition,
The beautiful, strange superstition,
But haunts me and holds me the more.
When I look from my window at night,
And the welkin above is all white,
All throbbing and panting with stars,
Among them majestic is standing
Sandalphon the angel, expanding
His pinions in nebulous bars.
And the legend, I feel, is a part
Of the hunger and thirst of the heart,
The frenzy and fire of the brain,
That grasps at the fruitage forbidden,
The golden pomegranates of Eden,
To quiet its fever and pain. LONGFELLOW.
aromspontiettce.
[Great freedom is given to , correspondents; who sometimes express opinions
diametricaUy opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE DAYEHPORT BROTHERS.*
Sir,—Having received a letter from one of my sons now in
Canada, and a portion of it referring to phenomena lately
witnessed by him, I thought that possibly the “ cerebral,” as
well as the” psychic force ” non-spiritualists would he pleased
at reading so interesting a narrative—a narrative that will for
some time fully occupy their time in trying to dove-tail it with
their one-sided examinations, experiments, and declarations,
1 Enmore-park, Norwood Junction. John Jones.
” On entering the room I immediately recognised the
cabinet, the stout form of Fay, and the slim proportions of
the brothers. They went through the usual tyings and un-
tyings; hut one little incident connected therewith caused
great laughter. While one of the committee (a stout man),
after shutting the two side doors of the cabinet, was closing
the middle door, and was giving a last look at the brothers, a
hand, visible to everybody in the room, was seen to reach out
of the cabinet, and rub itself on the bald head of our adven¬
turous committee-man, causing that functionary to call out
and beat a hasty retreat. In the dark seances the things
tumbled about much as they did at Hanover-square Rooms;
the arms, body, and legs of Fay were tied, and the knots
sealed, and yet his coat went off in the twinkling of an eye,
and was put on again; the seals were unbroken; and not only
was Fay’s coat put on, but a gentleman in the audience had
his coat likewise whisked off and transferred to Fay’s back.
With one more incident I will close this account of the
Davenports; it is an incident perfectly true; but I would not
have believed it unless I had seen it. I hardly know whether
you will believe it, though I vouch for its accuracy. A gentle¬
man in the audience, who had never seen the brothers before,
and believed them to be humbugs, was determined, during the
dark seances, to find them out. For that purpose he went to
the edge of the platform (where he had no right to be), when
the trumpet came smash upon the back of his head breaking
his shirt collar. This rather startled him; on going back to
his seat, he complained in a whisper to a person (his friend)
who sat next to him saying, ” Well, if the spirits have broken
my collar, they might be kind enough to give me another.”
Immediately Ms broken collar ^was taken off by some unseen,
though felt agency, and a new collar fastened on Ms neck and
a box of collars put into Ms hands. Is not that wonderful ? I
would not have believed it if I had not personally seen it, and
conversed with the gentleman—who is a lawyer of Toronto, a
man much respected, and incapable of telling a lie, or of
fancying this, that, or the other. You can, father, make what
use of this you like, as I vouch for its truth, and, if you
like, I will give you the lawyer’s name and address. You have
no idea of the number of instances I have about spirits.
Spiritualism is making me think. I hear many instances of
spirit’s warning, of wonderful dreams, &c. Would you like
me to collect a few for you ? ” Arthur Jones.”
“ Toronto, Dec. 1871.
MATTER AHD SPIRIT.
Sir,—After all that I have said in the Spiritual Magazine
and elsewhere, to the effect that we have no reason for be¬
lieving that there is any essential difference between matter
and spirit, and in which view so many Spiritualists concur,
I am disappointed to find in the Spiritualist of this month
such a misconception of a ” true materialist ” and of the
“ philosophy of materialism.” N w, Professor Tyndall is a
“true materialist,” and see what he says: ‘‘If these state¬
ments startle, it is because matter has been defined and
maligned by philosophers and theologians who were equally
unaware that it is, at bottom, essentially mystical and
transcendental.”
* The Davenport Brothers are regarded by Spiritualists as genuine
media, who were “ written down,” while they were In Englrnd, by the un-
truthinlness ot the newspapers.
Now, what can there be in this true conception of matter to
warrant a true materialist from a priori disbelieving in the
existence of spirits? Matter fundamentally must be quite as
spiritual or transcendental as anything you can conceive in
regard to the nature of spirit, and Dr. Carpenter, who believes
in a “ soul,” is unreasonable in saying that a belief in
spirits doing this and that “is repugnant to common sense;”
facts are not a priori to be decided upon by our prejudices,
but on the evidence of the senses and by fair inference from
the phenomena observed. Almost every discovery in philosophy
has at first been considered “ repugnant to common sense,”
and if the belief in spirits and their doings on earth is
repugnant to common sense, the Bible most certainly must be
repugnant to common sense, since the existence of spirits is
therein affirmed throughout. Nor do we want any new force
to account for the phenomena of Spiritualism; it is a rule in
philosophy not to introduce more entities than are required
for any given phenomena; besides, force is not an entity, but
a mode of action—light, for instance, is a mode of action
through an ethereal or spiritual elastic medium, resulting in
the sense of light in the mind or nature of man and other
animals.
Thought-reading again is not the conscious thought passing
through space, but like light, a physical action in a medium
reproducing the conscious idea in another mind. One in¬
stance out of a hundred I might give from my own experience:
A young lady staying with my mother and sisters twenty
miles from London, whom I used to mesmerise, became a most
remarkable clairvoyant. Now, on one Sunday morning after
church, I was walking round the garden of a lady residing in
St. John’s-wood, London, and I found a dead baby that had
been thrown over the wall. I by the post on Monday morning
received a letter from my sister, stating that the young lady
in question, on returning from church, had rushed wildly about
the garden declaring that she was certain that she should find
a dead baby. I do not suppose that any one believing
my statement, will attribute so remarkable a circumstance to
mere coincidence. Then how are we to interpret the fact ?
Surely not by any new force, but simply that the physical
control concomitant of the mental state, had caused a corre¬
sponding action as in the case of light, through an elastic
ethereal medium, which in the lady en rapport with me had
set up a similar mental state resulting as described.
Such facts as these may be termed psychological, though
clearly having a physical basis, as every psychological fact
must have, since there cannot be action without something to
stimulate action and something to act, and spirit must be
something, and a spirit some sort of body with special func¬
tions. But the term spirit no more explains the functions
than the term matter; the mystery is equally profound under
either conception, for why should reason transcend human
penetration, and even referring all to the immediate interven¬
tion of that Superior Being explains nothing, but only plunges
you into a far deeper mystery. Whatever part the spirit may
play in regard to the wide class of phenomena included under
the term Spiritualism, it is clear that very much is simply the
result of the peculiar condition of the medium. For instance,
one evening after a long sitting, one medium, a lady, fell into
a faint or trance, seemingly quite insensible, and her hand
dropped as if dead, if you raised it from her lap. All present
but myself went to the other end of the room to take tea. I
lifted up the lady’s hand and placed it gently on the table,—a
heavy dining table,—and it instantly slid away half-a-foot. The
medium’s legs were not under the table, and muscular effort,
conscious or unconscious, was out of the question; then what
must we infer but a power not of the muscles, but which, in
the ordinary condition, stimulates or acts through the agency
of the muscles, and which, under particular states of the
system, can pass away and influence bodies without the usual
muscular intervention, just as in clairvoyance the person sees
or knows without the intervention of the eye ? So that we
come to this remarkable result: That under certain circum¬
stances a person may perceive more clearly without using his
eyes, and act more powerfully without first putting the muscles
in action, and we come to perceive that all the power or
necessity of life is within, and that the muscles and the senses
are merely, or little more than, instrumental, and, as such,
essential under the ordinary conditions. Whether this is an
argument in favour of the existence of an independent soul or
spirit is a question I will ask permission to discuss another
time, as I fear I have already occupied too much space.
Boulogne. Henri G. Atkinson.
FLOWERS BROUGHT AT A SEAUCE.
Sir,—The following are some particulars of a seance held at
the rooms of Miss Kate Fox, Friday, January 19th.
Seance held at eleven o’clock in the morning. Present—
Miss Kate Fox, Miss Ogden, Mrs. Guppy, Mr. Charles Black-
bum, Manchester. All hands were placed on the table in
broad daylight. The spirit desired Mr. Blackburn to put one
hand under the table. He did so, and a flower (a large double
tulip) was put in his hand. He produced it and laid it on the
table, and then put his hand under the table, and another
flower was put in it. This was repeated nine times, each time
a flower being laid on the table and all hands in sight on the
table, except the one hand he put under. Other manifestations
took place, not important enough to record.
January 21st, 1872. . Samuel Guppy.
Mr, J. J. Morse’s Mediumship.—Every Friday evening
a public seance is given at 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, by
Mr. J. J. Morse, trance-medium, as will be seen on reference to
our advertisement columns. While in the abnormal trance
state, spirits give messages through his organism, by infusing
thoughts into his brain, which he puts into his own words.
The spirits hear questions put to him by reading them off as
they enter his brain. Sometimes “ deceased ” persons come
and narrate some of the incidents of their lives, and the fruit
which they reaped when they entered the next world, as the
result of deeds done in the body. These spirits sometimes
give their names and addresses, which, in the majority of cases,
have been found on inquiry to be correct, as well as the inci¬
dents related. In the early numbers of The Spiritualist will
be found some of these narratives in full, taken down in short¬
hand when they were spoken. Mr. Morse has no knowledge of
what he has been saying when he wakes out of the trance. As
is the case with all mediums, his seances vary in quality; some¬
times his trance utterances are vague and unreliable; usually
they are bright and sharp, and very considerably higher in in¬
telligence than he is capable of speaking when in his normal
state. The spirits, while communicating, cannot see any of
the persons present, in consequence, they state, “ of the clair¬
voyant faculties of the medium being undeveloped.” His eyes
are closed while he is in the trance.
SPIRITUALISM IN CHELSEA.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE CHELSEA LITERARY AND SCIENTIFIC
ASSOCIATION—PROFESSOR HUXLEY’S FATHER-IN-LAW AT A
SEANCE.
On Friday night, January 12th, a meeting of the Chelsea
Literary and Scientific Institution, was held at the Yestry-
hall, Chelsea. Mr. J. Boyd presided, and there was a good
attendance of members and their friends, forming a large and
intelligent auditory. We recognised only three or four Spiri¬
tualists amongst the listeners.
Mr. J. W. Jackson, M. A.I., gave a short address to the
society on the subject of Modern Spiritualism. He said that
of late he had seen a great deal of the phenomena of Spiri¬
tualism, and felt that the time had come when he ought to
speak out and to speak fearlessly, whatever the opinions of
his listeners or of the general public might be. (Applause).
He was glad that the society intended to give attention to
Spiritualism; it was decidedly one of the great questions of
the age, and in less than a quarter of a century had spread
to all parts of the world, gaining converts to such an extent
that they could now be numbered only by millions. Yet
Spiritualism was no new thing in the world’s history ; the
East had always been full of it; in the most ancient Egyp¬
tian, Hebrew, and Sanscrit records, there is abundant
evidence that many of the facts of Spiritualism were known,
and had been known to the remotest antiquity. Hue’s
travels in China revealed that certain spiritual phenomena
were known there. In short, Spiritualism was but the new
outburst of an old force. Since the days of Bacon and the
beginning of the inductive philosophy, too much attention
had been given to physics to the exclusion of other branches
of science, and this brought a very materialistic spirit into
Western Europe, which culminated in the French Revolution.
Spiritual ideas build up, but materialistic ideas pull down.
Swedenborg was undoubtedly the first great Spiritualist of
modem times, and many of the phenomena of Spiritualism
were connected with mesmerism ; although the traths taught
by Swedenborg, Mesmer, and others did not gain a very
broad footing, they to some extent prepared the public mind
for the advent of Spiritualism which is now establishing
those truths with such great power; it is ever the case that
if men deny a truth to-day it will rise again tomorrow their
irresistible foe. He might state that during the greater part
of his life he had deeply studied mesmerism and phrenology,
and learnt beyond all doubt that the scientific world had not
yet developed to such an extent as to pay the loyalty to
facts demanded by the Baconian philosophy, when those
facts opposed their early teachings, their feelings, and their
prejudices. In appearing before them that evening he was
pleased to see Mr. Benjamin Coleman among the listeners,
for no man had done more than Mr. Coleman in braving
public opinion years ago, by telling the truth about Spiri¬
tualism, at a time when to speak out so fearlessly demanded
very great moral courage. (Applause). Mr. Jackson then
described minutely many stances at which he had been
present, where heavy solid objects were moved about without
being touched, where spirit voices and direct spirit writing
had been obtained, and so on. He concluded by saying that
Spiritualists had decidedly less fear of death than other
people ; most of them had no fear of death at all, and some
were anxious for it. He was sorry that those scientific men
who opposed Spiritualism had not investigated it; if any of
them wished to investigate they should not hold the idea of
attending stances as the great “ Doctor this, ” or “ Professor
that,” but come as any other private gentlemen. (Applause).
Mr. Haslam said that experience and experiment only
could decide the questions raised by Spiritualists; he ad¬
mitted fully and entirely the reality of the phenomena, but
the physical phenomena were so inexplicable that the society
was justified in with-holding any opinion at present as to
their cause. This, he thought, would be a fair and honoura¬
ble position for the society to take. He had not had the
honour of witnessing any of the Spiritual miracles, but if he
were carried round that hall by unseen agency, he should
not therefore believe in Spiritualism—he should only say that
something had occurred which he could not explain. (Ap¬
plause). He had seen hat turning and table tilting, but
thought they were due to unconscious muscular action.
He thought that Spiritualism could not be true because it
ignores natural law*—so that if adopted, it would interfere
with the flow of science; it was untrue because it had no
basis; he would therefore say “ cut it down, why cumbereth
it the ground ?”
Mr. Coleman said that he attended the meeting by invita¬
tion of the secretary and some members of the council to
state some of the facts of Spiritualism which he had wit¬
nessed, and he would tell them the truth fearlessly whether
they believed him or not. (Applause). He then described
some remarkable manifestations he had witnessed in the
presence of Mr. Home and other mediums, after which he
said that though nobody respected Faraday more than him¬
self, it was a fatal mistake in Faraday’s fife that he refused to
investigate Spiritualism. Dr. Carpenter was going to lecture
to them on Spiritualism on the following Friday, and he
would probably attack many extraordinary spiritual facts of
recent date, which were true nevertheless. Dr. Carpenter
might tell them that solid objects could not pass through other
solid material objects, yet he (Mr. Coleman) had been
present a hundred times at least when such phenomena
had occurred. None of these things were miracles. Spirit¬
ualists did not hold them up as miracles; they do not occur
in violation of the laws of nature, but they are in accordance
with some laws not yet understood, which laws he asked the
scientific world to explain to him, since it was their province
to unravel the laws, if they did their proper work, and per¬
formed their duties faithfully. It was no use asserting that
the things did not occur. At the last general election, when
Messrs. Buxton and Locke were standing for East Surrey, he
(Mr. Coleman) was asked to preside over one of their meetings
at Upper Norwood. Next day he met iu the Crystal Palace
reading room one of the gentlemen who had sat by him at the
meeting, and in the course of conversation, after compliment¬
ing him, he chanced to remark that he was Professor Huxley’s
father-in-law, and then (said Mr. Coleman) the following
colloquy took place :—I said to him, “ Do you know anything
of Spiritualism?” as his statement that he was Professor
Huxley’s father-in-law, and that he was a materialist, made
me take a sudden interest in him. “ No,” he said, ” none
but a fool would. (Laughter.) I suppose you mean the
table-rapping and table-moving business?” I said, “You
* Spiritualists claim that all spiritual phenomena are produced under
natural law, and are not miracles in the theological sense of the word, but
that most of the laws which govern them have not yet been discovered by
scientific research.—Ed.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
15
Eeb. 15, 1872.
Shave just complimented me on the way in which I did my
worldly work last night; allow me to tell yon that Spiritualism
is true, and that I know it.” “ Well,” replied he, “ I should
never have thought a man like you could have believed in
such an absurdity!” After some further conversation he
accompanied me home, and finally remarked, “ What you tell
me is absurd—really ridiculous. How can the law of gravita¬
tion be destroyed?” He came again and again, and at last
asked me if I could let him see something. I accordingly
obtained for him an invitation to a seance with the youngest
Mrs. Mary Marshall, a lady who once was a professional
medium, but who will now sit for nobody but her private
friends. I said, “ Now I am going to take you to see some of
these phenomena, and you, as a dabbler in science, must ex¬
plain them to me then and there; and not go away and
afterwards raise complicated theories ignoring half the facts.”
When we got to the. house, he, I, and Mrs. Marshall sat at a
little round table by daylight, a bright sunny day. Tasked, “Are
there any spirits present ? ” Three raps replied. I then asked,
“What is his name? ” “Henry,” was the reply. “ Who are
you?” “ His mother.” “ What is your name ? ” “Elizabeth.”
I turned to him and said, “Was your mother’s name Eliza¬
beth ? ” “ Oh yes, yes,” he replied rather excitedly, “ but
what has that to do with it?” (Laughter.) I said, “He
believes that a table cannot rise against the law of gravitation;
can it?” The table, with our hands on the top of it, then
rose bodily off the ground, about a foot in the air, and re¬
mained there while I counted a hundred, then it jocularly
gave him and me a poke in the breast, and went down again.
You may say, as many do, that this table-moving is unworthy
of spirits; but remember I had to show that man something
which would shake his materialistic views; hence the use of
these lower phenomena of Spiritualism, rather than the higher,
to meet that peculiar condition of mind. We then had some
music to which the little table danced in perfect time, and all
at once a big round table in the room with nobody near it
actually began dancing too, vis-a-vis with the little one
(laughter); the large table was altogether untouched by any¬
body. He seemed alarmed and excited, and said, “ Come
along. Come away.” “No,” said I, “I have come a long
way to this seance; tell me here, with the facts before you, the
weak point in what you have seen. I will not move from this
room till you do.” (Laughter). “Well,” said he, “I freely
admit that I do not know the weak point in what I have seen;
but as for spirits, it’s out of the question.” I did not blame
him. It is all I ever ask from a sceptic that the facts be
admitted; we may fairly differ as to conclusions (applause).
The gentleman I have spoken of was Mr. Henry Heathorne, of
Upper Norwood. Before closing my remarks I wish to say a
few words about the extraordinary article by Dr. Carpenter in
the Quarterly Review; I should not mention his name now,
but that he has positively refused to have any discussion after
he reads his paper to you on Spiritualism next Friday, which
I think is very unfair, since, if he repeats what he has already
published, he will give you very false impressions about the
facts, and he will not have both sides of the question con¬
sidered before you. Dr. Carpenter knows nothing of the sub¬
ject beyond a few trivial things he saw eighteen years ago, since
which he has not investigated for himself, yet in his review
he falls foul of Mr. Crookes, Mr. Huggins, Mr. Serjeant Cox,
and Mr. Yarley, who have investigated more or less. He holds
their practical knowledge of Spiritualism as well as that of his
own friend, the late Dr. Bobert Chambers, to be worthless
against his own fallacious theories. Dr. Carpenter has not
advanced one jot in eighteen years. During that period I
have sat in nearly all the best spirit circles in London and I
have never heard Dr. Carpenter’s name mentioned as a gentle¬
man who had made any practical inquiry into the subject
whatever. If therefore he repeats his exploded theories I trust
you will treat him with the contempt he deserves.
Dr. Crisp (from the body of the hall)—It appears to me that
the gentlemen on the platform know each other pretty well.
Mr. Coleman—I do not know them. I have never seen
these gentlemen before.
Dr. Crisp—I protest against the assertions made there, and
the remarks about Dr. Carpenter. The men who are converts
to Spiritualism have some weak point.
The Chairman—You are out of order. Let those whose
names are on the programme speak, and then you shall have
an opportunity to make some remarks. Mr. Elliott will now
address the meeting.
Mr. Elliott—I am on your side, Dr. Crisp, and will not take
up much time. I wish to ask Mr. Coleman, “ Does he know
all that natural law can do ? ”
Mr. Coleman—No, I certainly do not.
Mr. Elliott—Can natural law produce these phenomena ?
Mr. Coleman—Yes, there must be some law.
Mr. Elliott then went on to say that, with reference to the
question whether it were possible that the spiritual phenomena
could take place, he thought that nobody there denied that
they took place, still he would not assert that spirits produced
them. He claimed that spirit agency was no explanation at
all. He admitted the facts of the Spiritualists, but denied
their inferences^ Spiritualism ought to be considered as a
faith, but as a faith it was worthless. Many of the communi¬
cations were very ridiculous, and if they came from departed
friends he would rather not hear from them at all.
Dr. Crisp said that Mr. Coleman had admitted that darkness
was not necessary for spiritual manifestations; he, therefore,
asked Mr. Coleman to come into that room in open daylight,
and show some of the phenomena; if any man floated in that
room before them all, he, (Dr. Crisp) poor as he was, would
give £100 to any charity they might name. (Applause.) This
would do good in every way; it wopid be good for the cause of
truth, and good for the charity which might be selected. He
denied the facts. He denied that a man could float in the air,
so he asked for this fair test. If Mr. Coleman refused his
proposition, he should say that his Spiritualism was baseless
and visionary. He thought that Spiritualists believed they
saw certain things which did not really take place, and every
medical man meets with many such cases in his regular prac¬
tice. He believed Mr. Coleman to be perfectly truthful, but
quite deluded.
Mr. Coleman said that he was not a medium, and did not carry
a medium about With him ; he was an observer, and had only
spoken of . facts witnessed by himself. He did not think that
a public meeting was the best place in which to carry on ex¬
periments of that kind; but he suggested that the society
should appoint a committee to investigate the subject, and put
Dr. Crisp—who he was informed was a gentleman much re¬
spected in the neighbourhood—on the committee. He should
be most happy to aid the committee all he could, and if Dr.
Crisp and the committee would only promise to come before
. the society at the end of their inquiry, and publicly bear testi¬
mony to all they had seen, he should be perfectly satisfied.
(Applause).
Mr. J. W. Jackson, 'in his reply, said that the phenomena
obey psychological laws, and should be scientifically in.
vestigated.
The Chairman then put to the meeting the question, “ Do
the doctrines of Spiritualism appear to be true ? ” and asked
for a show of hands for and against.
Several members protested against the question being put,
on the ground that the conflicting testimony was very perplex¬
ing, and they were not in a position to answer the question
without further inquiry. It was then unanimously resolved
that the question should not be put, and after some votes of
thanks to Mr. Jackson and Mr. Coleman had been proposed by
Mr. Gann ell, the secretary, seconded, and passed unanimously,
the meeting broke up. Just before the company separated,
the chairman added that despite what had been said, they
would probably have a discussion after Dr. Carpenter’s lecture.
SPIRITUALISM AND THE LEADERS OE THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
On Friday, January 19th at another meeting of the Chelsea
Literary and Scientific Institution Mr. J. Boyd presided.
There was a good attendance, but only four or five Spiritualists
among the listeners, so far as we could ascertain.
Dr. W. B. Carpenter, F.B.S., Registrar of London University,
said that he was not going to enter into any discussion that
evening, but only to state the results of discussion. Science
was only disclipined common-sense, such as was used in every¬
day life, and trained men of science were consequently emi¬
nently [qualified to trace out sources of error, so that in
dealing with some such, he might compare himself to a de¬
tective policeman. He then narrated how unexpected sources
of error had been detected in thermometers once used to
register deep sea pressures, because the pressure of the water
flattened the bulbs. He next stated how men were liable
to be deceived by their sensations, as illustrated by the ex¬
ample that when two men, the one very warm and the other
very cold, went together into a room of medium temperature,
they would disagree in their testimony; one would say the
room felt warm, and the other that it felt cold. After stating
that some of the phenomena of Spiritualism were merely
waking dreams, he said that the same class of people believed
in Spiritualism who formerly believed in mesmerism, and that
many phenomena were common to both. He had investigated
mesmerism thirty years ago, and when he began the inquiry
he was, if anything, biassed in favour of mesmerism, because
of the testimony of two of his sisters. His sole object during
life had been to discover truth, and his father used to say to
him, “ A wise man will always change his mind when he sees
occasion for it; ” Schiller had also said that “The philosopher
always loves truth better than his system,” and these two
leading principles had guided him (Dr. Carpenter) all through
his life. (Applause). He then at great length described two
or three experiments in mesmerism he had seen tried many
years ago ; the result being that he denied that there was any
clairvoyance, and he denied that there was any community of
taste or feeling between the mesmeriser and his subject; in
one case he had seen in Bristol, where there appeared to be a
transference of taste, he had no doubt that the sensitive, who
was a perfectly honest person, had her natural senses very
much sharpened, so that she smelt the eatables and drink¬
ables that passed into the mouth of the operator. Doctors
sometimes met with cases where the sense of hearing was so
sharpened, that the patient could hear conversations going on
in another room, of which nobody else present heard a
word. In speaking of Dr. Elliotson’s experiments in
mesmerism, he said that his two celebrated sensitives, Alexis
and Adolphe, got the information they required out of the
suggestive questions of the askers; they were artful impostors.
The boy once employed in the office of Mr. Serjt. Cox, who was
said to be a good mesmeric subject, was detected as an impostor
by Sir John Forbes, Dr. Sharpey, and others; the boy succeeded
in imposing upon Mr. Serjeant Cox, and the whole of the facts
were set forth in a book, Illustrations of Modern Mesmerism,
by Sir John Forbes, published by Churchills. Dr. Carpenter
then spoke of Mr. Braid’s experiments in mesmerism, and after
speaking for an hour and fifty-five minutes on a few experi¬
ments in mesmerism made twenty or thirty years ago, he
began to speak of Spiritual phenomena. He then said,
that as he had stated in the Quarterly Review in 1853,
table-moving was all unconscious muscular' action. He
then spoke of some friend of his who had told him how a
button or key, suspended by a thread, held by the thumb and
finger, would swing in a particular way; this was due to a
slight involuntary action; if the holder of the thread shut his
eyes so as not to see the button, the motions in question
would cease. He placed great reliance upon much that Mr.
Wallace said upon subjects he had investigated; still Mr.
Wallace had said that an aggregate of testimony must be
believed, that there was nothing which ought not to be be¬
lieved, if vouched for by sufficient testimony; if so, there is
nothing better attested than witchcraft, and the Roman
Catholic miracles must all be accepted (Hear, hear, and
laughter). He would not say whether they ought to he ac¬
cepted or not. He thought that the desire to believe in
Spiritualism introduced many suspicious elements into the
narratives ; he did not say that what Spiritualists stated ought
to be altogether discredited; but his position towards Spiri¬
tualists was, “ I believe you believe it; but I must judge
whether your belief is sufficient reason for my belief.” Dr.
Garth Wilkinson had said that scientific men must have
faith. Well, they had faith in the law of gravitation, and that
a man could not float eighty feet in the air without artificial
support. Mr. Grant Duff, the under-secretary to the India
Office, recently told him that he had sent a telegram from
WhitehaU to Teheran in Persia, and had a reply in seventeen
minutes; it was faith in scientific principles which resulted in
such an achievement, and which caused wires to be built for
the purpose all the way from London to Central Asia. By
faith in scientific principles, men began boring the Mont
Cenis Tunnel at opposite ends, and so true were the principles,
that when they met in the centre of the mountain, the two
great bores were only six inches out. He must close in a
few minutes, and, perhaps, many of his hearers might say that
he had not fairly grappled with the facts of Modern Spiri¬
tualism (Hear, hear). He did not come there for the purpose
of doing so; he had only promised the managers to give his
own experiences. Everybody who had studied child-life knew
that to the child many things were real, which the experienced
man knew to be subjective, and not objective, and that they
were the conceptions of the child’s imagination. There was
one fact of this kind in connection with “ psychic force,”
which he would grapple with. Mr. William Crookes had sent
a paper to the Royal Society last summer, containing investi¬
gations into what he called a new force. It was returned to
him by the secretary, with a letter telling him that the Society
would not refuse to receive papers upon the subject, but that
some kind of scientific evidence ought to be given. After re¬
ceiving such a warning as that from a man sitting in the chair
of Newton, at Cambridge, Mr. Crookes ought in future to
have been more careful in the application of tests. Mr. Crookes,
however, afterwards sent in a second series of experi¬
ments. The secretary did not like to refuse this paper qn his
own responsibility, so it came before the council of the Royal
Society; he (Dr. Carpenter) was not on the council, so he had
nothing do with the matter. It was a most unusual thing for
the council to refuse a paper sent in by a member. Mr.
Crookes’s second paper came before the council a month ago,
and a committee of two was appointed to examine it. They
gave in their report to the council yesterday (Thursday, January
25th, 1872), and it was unanimously resolved that the paper
be returned to him, as in the opinion of the Royal Society it
was good for nothing. Anybody who had a pair of scales in
the house, could make an experiment to prove the fallacy of
one of the points in Mr. Crookes’s paper.
Dr. Carpenter here adjusted a balance on the lecture table;
a glass of water was placed in the one scale, and it was just
counterpoised by the weights placed in the other. He then
asked the chairman to dip his fingers in the water without
touching the glass, upon which that side of the balance was
depressed, because the immersion of the fingers in the water
increased the weight. Dr. Carpenter then stated that Mr.
Crookes in his paper had mistaken this natural increase of
weight, for the action of a supposed “ psychic force ” proceed¬
ing from the body of Mr. Home. Great applause followed the
performance of this experiment.
A listener here handed a written question to the chairman,
requesting him to ask Dr. Carpenter whether Mr. Crookes had
not allowed for the normal pressure caused by the immersion
of Mr. Home’s fingers in water, and then obtained several
pounds of pressure in addition ?
The Chairman placed this twice before Dr. Carpenter, who
took no notice of it, and left it lying before him on the table
throughout the rest of the lecture.
Dr. Carpenter then said that Mr. Crookes in his paper told
how he obtained vibrations of a parchment surface, while the
hand of a medium was placed a short distance above it. Why,
Professor Wheatstone had made a very sensitive parchment
surface, which would register vibrations of air; it would not
exactly write down a speech, but it would draw curves. All
these things were perfectly well known; they were the ABC
of scientific men. (Loud applause.) One day a man found
that with his fingers he could get a deflection of a magnetic
needle; it was the same when he tried the experiment in his
shirt; Mr. Crookes would doubtless call this psychic force.
Not at all; it was all due to the man having steel springs in
his wig. (Laughter.) He thought the fairest attitude towards
Spiritualism in its present stage was to suspend judgment
about it until scientific men had pronounced an opinion, and
this course he advised his hearers to adopt. He then spoke
of methods known to science by which very hot bodies could
be handled by the bare hands, without the operator being
burnt; the hand can be instantaneously dipped in molten iron
without being burnt if it be removed at once, the reason it was
not burnt being that a cushion of vapour was formed all round
the hand at its first immersion.* He might state that he was
aware that a gentleman was present who wished to have a dis¬
cussion, but he (Dr. Carpenter) had refused permission to the
secretary to allow any discussion; he did not wish to enter
into a controversy with a gentleman who “ thanked God he
was not a scientific man.” If he spoke, it would have to be
in his (Dr. Carpenter’s) absence.
Mr. Coleman then rose from his seat, and the Chairman
asked Dr. Carpenter if he would hear Mr. Coleman. Dr.
Carpenter said “ no,” and hastily gathered together his papers,
and retreated in a somewhat precipitate manner from the
platform and from the hall.
The Chairman asked whether it was the wish of the meeting
that there should be a discussion; many hands were held up
and Mr. Coleman was invited by the Chairman to come upon
the platform amid considerable applause.
Mr. Coleman said that Dr. Carpenter had laid down many
principles which nobody denied, but he asked even the most
prejudiced of those present, whether the unconscious muscular
action theory was any explanation of the fact of solid objects
such as tables, often going up in the air without being touched
by any one. Not only had most Spiritualists witnessed facts
like this, but such phenomena had been attested by men like
Mr. Yarley, Dr. Garth Wilkinson, Mr. Alfred Wallace, Pro¬
fessor de Morgan, and other of Dr. Carpenter’s superiors in
the scientific world.
Here a gentleman rose in a very excited state and said:—
Why don’t you make that table go up ? It is not your saying
that the moon is made of green cheese will cause us to believe
it. If you will move that chair without going near it, we will
believe what you say.
Mr. Coleman said that the gentleman who spoke last was
evidently in a passion. He begged to tell that gentleman he
could not make a chair or table go up, and never pretended to
be able to do so; he was simply a person who had observed
these phenomena for a long series of years, and spoke out to
a misguided and prejudiced public that which he knew to be
true. He had told Dr. Crisp at the last meeting that he should
be glad if the Chelsea Scientific Institution would appoint
a committee to witness the facts for themselves, and report
thereon to the society. Dr. Carpenter had received a fee of
five guineas for that night’s lecture, and it was money spent
in a bad cause, for if the society appointed the above com¬
mittee, the report of the committee would infallibly prove that
Dr. Carpenter’s recent utterances about Spiritualism, in the
press and on the platform, were nearly ah wrong, and mis¬
leading. (Cheers and hisses.) The report of the Committee
of the Dialectical Society proved that he was altogether
wrong. He believed that Dr. Carpenter had done his utmost
to secure the rejection of Mr. Crookes’s paper by the Council
of the Royal Society; if it had been accepted, it would have
demonstrated what rubbish Dr. Carpenter had of late been
promulgating.
The proceedings then closed. There was no vote of thanks
to the lecturer.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Several letters and poetical contributions, not published, have
been received. We hope to find room for some of them in our
next.
The little paragraph about the Polytechnic Institution in our last
originated in some false information from a person who knew the
facts, given to us with intent to deceive. All newspapers are
subject to hoaxes at times, more especially with respect to
“ marriages,” and it is difficult to guard against some of these tricks.
The name “ Mr. Home,” in Dr. Edmunds’ letter in our last, should
have been “Mr. Heme.” ■
* Scientific Spiritualists were perfectly aware of this before, and in our
account of the handling of hot coals by Mr. Home, and of his turning
over the white hot coals in the centre of a large fire with his bare hands, we
told how and why anybody could dip their hands in molten iron, as stated
by Dr. Carpenter, but not in hot coals for a prolonged time.—See the
Spiritualist of March 15th, 1870.—Ed.
16
THE SPIRITUALIST
Fm 15, 1872.
FACTS FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, coat it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPHtlTUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. C. F. Yarley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. C. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home.
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—
“Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham; Alfred B. 'Wallace, Esq., Holly House, Bark¬
ing; Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, B.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. C. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Grosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Bobert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfleld, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckiugham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a boob, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the boob, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Mr 0. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S., the Atlantic
Cable Electrician, has testified that Spiritual
phenomena are produced by disembodied spirits.
Mr. John Bright; M.P., testified to Mr. J. M.
Peebles, late American Consul at Trebizond, that
he had seen some of the phenomena, and they
appeared to be produced by spirits, though he was
not sure on the point.
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“ Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“ A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts, have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either case, the seances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Daihani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—^Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol,’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
'Wien reports of the speeches Of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Soiritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
iust the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it does not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do hot altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
iournal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
British imperial insurance
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
FOB EFFECTING
BANKING LIFE, & SELF, INSUEANCE POLICIES
ON GOYEBNMENT SECUEITIES.
Head Offices:
Brown-street and Marsden-street, Manchester.
Branch Offices
20, King William-street, London, E.C.
Victoria-buildings, 66, Benfleld-street, Glasgow.
4, College-green, Dublin.
1, Brown’s-buildings, Exchange, Liverpool
93, Princess-street, Edinburgh.
Market-place, Douglass, Isle of Man.
THE DISTINGUISHING FEATURES OF THIS SYSTEM ABE
It provides Government Security for the Life Premium
Funds.
All the Premiums (with the exception of one-fifth for
Expenses of Management, Beserve, and Bonuses) are
invested in the Names of Trustees, for the sole purpose
of meeting Policy claims. These Trustees act indepen¬
dently of the Directors.
This form of Security is strictly defined by the General
Deed of Trust, and is unalterable.
An equitable Surrender-value endorse on each Policy
and payable on demand.
From 50 to 70 per cent, of the net Premiums paid (ac
cording to the Table under which the Policy is effected)
can be obtained on demand by Insurants desirous of ceas¬
ing premium paying. The Surrender-value is endorsedon
each Policy, and Policyholders, upon depositing their
Policies with the Corporation, may draw upon the Sur¬
render-value to its full amount, for any purpose, without
sacrificing their Policy; thus using it as a cash balance at
their Bankers. The Surrender-value cannot be forfeited.
Insurants cannot pay more in premiums than the amount
for which they have insured.
Insurants, desirous of ceasing premium paying, and
not wishing to withdraw their “ Surrender-values ” can
obtain “Free” or “Paid-up” Policies, for the whole
amount of Premiums paid, in exchange for the former
Policies held by them.
By this arrangement Insurants who have paid in
premiums, an amount equal to the sum for which they
are insured, can have a “Paid-up” Policy for the full
amount, together with the Bonus additions added there¬
to (if insured, with profits,) granted them in exchange for
their former Policies, without further payment.
Bankers: Bank of England, London. Manchester and
Liverpool District Bank, Manchester. Auditor (To the
Government Security Life Insurance Fund): Dr. William
Farr, F.B.S., &c., &c., London. General Manager: John
A. Feigan. Secretary: William Davies, Brown-street,
Marsden-street, Manchester.
TJ1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospecuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations cf
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
GL H. ANDREWS,
TAILOB, &c.,
61, Lambs Conduit Street, Foundling, W.C.
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist.' Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat-,
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic- machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, YisCount Adare has written a book
hearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Orookes, F.R.S. (editor of The Quartei'ly
Journal of Science), Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Mr.
William Huggins (Vice-president of the Royal
Society), have certified that certain of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism are real. A scientific
committee of professional gentlemen, appointed by
the Dialectical Society, came to the same conclusion
after two years investigation ; their official report
is printed in No. 26 of The Spiritualist.
A work entitled The Boole of Nature, by 0. O.
Groom Napier, F.O.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:—
“There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No ;for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it be no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modem Spiritualism.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated' men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in conta,ct with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change sdats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is/the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of medinmship than tilts or raps
maymake their appearance.
>EGrS to inform Gentlemen, wlio may
£ honour him with their patronage, they can be
supplied with clothes cut in the most fashionable manner,
good materials, and sound workmanship, at very mode¬
rate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many
years in the well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co.,
65, St. James’s Street.
Trousers, from 
Vests  
Black Suit, from
Unrivalled Black Doe
Tweed Suit 
£ s. d.
.. 0 13 6
.. 0 7 0
.. 3 0 0
..110
.. 2 10 0
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
304 pp., 8vo, cloth gilt, price 5s., post free.
LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Thomas L. Harris.
Glasgow: John Thomson, 39, John-street.
On the first of every month.
THE TRUTHSEEKER, a Review
devoted to the advocacy of reverent free
thought in matters pertaining to Eeligion.” Edited by
the Bev. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triibner and Co., 60, Paternoster-row. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Bawson, and John Heywood; and
through all booksellers and agents.
THE BRIXTON SOCIETY OF spiri¬
tualists meets at 98, Lothian-road, North
Brixton.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, MEDICAL
AND BUSINESS CLAIEVOYANTE AND
TEST-MEDIUM, from America, can be consulted daily
at 24, Keppel-street, Bussell-square, W.C. Hours from
10 till 8. Terms, 2is.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF EN-
QUIEEES INTO SPIBITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Buies
on application to the Secretary. Subscription Is. per
montfi in advance. THOS. Blyton, Secretary, &c.
Messrs, herne and williams,
Spirit Mediums, beg to inform investigators that
they are at home daily to give private stances from 12
a.m. to 5 o’clock p.m. They are also open to receive
engagements for private seances in the evening, either at
home or at the residence of investigators. Address, 61,
Lamb’s Conduit-street, Foundling, W.C.
MR. THOMAS R. MASON teaches
thoroughly and rapidly the VIOLIN, BANJO,
and GUITAB, at his Musical Academy, 134, Penton-
ville Boad, N., or at the pupil’s residence. Terms sent
on application.
“A Violin Solo (comique), entitled ‘ Echoes,’ per¬
formed by Mr. T. B. Mason. It consisted of Echoes of
London, Echoes of the Christy Minstrels, and Imita¬
tions of the Old Fiddler, the Bagpipes, the Hurdy Gurdy,
the Banjo, Paganini, and the Cries of Animals in a Farm¬
yard. The Imitations were remarkably good.”—London
Daily Chronicle.
BEYERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of
The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-BENTS, HOLBOBN, W.C.,
Bespectfully announce that they execute ALL descrip¬
tions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
i
Aaron
BIBDS,
FRANKLIN, PRESERYER OF
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOB OF
NATUBE, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads, fox's heads,
shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham. ■
A YOUNG LADY, aged 20, a Physical
Medium, desires a Situation in or near London
as GOVEBNESS. Teaches English, Arithmetic, Music,
Singing, Budimentary French and Drawing. Good
Eeferences. Address, C. M. M., 3, Comwallis-road, Hol¬
loway, N.
Footfalls on the boundary
OF ANOTHEB WOBLD. An Enlarged English
Copyright Edition. Post 8vo. Pp. xx—392. Cloth
7s. 6d.
The debatable land between
THIS WOBLD AND THE NEXT.—By HQBRRT
Dale Owen, Author of “ Footfalls on the Boundary of
another World.'’ 1 vol. crown 8vo. cloth. Price 9s.
Now Beady, Crown 8vo.. pp. viii. 120, cloth, price 2s. 6d.
Hints for the eyidences of
SPIBITUALISM.” By M. P.
London: Triibner and Co., 8 and 60, Paternoster-row-
Now Beady. 4th Edition. 8vo. cloth, pp. 360. Price 3s. 6d
THE “ ALPHA,” or the first principle
of the Human Mind: a Bevelation, but no Mystery.
By Ed. N. Dennys. With Spiritual Advent and steel'
engraving of Author.
“We can call to mind few books fit to be its fellow.”—
Athenseum.
“ It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and logic,
than any work we have ever read; it is a new revelation,
and one of the most remarkable productions ever given-
to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
“ The 1 Alpha ’ is the book of an age.”—Banner of Light.
Also by the same author, “ LIFE LECTURES,” cloth
8vo. pp. 460, with steel engraving of Author,'3s. 6d..
J. BUBNS, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
Now ready, price 4s.
The journal of the anthro-
POLOGIAL INSTITUTE OF GBEAT BEITAIN
AND IBELAND, No. II. October 1871, containing
papers by Major Godwin-Austen on the Khasi Hill
Tribes; Bev. Dr. Callaway on Divination, &c., among the'
Natives of Natal; Mr. F. G. N. Price on the Quissama
Tribe of Angola;. Lieut. Musters, B.N., on the Baces of
Patagonia; Mr. Hodder Westropp on Analagous Coin¬
cidences among unconnected Nations; Mr. H. Howorth
on Westerly Driftings of Nomades; with Discussions
and Anthropological Miscellanea. London: Triibner
and Co.
Just Published.
The report of the London
DIALECTICAL SOCIETY’S Committee on Spirit¬
ualism, together with a full account of the proceedings of
the Committee, the Beports and Minutes of the Experi¬
mental Sub-committees, and the evidence, pro and contra..
of the following eminent persons:—Lord Lytton, Lord
Lindsay, Lord. Borthwick; the Countess de PomSr;
Professor Huxley, Professor Tyndall; Drs. W. B.
Carpenter, Chambers, Davey, Dixon, Edmunds, Kidd,
Bobertson, Garth Wilkinson; Mr. Serjeant Cox;
Messrs. Edwin Arnold, Henry G. Atkinson, Laman
Blanchard, Chevalier, Damiani, Ldon Favre, Camilla
Flammarion, Hain Friswell, D. D. Home, William
Howitt, H. D. Jencken, George Henry Lewes, Hawkins
Simpson, J. Murray Spear, T. Adolphus Trollope, Crom¬
well Varley, A..B. Wallace, W, M. Wilkinson; Mesmes.
Anna Blackwell, Hardinge, Houghton, &c., &c., &c. Price
15s. London: Longmans, Green, Beader, and Dyer.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One
Volume Demy 8vo., pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg: his
LIFE AND WETTINGS. By WILLIAM
WHITE.. Wherein the History, the Doctrines, and
the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin
and Condition of the Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume
is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings, by Mr. C.
H. Jeens—1. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II.
Emanuel Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s
House, Stockholm. IV. Swedenborg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co. H
The rise and progress of
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently published in the Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured wrapper
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
may be had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and are of especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject
of Spiritualism.
THE SPIRITUALIST.—No. 1 of The
Spiritualist contains an overwhelming weight of
evidence for the general public, as to the truth and
reality of Spiritual phenomena. No. 13 contains the-
leading arguments in favour of and against the theory
that the manifestations are due to Satanic agency-
No. 26 contains the Official Beport of the Committee of
the Dialectical Society on Spiritualism, the result of two •
years investigation.
London : E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, E.C.
©emtents.
Spiritualism and the Eoyal Society   9'-
The Appearance of a Spirit through Mrs. Guppy’s
Mediumship  9'
St. John’s Association of Spiritualists  10
On Miracles'  30
The Systematic Appearance of Spirits at Seances ... 10
Another Fasting Girl   12
The Efficacy of Prayer     12
Bemarkable Dream Story    ... 12
The Human “ Double ”   12
The Boyal Institution   ■" ...   12
Dr. Edmunds and the Dialectical Beport  13
Dr. Carpenter Called to Account  ... 13
Dr, Carpenter and Psychic Force  33
The Anthropological Institute   13
Messrs. Heme and Williams’s Mediumship   13
The Philosophy of Prayer  •  ... 13-
Poetry :—Sandalphon   14
Correspondence:—The Davenport Brothers; Mat¬
ter and Spirit; Flowers brought at a Stance ... 14
Mr. J. J. Morse’s Mediumship...    14
Spiritualism in Chelsea       14
Answers to Correspondents   ... 15
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser,
at the Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Bents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London ,and published
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London E.C.
