[Registered as a Newspaper,
(ilfrest itilo'Spapt bif^ ^piritxtalxsm in (&xmt griiiritt*
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : 38, Great Russell-street, W.C. (opposite the British Museum), and u, Ave
Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG; 2, Lindenstrasse, ROME : The Inter>
national Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazipnale. LIEGE : 37, Rue Florimont
BUDA-PESTH: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK!
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 3x9, Rearney-street.
No. 188. (VOL. Vin.—No. 18.) LONDON J FNIDA-Yj MANOH 31j 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Eontenta.
“ Forewarned, Forearmed "     145
The Meaning of the Spirit Hand. By Epes Sargent ... 145
Spirit Teachings. No. XL VIII 147
Pranks by Spirits. By Baron Von Dirckinck-Holmfeld 148
Scientific Spirit Messages   ... 149
Transactions of the National Association of Spiritualists:
—Clairvoyance—Dr. Gully’s Experiences in Clairvoy¬
ance—Mr. Cromwell Varley’s Experiences in Clairvoy¬
ance—The Future Foreseen—Clairvoyance and Thought-
Reading—M. Gustave deVeh’s Experiences in Clairvoy¬
ance—A Symbolical Vision of the Path to Heaven—An
Adventure on the Ohio River 150
Correspondence:—The Last Council Meeting of the Na¬
tional Association—Hafed, Prince of Persia—An
American View of the Spiritual Phenomena — The
Bamford Boys in Holland—A Case of Distress—Publius
Syrus—Metempsychosis—Mr. Blackman’s Free Seances
—Colonel Olcott on a Relic from the Grave—Goethe
as a Medium    ... 153
Provincial News:—Newcastle-on-Tyne, Public Contention
about Spiritualism—Experiments in Mesmerism { Liver¬
pool, The Liverpool Psychological Society—Master John
Moore's Mediumship—Sunday Services  156
Paragraphs:—National Association Soiree, 146; Mr. J. J.
Morse in London, 150; Miss Wood's Mediumship, 155;
Spiritualism in Blackfriars, 155; An Undertaker’s
Sorrow for the Bereaved, 155; A Suffering Sensitive ... 166
Established in 1869. r
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
V-I erown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. J. 8el wood, 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday s issue should reach the
office not later than hy the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London, E.C. ■   
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD
THEIR NEXT CONVERSAZIONE
On Wednesday, April 5th, 1876, at their Rooms, 38, Greed
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W. C.
Entrance in Wdburn-street.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for
the benefit of Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting
friends and members, and of discussing matters of interest
connected with the Spiritualistic movement.
Music and other entertainments will be provided at each
meeting.
Hours from 7 to 10.80 p.m.
Admission by Tickets, to be obtained of the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Rub sell-street, Bloomsbury,
W.O.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM & LIBRARY
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to members and inquirers. News¬
papers and periodicals connected with Spiritualism, from
all parts of the world, and various high-claSs journals, are regu¬
larly supplied. The library contains, in addition to the best
writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, speculative, and
scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes
membership and the loan of two books from the library;
10s. 6d. a year, one book from the library. Non-members can
subscribe 5s. for one quarter for the free use of the Reading-
room, but without the advantage of the Lending Library.
A Seance-room can be engaged under special arrangements,
to be learned from the Secretary.
Open from 10.80 a.m. to 9 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
EFLEXIONEN AUS DER GEISTER-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Josefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London:
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The /Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VHI.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XL—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just betn issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s 6d. each, at The Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, IL.D, etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
 row, 
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRITISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at. Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23. 
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psyoho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the SocUti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal,
appears on the 1st and 15th of every month. Price
2d., or 5 francs yearly. Belgium—37, Rue Florimont, Lifege.
London—The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Oapucines, Paris.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUS¬
CULAR DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church,
74, Queen's-road, Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Ope¬
rators sent to all parts. Terms per arrangement.
J. Coates, Principal.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas,
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
MRS. WOODFORDE hegs to announce her
CHANGE OF RESIDENCE to 8, Milton-street, Dorset-
square (near Baker-street Station), where she will be glad to
welcome, as of old, all friends and visitors. Physical seances
with two first-class mediums, will be held as usual, every Thurs¬
day and Saturday evenings. Usual manifestations—direct
voice, direct writing, and materialisations (if conditions serve)
of the friends of visitors, also a new materialised musical in¬
strument, playod (it is said by Blondel) with remarkable skill
in accompaniment of the musical box. Especial invitations
will be issued for the Saturday evenings, and an introdnetion
from some well-known Spiritualist is requested for the Thurs¬
day evenings. All friends who have been in the habit of
attending Mrs. Woodforde’s seances will always be welcome.
Admission, 5s.
Mrs. Woodfordo is also open to engagements for private
physical seances to be held at her own residence; a few days
previous notice must be given. Names will be received for a
daylight seance to be held shortly. With pleasant rooms
open to her visitors, and every effort made to obtain superior
manifestations, Mrs. Woodforde hopes to afford those who
will honour her with their presence, some mo&t agreeable and
satisfactory seances.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.;
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman's
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TWO DAYLIGHT SEANCES through the
mediumship of Mr. W. Eglinton, will be given at the
residence of Mrs. Woodforde, 8, Milton-street, N.W. (a few
doors from Maryiebone-road), on Wednesdays the 5th and 12th
of April. These being the only Seances of the kind Mr. Eglin¬
ton can give previous to his departure for the provinces, he
begs that any friends desirous of attending them will send in
their names to Mrs. Woodforde not later than the 3rd or 10th
of April. Seance will begin punctually at 3 p.m. Fee, 5s.
Birmingham.—it is proposed to hold a
CONFERENCE and TEA-PARTY at the Athenaeum
on Easter Sunday. Meetings to commence at 11 a.m., 3.0 and
7 p.m. The Spiritualists of Worcester, Coventry, Leamington,
Wolverhampton, Walsall, Dudley, Bromsgrove, and any other
places in the Midland district, are invited to attend, with the
view of arranging a system of periodic propaganda meetings
at their several localities, including camp meetings during
summer. Those persons who intend to be present are requested
to communicate with the undersigned, in order that arrange¬
ments may be made for dining (with brethren here), and for
the tea-party.—Robert Harper, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
SOUTH LONDON ASSOCIATION OF
INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM. List of meetings
during the week: Sunday, Trance or other Address at Seven;
Monday, Discussion and Conversational Meeting at Eight;
Tuesday, Developing Circle, at Eight, members only ; Thurs¬
day, Seance at Eight, members only; Fi iday, Seance at Eight,
members only; Saturday, Seance at Eight, non-members, Sd,
Members Is. per quarter, and 2d, on attending a Seance. Any
further information can be obtained at the rooms on any
evening. J. Bubton, Bon. Secretary.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London Simekin, Marshai l & Co.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends, and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniog.
A Pamphlet With fall particulars, may be had on application.
FftANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
March 31, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
'oleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hiU, Hendon, Middlesex,
sr.w.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Or well-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islmgton.sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jeneken, Henry D., M.lt.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Kamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin K., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adsbead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld. W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edvvard-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, llichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Iteigate.
Binney, F, A.,22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Huteheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Bev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E. - ♦
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlliam-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Beading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, B , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6 Bye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobdeu-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourue-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt.,1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, ITaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryliam, 1, King-square, Goswoll-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Riehmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place,York-gate,Regent's
Park., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton. A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath,S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
AVedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. It. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S AY., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.AY.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withal!, Miss II., 1, The Elms, St, John’s-road, Brixton, S.AV.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.AV.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.AV.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.AV.
Honorary Secretary. ' ;
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, AV.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn AVittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Bussie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople. . mM
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M, Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, RueLauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 38th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Glide Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 13, Via Fate bene Fratelli, Milan.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq ,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A. ‘
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
AV. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de i’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Aldlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Houore, Paris.
AV. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary,
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. AV. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, AV.
Signor Damiahi, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis
Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits etMaguetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka Josefstadt. Erzherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, St. Mary-
street, Cardiff.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healino,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress,^, Milton-street, Dorset-square.
Noticb.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seances at her own residence; previous notice required ; fees
upon arrangement with medium. Address, 8, Milton-street,
Dorset-square (a few doors from Marylebone-road).
T. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, SO, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
MRS. MALTBY, Magnetic Healer, 20,
Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C. Mrs. Maltby
receives the patients of Dr. Mack, and others wishing to con¬
sult her, daily between the hours of eleven and five.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member lias a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance.to the offices is in Woburn-street.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Beabers fob 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Eoberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox.
Committee of Management.—Mr. 3. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
Mr. J. Chapman, Mr G. Brown, Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jones,
Mr. William Meredith, Mr. Ainsworth, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
Trustees.—James Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd.
Auditors.—Mr. P. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATOHAED AND CO.,
FURNiSHiNCt Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &o
Chief Office: 47, Crawford-street, Bryanston-
square, W.
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
ART, MAGIC, MUNDANE, SUB-MUN-
dane, AND SUPEE-MUNDANE SPIEITISM.
The European subscribers to this flue work are respectfully
informed that it has just been sent to press, and will be ready
for delivery on or about the 1st of March. In America, where
the work is published, books can be sent by express, and pay¬
ments collected on delivery. As this plan cannot be pursued in
sending hooks to Europe without very heavy express charges,
and the secretary, on the author's behalf, does not feel jus ifled
in sending ont such a rare and valuable book unpaid, those
who have not already remitted their subscriptions, and desire
to obtain their copies with the least possible delay, can send
the amount by Post Office Order, cheque, registered letter, or
any other mode most convenient to themselves. The price
of each copy, as before stated, is five dollars, and the postage
(if prepaid) half-a-dollar. Eemittanees will be immediately
acknowledged, and the book sent by mail (unless otherwise
directed) as soon as ready. — Emma Hardinge Britten,
Secretary for the publication of Art Magic, &c.,206, West 38th-
Btreet, New York, America.
ISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomaniaj Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.C.
PROFESSOR JAMES REGAN, Psychopathic
Healer, 37, Hart-street, Bloomsbury square, London,
W.C. Professor Began begs to announce that he has removed
to the above central address from his late residence, South
Kensington. Personal attendance to patients, and terms in
accordance with their means. Hours from 12 till 5 daily.
nVTOTICE. — CHANGE OF RESIDENCE. —
_L 1 Mrs. Olive has removed to 15, Ainger-terraoe, Ainger-
road, King Henry's-road, Primrose-hill, N.W. Three minutes
from Chalk-farm Station; five minutes from omnibus to
Oxford-street or West-end. Stances as usual for clairvoyance,
medical mesmerism, trance, tests, &c. Private seances by
arrangement; public ditto, Tuesdays, 7 p.m., Fridays, 3 p.m.;
admission, 2s. 6d. Visiis within ten miles two guineas, in¬
clusive.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND EUBBEE, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To he seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to he addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distanee can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, the Physical
Medium being about to make a tour in the Provinces,
desires that all London engagements with him should be made
as soon as possible, as he will probably leave London by the
end of May. He is at liberty to receive engagements during
the day or evening at private houses. Address, Mr. Willie
Egliuton, St. James’s House, Walthamstow.
CLAIRVOYANCE, and HEALING by SPIRIT
MESMERISM.—Test Communications through Trance
and Writing. Seances by Mrs. Olive, the well-known Spirit-
Medium, on Thursday (other days by appointment only), from
two to four p.m, for Private Consul lation, and four to five for
Public Seance, at 38, Great Eussell-street, Bloomsbury. Mrs.
Olive also holds Public Seances at her residence, 49, Belmont-
street, Chalk-farm-road, N.W., on Tuesdays, seven p.m., and
Fridays, three p.m. Terms—Private Seances, one guinea;
Public ditto, admission 2s. 6d. Mrs. Olive’s Healing Powers
are now well established, and testified to by many who employ
no other medical aid. Special terms for courses of treatment
on application. Single visits for consultation, &c., within t
miles, two guineas inclusive.
Mediumship , its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
3|ir[Xit[ir til xtf ^
VojLUjviE Biqht. Kumber Thirteen.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 31st, 1876.
“FOREWARNED, FOREARMED.” jj
By hard, by most disagreeable experience, the Spiritual i j
movement has learnt that strong physical mediumship is |
not always connected with persons of the highest character, |!
as evidenced in Buguet, whose misdeeds have given a heavy I
blow to Spiritualism in France, and have sent an innocent |
man to prison—in the Holmeses, who deceived Mr. Dale |
Owen, and temporarily damaged the whole movement in js
America—and in the celebrated Eddy Brothers, who, like j
Buguet, are among the most unlimited liars that ever drew i
breath. All these are powerful and genuine mediums when | j
they choose to exercise the genuine gift, and marvels take !
place in their presence of the utmost interest to the world |
at large. Experienced people, who have studied the more |
powerful phenomena continuously in their own homes, have !
generally come to the conclusion that in the evil deeds !)
already mentioned, the spirits are usually to blame, and not i
the mediums, who are seldom, if ever, in an entirely normal ;
state, but are tyrannically governed by an unseen power, j)
All this seems to be in accordance with the law, that “ the j
lower and more degraded the spirit, the greater is its me- s K
chanical power over common matter.” These facts have [ ||
several times over been pointed out in these pages, because |)
they are not yet generally accepted as truths by Spiritualists |
who have had but moderate experience, and because public |
trouble can, in the future be avoided only by Spiritualists !
knowing these things, and individually and collectively jj
refusing to guarantee any physical medium or any particular j
manifestation in which the assumption of integrity on the jj
part of the medium forms any link in the chain of evidence, jj
the mediums being governed by unseen, changeable powers, j
some good, some evil. iifmbjl
The intention on the present occasion is not to harp . j j
further on the above string, but to point out another serious j j
danger, namely, the general abnormally furious jealousy of jj
physical mediums of each other—a jealousy strangely fiercer t j j
than anything ever witnessed among average mortals, j j
When Mr. Carleton Massey wrote from America that jj
William Eddy’s sister was a better medium than himself, j j
we, without any direct information to that effect, printed that j j
he would find William Eddy furiously jealous about the j
remark, and that further investigation at his seances on the j j
part of Mr. Massey would be almost impossible. After- jj
wards came the news that the Eddy Brothers denied their jj
sister to be their sister, and that they invented and circulated j
the most atrocious things about her moral character. This j
is no exceptional case. We have often known jealous jj
physical mediums to make desperate attempts to ruin each j
other by the invention of circumstantial and precise un- jj
truths, in which dates, names, and witnesses all fall nicely j
into their proper places, the whole drama being, however, a j
complete and most malicious fiction. These things are not j
exceptional, but common; Mr. Luxmoore, Dr. Gully, Mr. j >
Blackburn, Mr. Coleman, Colonel Olcott, and other Spirit- jj
ualists of long experience know all the particulars of several j j
flagrant cases of the kind among noted mediums, who treat jj
each other far worse than themselves are treated by those of j j
the uninformed public who-believe them to be impostors, jj
The damage done to the movement by this is great; worse j j
than all it is a source of internal dissension, because in- j
experienced Spiritualists listen open-mouthed to the cock- j j
and-bull, or rather “ man-and-dog ” stories of a medium jj
they chance to know, and instead of inquiring into the jj
truth thereof, and straightway convicting the fabricator, they jj
allow them to influence the thoughts and acts of themselves j j
and friends. j j j
The remedy for all this is that Spiritualists shall hold each j j jj
other as responsible for any libel they may repeat on the j j
authority of a physical medium, as if they had invented it
themselves; also that every medium shall be considered to be
entirely out of court in dealing with any question as to the
genuineness or otherwise of the manifestations given through
any other medium, and that any disparaging remarks in
relation thereto shall be sternly rebuked.
The preceding remarks do not apply to truthful mediums,
to those who never speak evil of each other, but to those,
only who are dead to all sense of veracity. Of course there
is high class mediumship, free from the abuses which have
been recapitulated, mediumship by which the sick are healed,,
and the higher verities of the life to come made known.
The dark side of the picture is now dwelt upon with the
regret that such a course is necessary; for unless precautions
in this matter be taken, sooner or later public trouble of
some kind will fall upon the movement, either in this country
or America. When physical mediums and their spirits are
well kept in order, there will be much more internal
harmony and safety in the spiritual movement than there is
at present. All who have had long experience at home
with powerful physical mediums know the necessity for these
cautionary remarks.
THE MEANING OF THE SPIRIT HAND.
BY EPES SARGENT.
Among the earliest phenomena of modern Spiritualism
was that of the spirit hand. I have repeatedly seen and felt
it under conditions which left no vestige of doubt in my
mind as to the fact; and I have conversed with many inves¬
tigators, whose opportunities for testing the manifestation
have been superior to my own.
I was conversing on the subject the other day with Dr.
H. F. Gardner, one of the earliest of our American students
in Spiritualism, and he told me that on one occasion, when
D. D. Home was the medium, a spirit hand became mate¬
rialised out of a luminous vapour in broad daylight. “I
grasped it,” said Dr. Gardner, u and held on to it, while I
examined it carefully. I found it in every respect like a
perfect human hand. Then I willed mentally that it should
become warm, and afterwards cold, and then melt away and
disappear while I was holding it, and all this it did! ”
Early in January, 1876, I attended a sitting at The
Banner of Light office, Boston, at which Mrs. Mary M.
Hardy sat for the moulding of spirit hands. I sat on the
platform within three feet of her, and with no one between
us. A pail of hot water, with a thin layer of melted paraffin
floating on top of it, was brought on to the platform. Before
Mrs. Hardy was a small pine table, formed of a simple
plank, with four slender posts for legs. Over this plank a
cloth, reaching to the floor, was thrown by two gentlemen
well known to me, and selected by the critical spectators to
superintend the process; and then the pail was placed in the
little dark chamber formed by the cloth under the table.
“0, it is all very simple,” the eager sceptic will say;
(s the medium had her feet free; she had an artificial hand
concealed, and this she worked with her foot, so as to make it
form a glove in the paraffin.”
The absurdity of such a solution can only be realised by
one who sat where I did, and watched as I did the whole
external performance. In two or three minutes there was a
rap from some invisible force on the table, the cloth was
thrown up, and on the floor, visible to all, lay two delicate
gloves of paraffin, light as gossamer, perfect in every part,
and indicating by the bend of the fingers, and the part of the
wrist attached, that for a human, fleshly hand to have extri¬
cated itself from the glove, leaving it in that form, would
have been difficult, if not impracticable.
Since that exhibition a condition has been added, under
which, in the presence of Dr. H. F. Gardner, Mr. Luther
146
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 31, 1876.
Colby, and other investigators, the fact of the moulding of
the spirit hand has been placed beyond a doubt. Mrs. Hardy
was still the medium. A box had been procured, with
wooden bottom, cover, and posts; the sides were of a strong
wire, known as a three-eighths mesh. The wire carried
around the box was in a single piece, the two ends coming
together on one of the corner posts, and at the point of con¬
tact being covered with a strip of wood firmly nailed to the
post. The cover of the box was made in two parts, opening
from the centre outward ; one of these covers was arranged
to be secured with two bolts, and the other fastened with a
lever lock. The box, constructed under the directions of
Dr. Gardner, and in the interests of those desiring a thorough
test, was 30 inches long, 30 deep, and 24 wide.
No table was used at the trial sittings; the condition of
darkness being obtained by simply throwing a black cloth
over the box, inside of which the pail containing the melted
paraffine was placed. At the initiatory seance a hand was
moulded, but when the box was opened the glove was found
floating in the pail on the hot paraffin, and nearly melted;
although one finger which had fallen outside the pail was
secured, and a cast of it taken* A second seance was more
successful j and at a third a well defined paraffin glove of a
feminine hand was found beside the pail when the box was
unlocked.
I see from Mr. Reimers’s communications to The Spirit-
ualist that the spirit-hand has been moulded in England
under test conditions almost equal to those adopted at the
seances of Mrs. Hardy. If anything were needed to add
force to these tests it will be found in the following letter
from an intelligent sculptor, giving his opinion of certain
casts recently taken in Washington from the paraffin gloves
made by spirit action at Mrs. Hardy’s recent seances in that
city
To whom it may concern :
Washington, D. 0., Jan. 30th, 1876.
This is, on special request, to certify that I am a modeller and
sculptor of twenty-five years’ experience, several of which years I spent
in Italy in the study of the great masters of painting and sculpture ;
that I am at present a resident of Washington, having my studio at
345, Pennsylvania-avenue, and that on the evening of J an. 4th inst.,
I was asked by a friend to repair to the residence of a private citizen,
1016 I street, N. W., Washington, to examine some gypsum casts of
hands and give my judgment thereof; that I was there shown by a
gentleman who was presented to me as Mr. John Hardy, of Boston,
Mass., seven casts of as many different sizes of hands, which I in¬
spected under a strong light, and with the aid of a microscope; that
I found each of these a wonderful production, correctly modelled
according to anatomical laws, and wrought with such minutise as to the
lineaments of the cuticle, etc., as I have never before seen in models of
hands, or any part of the human body, except when the same are made
by the actual application of gypsum or wax to the naked hand, or
other part, in several separate pieces, which when united form a
“ piece-mould,” in which the casts are taken ; that these casts in
question bore no evidence of having been made in “piece-moulds,”
(or v waste-moulds,” as called in my art,) but seemed to have been
cast in solid moulds. That among these casts was one which I was
informed is reputed to be that of the right hand of the late Vice-
President, Henry Wilson, and made since his decease, and which
appeared to me to be singularly like his hand in shape and size, I hav¬
ing viewed his hand a few hours after his death, when taking the only
mask of his face which was made, and purposing to take a mould of
the hand, which I was prevented from doing only 1 y the anxiety of
the awaiting surgeons to perform their mortem eocamination.
I willingly add, as requested, that the above-mentioned cast of Mr.
Wilson’s hand would, if made by our “ modelling tools,” do great
honour, in my opinion, to the most accomplished artist who ever lived ;
that being specifically interrogated upon this point, I fearlessly give it as
my judgment that not more than one in a hundred reputable sculptors
could model such a hand, in all its details, and that it would be
hazardous for that one to try; but there is no method known to my
art in which these casts, in the condition in which they were, as pre¬
sented to me, could be made, except in piece-moulds, as to general con¬
figuration, and then subjected to elaborate carving to hide the seams
and other evidences of the manner of their production—a great work
in itself, when I consider the microscopic inspection which the casts
withstood; that the creation of one of these casts would (if possible to
be effected by any one sculptor, without the aid of a most talented
engraver) require several days’ time; that I was shown on the same
evening at the same place with the casts, two gloves, or moulds of
hands, made of paraffin, in the like of which I was told the casts were
taken ; that I carefully inspected these paraffin moulds, and found that
they were without seams in any part, and must have been made in some
way whole, over some model, like a perfect human hand, for instance,
which model might be dipped several times into some semi-liquid,
adherent substance, like the paraffin, and then withdrawn, leaving the
glove entire; but such was the shape of the gloves and moulds (as well
as that of the casts), with curved fingers, wrists some inches smaller
than the size of the hand at the centre, or over the phalangeometa carpal
joints, &c., that I deemed it impossible to withdraw the gloves whole,
and of even thickness throughout, and was therefore left without any
satisfactory theory of the method of their production.
I am also requested to state that I am not a Spiritualist, have never
attended a seance, or conversed with a “ medium,” so-called, to my
knowledge, and know nothing of the philosophy of “ M odern Spiritual¬
ism,” except what is generally imputed to it as regarding the immortality
of the soul, and the possibility of the spirits of the dead returning ; the
former of which is a matter of faith with me, but of the latter of which
I have no evidence sufficient to entitle me to an opinion thereon pro or
contra. John O’Brien, Sculptor.
If facts like these, coupled with the testimony of the
thousands who have felt, seen, and grasped the spirit-hand,
do not attract the attention of our professed physicists, then
it must be because they are pledged more to Sadduceeism
than to science. The proof of the spirit-hand involves that
of the great fact of the materialisation of the entire human
form, with its appropriate clothing. If out of the cosmic
atoms, forces, or whatever you choose to call them, surround¬
ing us, a spirit can mould and project the facsimile of a
human hand, perfect in every respect to the external senses,
then why may it not materialise a whole body, together with
such drapery as it may choose ? The lesser fact is the one
step which makes easy and credible the larger fact. The
materialised hand, guided by intelligence, is an indication
that it belongs to a potential body, substantial though in¬
visible, and having power to take on at will different forms
and degrees of matter, from that degree which the sensitive
plate of the photographer can catch, to that where the form
becomes visible to the normal sight of several spectators.
Though this spirit-hand be but the A B 0 of the wonder¬
ful science of Spiritualism, it is the key to it all, just as the
alphabet is the key to all recorded literature and science. In
proving the spirit-hand we prove that it is not with shadows
that Spiritualists have been dealing, but with solid facts,
with eternal verities that point to a truth the most interest¬
ing that could fix the attention of a human being; a truth
which must ultimately revolutionise our notions of the
nature of matter and its relations to mind, and which, in
making the immortality of man a scientific conviction, must
force us to orient ourselves anew in respect to all the great
questions, moral, religious, social, and physiological that
have agitated the human mind. For, say what we will, our
civilisation is grossly Sadducean, and the Christian religion
is far from being like the religion of Christ.
In the new-found freedom to which Spiritualism intro¬
duces men, many of them may go off into extravagances
and abuses. Spirits in the flesh and spirits out of the flesh
may continue to work evil as they always have done; but
evil under Providence may be one of the means and condi¬
tions of good. God reigns, and only so much evil is
admitted as could not be avoided without the sacrifice of more
than equivalent good. Evil, in its last analysis, as all the
great seers have told us, is but privation and imperfection.
Without the limitation and the spur of evil there could be
no individuality, no freedom, no high persistent effort, no
satisfaction of right thinking and right acting. As long as
human blessedness lies in activity, as long as no good
attainment by man can be effortless, there must be evils to
transmute and obstacles to overcome.
Spiritualism shows us that there is not an exemption from
this law in the next stage of being; for between that and this
no unbridged hiatus exists. Evil is found there as here,
since man is there as here a progressive being. Happy
those who have made the discipline of this life a stepping-
stone to something higher and better in that life beyond the
present, to which the index finger of the spirit-hand is
pointing! Let us not be at all daunted by the evils and per¬
plexities, which seem to be as incidental to Spiritualism as
to mortal life in general.
Boston, March 10th, 1876.
Mr. J. L. O’Sullivan, of Paris, has lately been in London, and paid
a visit to the rooms of the National Association of Spiritualists.
National Association Soiree.—On Wednesday evening next, at 6.30
p.m., the usual monthly conversazione will be held on the premises of the
National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell-street. These
friendly gatherings are not intended for members only, but for all
Spiritualists and inquirers who desire to attend to spend a social even¬
ing together. Tickets need not be obtained in advance, they can be
purchased at the doors.
Maech 31, 1876,
tfHE SPlEITtALlSf.
Ul
SPIRIT TEACHINGS*
NO. XLVIXI. |\
[Easter Day, 1874. I referred to a communication given j
on the corresponding day of the year previous from Doctor and j
Prudens.\ j
It may serve as a landmark for estimating progress, if yon |
review your feelings then, and contrast them with what you |
now know. You will see how much you have both learned and i
unlearned on matters all-important. We taught you then of |
the resurrection of the soul, in opposition to the resurrection j
of the body. We explained the true theory of the rising of j
the spirit, not in a far distant hereafter, but at the moment j
of bodily dissolution. This was new to you ; it is not so now. j
You have now knowledge of what then seemed unintelligible |
to your mind. We have told you too of the mission of Jesus, I
and of His present work among you through His mes- j
sengers. We have shown to you the true Divinity, the real |
grandeur of the Lcrd whom you had ignorantly worshipped, j
We have shown Him to you as He was, as He always j
described Himself, a man like yourselves, only the noblest |
of the children of men, the likest God, the truest and purest j
ideal of man’s perfection. If we have taken from the Christ |
the halo which a foolish and human creed had spread around j \
Him, we have shown you the man Christ Jesus in divinest j(
form, the full realisation of human perfection on this earth, j)
His body has not indeed been raised, but He has never |
died, and in spirit He manifested to His friends, walked with j
them, as we may one day walk with you, and taught them j
of the truth. I
What you are now witnessing are the signs and wonders ; {
that prelude the opening of a new dispensation, the advent of j
the Lord, not as man has fancied and as your teachers have j
vainly taught, in bodily presence to judge an arisen humanity, j (
but in His new mission (the fulness of the old), through us, j
His messengers and ministers, in the declaration of a new j
evangel to your world. In those events which even now i<
transpire among you we bear our part. It is our mission, |[
under the sacred guidance of Him in whose name we speak, jj
to tell to a world only partly able to bear it a new Gospel |
which, in after ages, shall take its place among the revela- \\
tions of the Supreme to man, and shall be valued as the j
outcome of the past. j j
We have lately been able to act more directly on you, j
because of your increased passivity, and more receptive frame j
of mind. We earnestly encourage you to prayerfulness and j!
stedfastness, together with patient watching. Be not diverted j j
from the purpose for which we labour. Meditate long and I j
frequently on the sacred message which God now sends to ij
earth. Strive to throw aside obstacles and bars to progress, j
We would not have you neglect your daily work. The time I
will come when we shall be able to use you more frequently, jj
That time is not yet come. It is necessary that you go jj
through this additional trial and preparation; meantime, j
dear friend, remember that you need training, even as by j
fire .... you must endeavour to rise above the plane of jj
earth to the higher spheres, where the higher spirits dwell, j
This is our Easter message to you. Awake and arise from j
the dead. Cast aside the gross cares of your lower world, j j
Throw off the material bonds that bind and clog your spirit, j
Rise from dead matter to living spirit; from earthly care to jj
spiritual love; from earth to heaven. Emancipate your j
spirit from earthly cares which are earth-born and un- j
spiritual. Cast aside the material and the physical which I
have been the necessary aids to your progress, and rise from j
engrossing interest in the worldly to a due appreciation of jj
Spiritual Truth. As the Master said to His friends, “ Be in ij
the world, but not of the world.” So shall those other words |t
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of some phenomena I)
which occurred in a private circle held at the house of Dr. Stanhope Speer, 13, Alexandra- | >
road, Finchley-road, N.W., through the mediumship of a gentleman who is known to Spirit- j)
ualists under the nom deplume of “ M.A. (Oxon).’’ A mass of evidence as to identity given iS
up to that time has since been greatly increased, and in all cases where verification is possible, j)
the statements made have been found to be literally accurate. This has been the case when : i
extracts from rare works have been laboriously authenticated in the library of the British IS
Museum. Evidence being so given of the independent action of spirit, and of the freedom \\
of the messages from colour by the medium’s thought*, it has been thought well to print I \
selections from a great mass of “ Spirit Teachings” which have been from time to time |(
written out automatically through his hand. The communications so given extend over | (
three years, and are principally concerned with the Religious Aspects of Spiritualism. They I (
are the work of many spirits, each of whom preserves his individuality, even to the pecu- I (
liarity of the writing used. The opinions are frequently the reverse of those held by the | (
medium, and are written (as far as can be ascertained), without aid from his mind. The |(
hand is automatically moved, even though the brain be occupied about other work. Great I (
care has been taken to provide conditions under which reliable messages can be l(
obtained.—[Ed.] I (
of your Sacred Records be fulfilled in you: u Awake thou that
sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee
light.”
You speak as if I roasted time on worldly things.
No; we have said that it must needs be that your earthly
work must be accomplished even at the risk of preventing
the education of your spirit. But we would have you to
devote your care to higher spiritual teaching, and to leave
the lower planes of objective evidence, which should no
longer be required. We would have you to progress. And
what we say to you we say to all.
After some further questions I suggested that development
might go on till one became quite unfit for work in the world;
so sensitive as fit only to be shut up in a glass case ; so absorbed
in spirit-land as to be useless for a workaday world,—that
indeed being the perfection of mediumship.
Doubtless it might be so with another type of spirit placed
in other circumstances and under other guardianship. We
shall see to that. We have made our choice with a view to it,
and have preferred to risk delay rather than to choose an
instrument who would be ill-regulated in mind, and a prey
to the fantasies of every vagrant spirit. We have trusted
that the fulness of time will lessen the weight of doubt and
difficulty, and that assured confidence being established, and
over-carefulness diminished, we may progress with speed and
safety. We cannot hasten that time; we would not if we
could. But we shall not cease to urge on all our friends the
necessity for higher aspirations ; nor to impress on them that
the physical foundation having been laid it is time to raise
the spiritual superstructure.
I repeated what I had before said, viz., that I would go where
I saw my way ; but that I thought much that passed current for
Spiritualism to be unworthy and even mischievous ; that medium-
ship was anything but an unmixed blessing, and, when exercised,
in mixed circles, a very dangerous thing. 1 added that faith
was no doubt necessary, but that I had about as much as I ever
should have. And quite certainly no amount of physical proof
beyond what we had received would add one iota to it.
You are mistaken in supposing your faith to be as strong
as it will be. When enlarged and purified it will be a vastly
different power from that cold, calculating, nerveless assent
which you now call Faith. The faith you now possess would
pale and fade away before real obstacles. It has no hold
upon your mind, is no factor in your life. In one way it
would be strengthened by opposition, but a severe spiritual
attack from the adversaries would well-nigh extinguish it.
Faith to be real must be outside the limits of caution, and
be fired by something more potent and effective than calcu¬
lating prudence, or logical deduction, or judicial impartiality.
It must be the fire that burns within, the mainspring that
regulates the life, the over-mastering force that will not be at
rest. This is that faith that Jesus spoke of when He said of
it that it was able to move mountains. This is that which
braves death and torture, braces up the feeble knees for long
and hard endurance, and conducts its possessor safe at last
through any perils that may assail him to the goal where
faith find its reward in fruition.
Of this you know nothing. Yours is not Faith, but only
logical assent; not spontaneous living faith, but a hard-
wrung intellectual assent weighted always with a mental
reservation. That which you have would move no mountain,
though it might suffice to select a safe way round it. It
would be powerless to animate and stir the spirit, though it
would be fitted to estimate evidence and weigh probabilities.
It would suffice for purposes of intellectual defence, but it is
not the faith that springs unceasing in the innermost soul,
and becomes, by virtue of its power, an over-mastering
leader, a mainspring of action, of high and holy purpose, at
which the world may sneer, and the wise may scoff, but which
is the central spring of all that is best and noblest in man’s
life.
Of this you know nothing. But, mark us, the time will
come when you will marvel how you could have ever dignified
this calculating caution by the name of faith, or have
dreamed that to its hesitating knock can ever be unbarred
the portals of Divine truth. You must await, and when the
time comes you will not set up that pale marble statue in
place of what should be a living body, instinct with convic-
148
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 31, 1876.
tion, and energised by the loftiest purpose. You have no i
faith. |
You have a may of putting things, which, however true, is j
slightly discomfiting. However, since u Faith is the gift of j
God,” I can't see how I am to blame. I am as I was made. |
Nay, friend, but you are what you have made yourself j
through a life which has been moulded both from within and j
from without. You are what external circumstances, and |
internal predilections, and spirit guidance have made you. j (
You misunderstand. We did but rebuke you for your j
vaunting that as faith which has no claim to the name. Be |
content. You are on the road to higher knowledge of a !
nobler truth. Withdraw (so far as may be) from the ex- i
ternal, and cultivate the interior and spiritual. Cease not ji
to pray for faith, that what you well call, “ the gift of God” j
may be poured into your spirit, and energise through it to |1
a higher knowledge. You retard us by your very anxiety. h
+ Imperator. I
[After this a number of communications extending over a |
great space were written out about the harmony of religions, j
The plan was to point out the one central truth that was in
each, and to show how all would find their harmony and j
completion in the religion of the future. These communi- j;
cations I omit, designing to embody them in a separate j
series at a future time. i
During the time when they were being given, on a certain j
evening [Aprils, 1874] I was about to put a question on jj
what had just been written, when the hand began to draw, IJ
or rather to move aimlessly over the paper, as is frequently jj
the case when a new spirit comes. Piece by piece a long j i
communication of a very personal nature was written out. \\
It must necessarily lose very much of its force from the brief j ]
abstract, which is all that I am able to print now. I was staying | <
at a house in the country, and the communicating spirit was j!
known to the lady of the house, and also to me; or rather, she j |
had known me as a boy twenty-nine years ago. She first gave j
her full name, and inquired if I remembered it. I did not.
She then, said she was a cousin of the lady of the house |
where I was staying. She died on May 15th ult. In answer |
to my questions, she said that she had been married, and j J
further, gave her maiden name. The maiden name I dimly !
remembered, and recalled the place where she used to live. |
This produced a record of her life, including time and place of j j
birth—a description of the very house, and the name of its ! j
present occupier—particulars of her married life, and date j<
and place of death, with her age. Then followed a very |
exact statement of a very trivial episode in my boyhood, when |
I had gone on a visit to her house. In the course of this, j
minute incidents were recalled and microscopic facts given j
which I knew nothing of, and which it is very hard to j
imagine any personating spirit getting up. I subsequently j
verified, from two sources, what she said, and found every jJ
particular literally exact. j j
I inquired, further, whether she had any object in coming j
to me. Yes; she wished a message given—aI lost much j
of my opportunity for progress through the gratification of j)
bodily appetite. This cast me back. My course of progress jj
is yet to come. I find my present life not very different j
from yours. I am nearly the same. I wish I could influence j
 , but I cannot get near her.” j
I asked for any other evidence, and she said no more j
could be given. Then, just as she was going away, “ IStay !
Ask about D. and the trap-door.” I had no idea what j
this might mean, and inquired if she were comfortable in j
her present state. “As happy as may be in this state.” j
I. asked how she found me out. She came, I was told, I
hovering near her friend, and discovered that she could jj
communicate. I asked if I could help her. The usual re- j
quest for prayer was made. |j
I subsequently ascertained that the trap-door incident j
about which I was told to ask was another of those minute jj
details of daily life of thirty years ago, which seem to me j
to furnish about the best evidence of identity. The absurd jj
incident alluded to could hardly have been known to any i
except the actors in it. The incident, I may say, occurred j
when I was about five years old.. The person to whom I . jj
was referred recalled the trap-door episode with difficulty, , jj
and only after a night’s thought. jj
PRANKS BY SPIRITS.
BY BARON VON DIRCKINCK-HOLMFELD.
At your request, expressed in the presence of Mr. Wil¬
liams, I give you a circumstantial account of some impromptu
seances at his rooms at 6, Lamb’s-conduit-street, London,
in June, 1871, in the daylight, from eleven to five o’clock.
The remarkable event of Mrs. Guppy having been carried by
spirit-force from a room in her house seance at the house of
Messrs. Williams and Herne having just been reported in the
papers, I felt eager to obtain some further confirmation of
the fact. Mr. Williams at some previous meeting had given
me his card, expecting mp to call on him ; and, as I had an
impression that he was trustworthy, sincere, and honest, I
resolved to ask him for information about the circumstances
of the singular case of involuntary transportation. I ac¬
cordingly went one Saturday morning from my abode in
Brunswick-square to Mr. Williams’s, and, as I contemplated
leaving London, I wanted to offer my services to Mr. Wil¬
liams in the event of meeting him in foreign parts.
Before relating the curious manifestations that took place
at the impromptu seances, I wish to state that, for my own
conviction, I do not need the manifestations, neither do I
want the belief to give motives for my acts in life; for I
have, since my childhood, been prepared to receive them as
wonderful facts, worth the greatest attention. Since the
manifestations in 1848 inaugurated a new era in Spiritualism,
or in the connection of the spiritual world with terrestrial
existence, I have considered them to be a beneficial, pro¬
vidential dispensation, which may be abused, like everything
else, but which put down, by indisputable facts, the doctrinal
errors of materialism and naturalism prevailing in our
time. It certainly, in my opinion, is far from a matter of
indifference whether good or bad spirits are manifesting
themselves ; but, as the main question is about immortality
and the reality of a spiritual world, I conceive the quality of
the spirits, whether promiscuous or angelic, or even de¬
moniacal, to be a secondary consideration. Believing, or
rather knowing, that the sphere of spirits which surrounds
man, and is in closest connection with him, is composed
generally of the less progressed beings—spirits of a fantas¬
tical and unreliable character—it is not to be wondered at
that the communications often bear the same stamp. The
main question being as to the evidence of the facts, the
messages, I think, are by no means to be valued according
to the assertions contained in them, but as facts rendered
important because of the circumstances under which they
were given. The greatest fact is, that now the spiritual world
is allowed more than before to communicate with man on
the bodily plane; this is in itself valuable, worthy of the
deepest gratitude.
When I called on Mr. Williams, an oldish maid-servant
showed me into his first-floor drawing-room. I placed my
hat on a piano on the right side, and Mr. Williams, entering
the room, took his seat near me on a sofa in the left corner
of the room at a window. After-a conversation, in which
Mr. Williams confirmed the report about Mrs. Guppy, we
discussed the chances of a visit from him to some part of
Germany; I intended to leave the room, but my hat had
disappeared, and as nobody had entered the room, and the
hat could not be found, it was evident that it had been re¬
moved through the closed doors. Mr. Williams declared
that the spirit Katie had probably taken it in order, per¬
haps, to necessitate a seance. We entered the darkened
seance-wom., separated from the drawing-room by folding
doors, Mr. Herne, meanwhile, having joined us. Spirits
immediately indicated their presence by sparks and lights
flashing through the air, and I heard Katie. She was a
spirit whom I recognised by her voice to be the same who,
five years before, in Hamburg, in one of my own rooms—
the Davenports and Mr. Fay being present—had said she
was the wife of Henry Morgan {alias John King), and who
several times afterwards, in Antwerp and St. Peters¬
burg, has spoken to me. She, with her childish, lisping
voice, whispered into Mr. Williams’s ear, f| I’D get you
a sovereign; I’ll get you a sovereign ; ” so I was warned
as to her intentions. When seated, I felt a clumsy
hand trying to introduce itself into the pocket where I had
my purse. Pulling it back, I said, “ Fie, Katie, what right
149
March 31, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST.
have yon to meddle with my pocket? Return my hat, so | |
that I can leave the house.” At the same moment an arm- It]1
chair was put over my head ; and, removing the untoward |)|
cover with expostulations, an old, broad-brimmed sailor’s 1|.
hat was put over my head and face. I suppose this hat was j |
brought by the spirit from the outside, because, when the j |
doors were first opened, I had inspected the room in the j|j
broad daylight; and, as there was no furniture in it except j|j
the table, with chairs surrounding it, I could not detect any |[j
hiding-place. After some entreaty from Mr. Williams, telling i j
Katie that the gentleman could not walk off without his j j
hat, she declared that the hat was upstairs in a locked j j
drawer, and Mr. Herne went upstairs to find it. Before he If
re-entered the room with the hat, the stick I held in my j j
hand was pulled out of it, and we had to re-commence the | |
stance to get the stick back; after repeated demands the j j
stick was replaced in my hand, just as if coming down from j j
the ceiling. I now took my leave, but entering the street, i |
and wanting to know what o’clock it was, my gold watch | j.
with chain had gone : the hook by which it had been fixed in j j
the bottom hole of my waistcoat having been purposely and j||
carefully opened, the hole not being torn. I was thus obliged j j
to go upstairs again to complain about Katie’s wanton j j
robbery, and we went again into the stkmc# room. But no | |
entreaties could persuade Katie to return the watch. She M
obstinately denied having taken it; and, when once more we I |
had entered into the drawing-room, to consider the case, we ! j
returned to the seance room, and Katie persevered in her | I
negation, saying, “Why? the gentleman may have left it jjj
in his bedroom.” As this suggestion coincided with a sug- jvj
gestion of the mediums, I could not but accede to their desire j j
to go home to inquire, though I was certain I had it with me I j
when I left my house. Mr. Williams observed that such an m
abstraction had never happened before, and he could scarcely jlr
believe that Katie by downright robbery would jeopardize jjj
her medium’s reputation. I of course did not find my \\\
watch at home, and the landlady, to whom I in the morning j j
had paid my bill, told me she had seen me leave the house jlj
with the watch. Returning to the place I asked Messrs, j j
Williams and Herne to settle the question themselves with I j
the controlling spirits, as I did not want further communi- jjj
cation with such malicious beings. They persuaded me to ju
conquer my repugnance, as they were sure that the once j j
established rapport made my presence a necessity, intimating j |
that if I would deposit valuable objects under a glass cover jjj
on the chimney-piece, they would guarantee they should not j( j
be touched. I did so with my purse and other objects, and jjj
we entered again into seance. Katie again declared she jjj
knew nothing about the watch ; my own spirits might have j(j
taken it. We continued to persuade her, saying that as we jjj
did not know how to challenge other spirits, she had better jjj
exert herself, as her friends certainly would suffer from i j
inquiries by the police. After half-an-hour’s entreaty the jjj
watch was forthcoming, dropping down on the table; from j !
whence it came she did not tell. I then took my purse, j j
&c., from the chimney-piece, and walking down stairs, I ! j
opened the portmonnaie, and found that all my money had j j
been abstracted. I knew the contents to a penny, because, jjj
before reaching the place an acquaintance of a friend of j i
mine in the square had asked me for change for half-a- j j
sovereign in order to pay a cabman, and as I only found jjj
nine shillings and sixpence in my purse, my friend obtained j j
change elsewhere. We were thus once more obliged to appeal j j
to Katie, who, after sundry expostulations, dropped one [jl
coin after another into my hand, but sternly refused to jj
part with a sovereign, repeating for half-an-hour that she j
had not taken it. At last Mr. Williams consulted Mr. jj
Herne, and they preferred to offer me the missing sovereign j
instead of continuing the seance, which had lasted nearly j
six hours, accepting, though, half-a-sovereign, their usual jj
fee. When I left the stance room, the spirits threw all sorts jj
of objects, books and papers after me; they continued to jj
do so in the dining-room, and they flung even a heavy |j
volume after me on the staircase, which, happily, with jj
a great crash went against the wall. Whence all these books j
came is incomprehensible to me, as I hadn’t seen books j
in the room. , / jj
These acts of malevolence and theft show that spirits, j
even when reputed to be of the better sort, can, without !
provocation or offence being given, be very annoying and
even dangerous, or alternate with bad spirits. As I had
promised Mr. Williams not to publish a report about facts
which then might jeopardise his mediumistic concern, I
am glad he now has released me from my promise, as I
think a fair warning is given by these facts to abstain
from promiscuous seances in which no guarantee can be
given against the influence of evil spirits. Mutual harmony
and community of rationale, and high spiritual principles,
afford the best conditions.*
Pinneberg, Holstein.
SCIENTIFIC SPIRIT MESSAGES.
Hitherto, as a general rule, spirit utterances on scientific subjects
through our best public and other mediums, have been altogether
wrong, displaying ignorance of the most elementary and commonplace
truths; but Mr. T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., of Newcastle, has found thore a
medium respecting whose powers the general statement just made does
not hold good. In a printed circular he says :—
I have, during the last few months, been engaged in the investiga¬
tion of a series of most extraordinary psychological phenomena. The
medium, through whom they have been produced, is a lady of what
may be termed the lower middle class. She has received a very ordi¬
nary education, and cannot in any sense, be considered professional, as
she does not advertise her remarkable medial powers. Her seances
are confined to a very limited number of persons, mostly personal
friends, and the whole of her seances are given without fee or reward
of any kind. The seances, with this medium, have been proceeding
with more or less regularity for about three years, but it is only during
the last eight months that I have had the privilege of attending them.
Prior to my attending the seances, the questions put and the answers
given were of a merely general and miscellaneous character, such ques¬
tions and answers, in fact, as might be asked and answered by any
ordinarily intelligent person.
In July, 1875, I attended my first seance with this medium, and, on
the first evening, I merely observed the phenomena that occurred, with¬
out taking any active part in the proceedings.' I learned, however,
during this sitting, that one of the agents, forces, powers, controls,
invisible beings, or whatever you will, that controlled the hand of, the
medium to write, had some knowledge of scientific subjects. I asked
him with what subjects the control was acquainted, and was told,
through writing produced by the hand of the medium, that he (the con¬
trol) had a knowledge of optics, light, heat, electricity, galvanism, and
acoustics. I at once sought permission to ask questions having rela¬
tion to these subjects, and the result has been that I have received
answers to questions in all those and other departments of science,
such as, I believe, could not be given, under the same conditions, by
any living woman.
At subsequent seances 1 learned that some of her controls vTere ac¬
quainted with music, with the organ, pianoforte, and harmonium, with
organic and inorganic chemistry, with minute human anatomy, and with
botany, and upon nearly all those subjects I have asked questions, which,
if asked of persons who are not specialists, might fairly be considered
as critical or test questions.
The lady through whose mediumship these communications have
been received has, as I have already said, received a very ordinary educa¬
tion. Her history is well known to a considerable number of persons ;
she is only twenty-six years of age. Between the ages of nine and
twelve, she attended an ordinary Wesleyan Day School for boys and
girls, and a school for girls for fifteen months, when between fifteen
and sixteen years of age. She never read a single work on any depart¬
ment of science, and is entirely without scientific knowledge.
Prior to the question being asked, she had never attended a scientific
lecture, and does not remember ever having heard a scientific conversa¬
tion or discussion.
All these statements can, I believe, be proved to the satisfaction of
any inquirer who will take the trouble to investigate them.
I may state that the seances were generally held in the light, that the
medium was seen to write the answers, that all the questions and
answers were written, and the original M.S. is preserved. The ques¬
tions were put without the slightest knowledge on the part of the
medium as to what they would be, and often of what the subject
would be, and the replies were written instantly after the questions had
been asked, and at a speed that would match the skill of the readiest
writer.
All the questions and answers are written in large M.S. books, the
questions being written by myself in phonography, and read aloud as
they were being written, in order that the medium, and through her
the controls, might understand the drift of them, and the replies were
there and then written automatically by the hand of the medium.
These investigations have been conducted in the presence of six or
seven well-known gentlemen, to any of whom 1 can refer any respect¬
able inquirer, who desires to authenticate the statements I have made.
* About that time such pranks (which haye since altogether ceased) were
common at Messrs. Herne and Williams’s seances, but, fortunately for the
mediums, were played only upon their acquaintances. Once, in broad daylight,
Mr. Harrison’s hat and umbrella Vanished while he was looking at them, and
nobody was visible within yards of them ; the spirits by detaining them kept
him prisoner on the premises for several hours, in spite of his protestations,
then said that the articles were in a wardrobe upstairs, which was found to be
the case.—[Ed.]
150
THE SElRlTTJALiST.
March 31, 1876.
Any of my readers who consider that those questions and answers are
simple and inane, are requested to ask them of a few of their more in¬
telligent friends, and ascertain what proportion of them they are able
to answer, and compare their answers with those given. They may
then multiply the questions in each department by one hundred, and
judge of the probability of the whole of them being answered approxi¬
mately, correctly by any imperfectly educated woman. The following
are selections from the questions I have asked and the answers I have
received in various departments of knowledge. They have been
selected chiefly because of their brevity, as some of the answers are
elaborated essays :—
Q.—Are the harmonics of an 8-feet open organ pipe the same as
those of a 4-feet closed pipe ?
A.—No.
Q.—Please to tell us the difference that exists between the harmonics
of these two kinds of pipes ?
A.—In open pipes the first node is formed at the centre of the pipe,
the first harmonic, or overtone, is thus formed half between the first
node and the mouthpiece, others following 1-4, 1-6, 1-8, 1-10. In
closed pipes the end forms the corresponding node to the first one in
the centre of the open pipe, the reflected node forms the first node at
the distance of 1-3 from the end, others following 1-5, 1-7, 1-9, &c.
Q.—In what proportion does the intensity of sounds diminish as the
distance increases ?
A.—In the square root precisely.
Q.—What are magnetic poles, and which is the equator of a
magnet?
A.—The points of issue are called the poles, and the equator is the
neutral point, or point between the poles where no magnetism is
observed.
Q.—When two bodies similarly electrified are placed near each
other and insulated, from what part of each body does the electricity
escape?
A.—From the points, if there be any; if not, and the bodies be
spherical, that part opposite the point where they are nearest together.
Q.—What is specific heat ?
A.—The amount of heat capable of being contained in a body.
Q.—What is latent heat.
A.—Latent, from the Latin i lying hid.”
Q.-—Has heat or light the greater refrangibility ?
A.—Heat is more refrangible than light.
Q.—What is meant by a body being diatherminous ?
A.—Transparent to heat as glass is to light.
Q.—What is meant by diffraction in light, and what by inter¬
ference ?
A.—Diffraction I do not know ; by interference I mean that darkness
which ensues when two light waves coalesce.
Q.—Having decomposed light by a prism, how would you proceed to
recompose it ? Mention two modes in which it may be done.
A.—By using another prism ; and another way is to catch the refracted
beam on a spherical reflector to form a synthesis.
Q.—To what part of the brain are the auditory nerves attached ?
A.—They are not attached directly to the brain at all, but indirectly
to the cerebellum. I am not very conversant with the brain, but I do
not think that any of the nerves are directly attached to it, but
to the medulla oblongata first, and thence to the cerebellum. Am I
right ?
Mr. Barkas adds :—
It is my intention to publish these psychological investigations
verbatim, to show, as I think may easily be shown, that they cannot
be accounted for by any known psychological, physiological, or
ph3'sical laws. I intend to affirm their reality and genuineness, and to
leave the question as to the personality and nature of the communicating
agents to be determined at some future period.
The principal controls who direct this medium profess to be an
American student of natural philosophy, trained in Germany, an
American student from Yale College, an English gentleman, a skilled
anatomist, a lady poetess, and a little Italian girl who says she was
burned at the great fire in Santiago, some years ago. Some of these
controls promised to assist me in preparing this work for the press, and
it is not improbable that prefaces and introductions to the work
may be written by one or more of them. It is also promised that some
of the answers to questions that may be considered obscure or doubtful
will be revised by the original writers; but whatever revisions take
place, the original questions and answers will, in each case, be given,
and the revisions, if any, will appear as foot notes.
Mr. Barkas concludes his circular by asking Spiritualists to aid him in
publishing the work, in which he has no pecuniary interest. The par¬
ticulars can be learnt on application to him at Newcastle.
At the fortnightly meeting of the members of the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, to be held at 38, Great Russell-street, on Monday
evening next, the subject will be—“ On some Phases of Physical
Mediumship.”
Mr. J. J. Morse in London.—Mr. Morse, trance medium, has re¬
turned to London, and he addressed, under spirit influence, a meeting
at Doughty Hall, Bedford How, on Sunday evening last. The lecture
was well received by an attentive audience. Mr. Morse will speak
there again on Sunday evening next at seven p.m., admission free. He
leaves London April 13th for Bishop Auckland for the Good Friday
festival of local Spiritualists. He will be at Newcastle April 16th, 17th ;
Liverpool, April 23rd ; Halifax, April 30th and* May 1st; Manchester,
May 14th. He is desirous of receiving calls from places in Lancashire.
All letters to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
CLAIRVOYANCE.
On Monday night, last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting of
the members of the British National Association of Spiritualists, held at
38, Great Russell-street, London, Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., presided.
OR. gully’s experiences in clairvoyance.
Dr. Gully opened the proceedings by saying that four meetings had
already been held in that room to consider the various branches of
mesmerism and its phenomena, and that that evening they had come to
the subject of clairvoyance, a psychological power which enabled a
person to see what was invisible to the natural eye; to see also, some¬
times into the past, and into the future. In clairvoyance the brain was
evidently in a very active state. There were various kinds of clairvoy¬
ance, some sensitives being so developed as to exhibit powers in one
direction, and in one direction only, whilst others could exercise them
in another; for instance, some clairvoyants could see the internal and
external organs of the body, so as to be able to discover internal seats
of disease, but could see scarcely anything else. Others could not do
this, but could see, perhaps, what was taking place in the next room,
or in distant places. Others, again, saw events which would occur in
the future, or had taken place in the past. He was once acquainted
with Colonel Fane, uncle to Lord Westmoreland; Colonel Fane had
been for some years in Canada, leading a somewhat dissipated life, until
his head became gorged with blood, and he was obliged to come home.
The voyage was so stormy that they were obliged to keep pumping the
ship nearly all the way across. In the midst of this tempestuous voyage
he was struck with'apoplexy; half his body was paralysed; and, strange
to say, although previously he had had a good knowledge of French
this illness made him forget every word of it, as well as many
of the past events of his life. Long after Colonel Fane’s return to
England he came under his (Dr. Gully’s) care at Malvern. At that
time he was acquainted with a young lady well known amongst Spirit¬
ualists, who afterwards became the wife of a physician, and who pos¬
sessed clairvoyant powers. Colonel Fane laughed at the idea of there
being any truth in clairvoyance, but he (Dr. Gully), by way of experi¬
ment, brought her there, and entranced her mesmerically in another room,
so that she did not know whom she was going to meet. After she was
entranced she walked in and looked at Colonel Fane, who, sitting in his
chair, showed no outward sign of paralysis. She took his hand, and,
in three or four minutes, said, “ You have lost half your body; I see half
your nerves in a shrivelled state.” She told him that the disease had
attacked him between nine and ten years previously, and it was nine
years and seven months exactly. After the lapse of about ten minutes,
she told him that he was at sea at the time of the attack, in a storm.;
it was very wet, and two great dogs were running about the deck. At
this point he grew red in the face, and said, “ That’s enough, Gully! ”
and the clairvoyant went away. Colonel Fane then stated that
among the things he had entirely forgotten were those two dogs, which
he had actually brought home with him; until she mentioned them
they had never entered his mind. One day he (Dr. Gully) went with
Lady Shelley to Mrs. Wagstaffe, a clairvoyant, and Lady Shelley had
upon her finger an antique ring, which in former years had always been
worn by Shelley the poet, and had been taken off the finger of his
drowned body. After a time the clairvoyant began to describe the
streets of Rome and sundry temples there, also the people walk¬
ing about the streets; the influences or aura about the ring had
taken her back to ancient Rome. Lady Shelley asked her not to go so
far back, but to tell her about occurrences which took place forty-five
years since. After a long pause she said that the ring was being worn
by a tall man, and she described Shelley to the life, especially his
mental character, saying that he was sad and sorrowful, full of love for
his race, and pity for their afflictions; he was a great poet. Clairvoy¬
ance could be employed medically. Once an emaciated youth came
under his care, and he could not find out what was the matter with him,
but he suspected something organically wrong; he had two great ulcers
on his breast. Miss Andrews, a clairvoyant, came into the room, and
the instant she set eyes upon him she said that she saw two great
tumours on the spine, like mushrooms in'shape, and black-looking. He
(Dr. Gully) immediately knew that it was a case of fungus cancer, and
that the patient was a dead man. He had not handled him roughly
enough before to discover this, but when he afterwards pressed his
fingers upon the place indicated, he felt the tumours quite plainly. It
was never known during the last illness of the late Sir Robert Peel
what was the matter with him, the cause being only discovered after his
death, because he was extremely sensitive to pain, and howled whenever
the doctors attempted to examine him. Dr. Tomlinson, Bishop of Gib¬
raltar, was his private chaplain during his last illness, and had told
him (Dr. Gully) that he could vouch that the doctors did nothing at all
for him, but give him champagne and eggs. If a good clairvoyant had
been brought into the room, she would have been able to have told him
of his broken ribs, and his life might have been saved. All this oc¬
curred at the time that Sir Benjamin Brodie was publicly fulminating
against clairvoyance, yet clairvoyance was a great truth. Everybody
knew how Swedenborg saw his house on fire when at a distance of three
hundred miles. Whatever might be the cause of clairvoyance, it could
scarcely be said to be cerebration, that is to say, that the brain of a man
could extend its visual power into the past and the future, as well as into
foreign countries. (Applause.)
Mr. George King: Have you known clairvoyance to be prospective ?
Dr. Gully replied that he had. When he was a boy of fourteen his
father wanted to send him to school at Paris, and at that time he never
knew what a French cq/'e was like. One night, while lying in bed wide
awake, he saw a room with round and square marbled topped tables.
He saw a stout lady behind a table with sugar upon it, and near her
March 31, 1876,
THE SPlUITUALlSl?.
151
was a shelf, upon which were busts of musical composers, amongst
which was Grliick. He was wide awake at the time; in fact, he got out
of bed to make sure that he was awake. Three weeks later he went to
Paris, bearing a letter of introduction to a man who had lived there ever
since the Reign of Terror, and who was in the habit of taking his meals
at a certain cafe. He (Dr. Gully) went to the cafe, and the whole scene
was there; there were the tables, and the stout lady, and the sugar;
and the first thing he cast his eyes upon was the bust of Gliick. Either,
then, his vision was prophetic, or he had actually seen that cafe clair-
voyantly as it was on the night when he lay in bed.
Mr. George King asked whether Dr. Gully received the letter of
introduction before he had the vision, because that letter might have
been the means of putting him en rapport with the mind of the gentle¬
man in Paris.
Dr. Gully replied that he could hardly remember. On second
thoughts he fancied that he received the letter before he had the vision.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald asked how did he see the vision. Did the wall of
the room seem to open ?
Dr. Gully replied that he seemed to be in the cafe itself, and the whole
scene was clear to him, whether his eyes were open or shut, for he tried
that experiment. Boys of fourteen were often clairvoyant. He had
been a great sleep-walker; he had often walked about the house of a
night, and sometimes was found leaning out of window. At the present
time he had a little grandson who was in the habit of doing the same.
He had a big head, and boys with big heads he had noticed to be more
subject than others to such disturbances.
MR. CROMWELL VARLET’S EXPERIENCES IN CLAIRVOTANCE —THE FUTURE
FORESEEN.
Mr. Cromwell Varley, F.R.S., said that he was at a loss to under¬
stand how clairvoyance could make known future events except by
inference in some way from passing events. Before he was married he
woke up one dark night and the room appeared light to him; he had
only been partially roused, and to his surprise he discovered that he
was married, and that his wife and child were by his side. The
child began to cry, and his wife attended to the child without awaking;
a dog then gave three loud barks. Now at that time he had
no dog. He jumped out of bed and found himself to be awake.
This was long before he knew the lady who afterwards became
his wife. A long time afterwards, when his little boy was
three months old, and they were in their new house at Hamp¬
stead, he woke one night and thought to himself that he had been in
that bedroom before; then he remembered that it was the room he had
seen long ago in his dream. The child began to cry and the mother to
attend to it without waking, upon which he, being very much startled,
exclaimed : “ But in the dream there was a dog ! ” Then some dog in
the neighbourhood barked three times. He jumped out of bed and
struck a light. He was then very wide awake indeed, and thoroughly
startled. At that time he was a dense materialist, but after the incident
could not help thinking that there was something beyond materialism
in what had happened. Shortly after that he became acquainted with
the clairvoyance of his wife. Once he had an event foretold to him in
a way which he thought might be due to thought-reading. His wife told
him one day in the clairvoyant state, that thieves would attempt to
break into the house on the next night. He asked whether he should
send for the police. She replied “No,” he had better be prepared for
them. He did not think much of the prophecy, and listened a portion
of the following night, but did not hear anything. In the morning,
however, it was discovered that two panes had been cut out of one of
the windows with a diamond, to get at the latch, but that something had
disturbed the thieves so that they did not get in. The fellows, perhaps,
had been maturing their plans a day or two in advance, and her mind
had by some means been placed en rapport with their thoughts. She
sometimes suffered severe pains in the head, which came on periodically,
and which he used to cure by mesmerism. One day, after he had
mesmerised her, he was thinking how the cure could be made per¬
manent, and she spoke in answer to his thoughts. He then held a
conversation with her for three quarters of an hour, he thinking with¬
out uttering a word, and she answering by word of mouth. She told
him to bring on the next attacks at the wrong period of time, because
by destroying the periodicity she would be cured. This proved on trial
to be the case.
Dr. Gully remarked that it was a well established medical fact that
certain fits could be cured by breaking their periodicity.
Mr. Yarley continued that, when in the clairvoyant state, Mrs. Yarley
had the greatest objection to being aroused. If he moved much she
would seize his arms, especially when he made cross passes to wake
her; if he made those cross passes through the wall while she was in
another room, she would come out and try to stop him. He thought that
clairvoyant phenomena were various, and that rules which applied to
one case might not apply to another. There was one kind of clairvoy-
aace in which the patient remembered everything upon returning to
the normal state, and there was another where the patient would remain
awake, yet see things clairvoyantly. He thought the latter to be the
higher condition of the two. He had sometimes been clairvoyant him¬
self, and his spirit appeared to be trying to separate itself from his body.
One night he arrived late at Havre Grace, the second town of import¬
ance in Newfoundland, but only a village; when he arrived there a
public supper had been got up to welcome him, at which speeches were
made; he consequently went to bed late and tired, afraid moreover that
he should not wake up in time to meet the steamer next morning, which
it was important he should do, as he was there on business connected
with the repairing of the Atlantic cable. He accordingly, just before going
to sleep, sat up in bed and determined that he would wake at seven
o’clock, for he had found that course usually produced the desired re¬
sult. At seven o’clock next morning he saw his own body lying in bed.
He tried to wake it, but without success; he found that he could make
his body think and dream, so he made it imagine all kinds of noises and
| disagreeable things, but it would not wake. Then he saw two men in a
yard by the side of the hotel, and a pile of timber there. He knew by
| their actions that they were going to throw down a plank, so he took
| advantage of this to make bus body believe that a bomb had fallen,
which might kill him, and was fizzing near him. The moment the man
threw down the plank, he made the body believe that the bomb had
burst; then he woke with the full recollection of all that had taken
place, and which made him burst out laughing. He threw open the
window, there was the timber, the two men, and the plank on the
ground. It should be remembered that he had gone to that hotel after
dark the night before, and had not seen the timber in the yard before
he went to bed. He had met altogether with three cases of that de¬
ll scription. The second one was not very clear, so he would not men-
,i tion it, but the fourth was decisive. At a time when he was unwell he
• used chloroform to send him to sleep: he soaked a sponge with it, hold-
11 ing the sponge in his hand, and breathing the vapour for a time. When
11 he had had enough the arm would drop, and cut off the supply of chlo-
[i reform, thus acting like a valve. One night the sponge, instead of fall-
1 ing properly, settled upon his mouth. Mrs. Varley was sleeping with
| one of his children in the room overhead; he saw her there, and he saw
[i his body in bed; he tried to move his arm from his mouth, but could
| not. He then went upstairs, and by mesmeric influence impressed her
| that he had taken chloroform; she accordingly rose, came down stairs,
| and removed the sponge. His spirit informed her that he would forget
! all about this in the morning, but that gradually, in the course of the
I day, he would remember the whole occurrence. His wife told bun the
whole incident at breakfast, but he knew nothing about it. He came to
| London, and during the business of the day, bit by bit, the recollection
j of what his spirit had seen came back to him, and in the evening he
jj remembered the whole thing. On several occasions, when Mrs. Varley
(I had been thrown into the clairvoyant state, she would say that her own
: spirit, and not that of some other person, was speaking through her
| lips; she would also sometimes say that she was going away, to permit
jj some other spirit to come and speak through her own organism,
j Dr. Gully remarked that what Mr. Varley had said was in favour
i of the idea that the spirit left the body when the latter became clair-
j voyant.
1 Mr. Varley continued that often when he woke in the morning he
i had a vague recollection of having been somewhere in the night, and of
ji having seen a great deal, the details of which he could not bring back
jj with him into his body.
j Dr. Gully said that once Mrs. Honywood was at Osborne House,
jj Malvern, for the benefit of her health, and asked him if he could get a
jj clairvoyant who could give information about a niece of hers: he replied
j| that he would try. He sent the name and age of Mrs. Honywood to
jj Mrs. Wagstaffe, at Leighton Buzzard, and informed her that informa-
j j tion was required. The reply by return of post was that the person he
jj mentioned was not where he said she was. She (the clairvoyant) had
jj been to Osborne House, and the lady was not there. This was true,
for Mrs. Honywood had left. She gave her address in London, and
the clairvoyant gave a full account of the young lady, and the state of
her illness.
Mr. Varley then narrated how on board the Great Eastern during
one of the Atlantic cable expeditions, he was much ridiculed because of
1 his belief in Spiritualism, and stated that one day while some of those
,j in the saloon were laughing at him, Captain Halpin said that he he¬
ll lieved such things to be true, for he had had some strange experiences
jj himself, which, however, Mr. Varley did not wish published without
j Captain Halpin’s permission.
j Mr. George King said that in the cases of clairvoyance which had
jj occurred to Mr. Varley himself, it looked as if he had two spirits—
j one outside the body and thinking, whilst the other was inside the
jj body and thinking, for he had said that he had made his body dream,
jj Mr. Varley remarked that it was an irrational spirit in the body,
jj with the intelligent part of him outside.
jj Mr. Fitz-Gerald said that animals were in the habit of dreaming,
jj In the case mentioned by Mr. Varley it might not have been the abso-
jj lute spirit in the body.
j Mr. Varley said that if at any time he took too little food, the
j faculty of clairvoyance rapidly developed. He thought that if they took
jj good mediums, and put them upon high ground, so that they should be
I away from miasma, and that if they would then accustom themselves to
j fasting, clairvoyance of a high kind would probably be developed,
jj Dr. Gully observed that the old oracles were starved nearly
jj to the point of death, and that they were usually placed on elevated
j spots.
CLAIRVOYANCE AND THOUGHT-READING,
j Mr. Harrison remarked that in the mountainous districts of Wales
j and Scotland, clairvoyance and second sight seemed to be more common
ji than in towns and in low-lying districts. He then narrated how he
jj once took a clairvoyant to see a lady, about whom she had no informa-
ji tion, and upon whom she had never set eyes before. The sensitive
jj described most accurately all that was the matter with her, the ulcerated
jj sore throat, and so on. She also indicated the medicine that ought to
j j be taken. There was not a single error, and the details given were too
j j exact to be guess work. In considering the matter afterwards it became
j j clear that nothing whatever had been told to the lady which was not in
jj her own mind; just so far as the physician, Dr. Morell Mackenzie, had
jj informed her the nature of the remedies he prescribed, did the clair-
ji voyant name them—so far and no further. This appeared to be a case
jj of thought-reading. He narrated another instance in which spirits,
ji through a clairvoyant, prophesied to him what was to take place in
ji the future, and he took down their prophecy in shorthand, but could
ji not make head or tail of the prediction. Some weeks afterwards it
I flashed upon his mind that about a year or more before he had expected
j that such events would occur, and on turning to his shorthand notes, he
found that persons and places and furniture had been accurately de-
152 THE SPIRITUALIST. March 31, 1876.
scribed. Thus something past and gone, not in his own mind at the i <
time, and which could not possibly take place in the future, had been j <
given to him as a revelation from the spirit world, with the assurance | j
that it would take place in the future. His long-forgotten thoughts had i (
been spoken to him through the organism of another person. ] j
Mr. Yarley said that it was difficult to tell whether one was awake or i)
not when in the clairvoyant state, so of late he had got into the habit of j (
doing something when he became clairvoyant, to assure himself upon | s
this point. For instance, he would get out of bed and take a glass of !)
water, or something of that sort. Generally his dreams were nonsense, j <
but in 1864, when he had been puzzling himself for a long time over a i S
mathematical problem, he went to bed one night and worked it out in i >
his dreams. When he woke next morning he saw the whole thing, and 1 (
afterwards put it practically in operation. | S
Dr. Carter Blake, lecturer on anatomy at Westminster Hospital, j)
said that some few nights ago fifty people were undergoing a scholastic j (
examination. A gentleman who had second sight was competing with a i s
candidate with whom he was not on good terms, and he predicted that j)
that candidate would find himself in a certain mathematical position, j (
There were forty-three chances to one against his being in that position j \
and carrying off the prize, so few believed the statement when it was j)
made, but a fortnight later the prediction proved to be true. He had j <
given the names of those concerned to the secretary to the Association, i)
Mr. George King remarked that Goethe had experiences of that kind, j)
M. GUSTAVE DE VEH’S EXPERIENCES IN CLAIRVOYANCE. I )
Mrs. Fitz-Gerald said: Having been requested to say a few words on i)
the subject of this evening’s meeting, namely, clairvoyance, I was pre- j)
paring to look through memoranda and journals containing remarkable | \
instances which had occurred under my own observation, in what is now |)
designated the “ olden time," and consequently might be deemed to have ;)
lost somewhat of their interest. But those who are only searching for ! (
what is new, must not forget that it was those pioneers of the olden ! j
time—earnest men and women—who at the onset bore the heat and i /
burden of the day; bore the sneers, the ridicule, and the insults; and at i j
the risk of position, fortune, and the loss of friends, have hewn the j)
pathway for the advance of that movement, which has now culminated !)
in a large and influential body, not afraid, and in the face of the whole I s
world, of calling itself the “ British National Association of Spiritual- j;
ists." Fortunately, as I was commencing my task, I received a visit j (.
from M. Gustave de Yeh, just arrived from Paris, who proceeded to |)
give me so interesting an account of what had lately taken place in j j
Connection with himself, that in order that his recital should lose none : (
of its truth and freshness, I transcribed it at once, almost as it fell from : \
the lips of my old and valued friend. M. de Veh told me he was |)
invited by the mesmerist, M. Moussard, of Paris, to assist at a clair- j (
voyant seance : he accordingly went. After the clairvoyant had answered |)
numerous questions put to her by different persons present, M. de Yeh i)
begged M. Moussard to ask his clairvoyant whether her guide could call ! j
a spirit that M. de Veh wished very much to question, but whose name |)
he refused to give. After a minute’s pause, the clairvoyant said that I)
the spirit whose presence Mons. de Veh had wished for was there. | j
Now, to explain the wish of M. de Veh, it is necessary to bear in mind j
the well-known occurrence which took place in connection with the i)
medium Firman, at the house of Dr. and Madame Huguet in Paris, | (
and the catastrophe which followed. All at once the clairvoyant uttered j
a shriek, and was trembling in every limb, crying out, “ Le voild ! Le i)
voild ! Mon Dieu) comme il est laid ! Noir> cheveux crepm, bossu petit, \ l
et sautillant dans la chambre. II a quelque chose de brillant sur la teteP \ j
Roughly translated this is—“ There! There he is ! Heavens, how ugly i
he is ! Black, with woolly hair, humpbacked, diminutive, and capering ! j
about the room. There is something shining (or brilliant) on his head.” !)
M. de Veh recognised instantly by this description the very spirit he i /
was desirous of questioning. The answers the spirit gave to him were i)
completely satisfactory to M. de Veh, and cleared up all his doubts con- :)
cerning the incident before mentioned, viz., the affair at Dr. and Madame ; (
Huguet’s. Now, this seance took place on a Friday, be it remarked. | (
At a seance on the succeeding Sunday, at M. de Veh’s, the latter asked 15
the little Indian, Kibosh (who was the spirit described by the clairvoyant 11
on the previous Friday) whether he recollected where they had last j {
met ? Kibosh hesitated for a moment; then, all at once—as if the j)
recollection had suddenly flashed upon him—he cried out, with a gleeful I (
shout, f Oh! It was where I frightened the clairvoyant out of her wits! " ; j
This gave great satisfaction to all present, as one of the best tests of !)
identity, and being at the same time a proof of the reality of the clair- | j
voyant’s vision. This does not admit of the hypothesis of mind-reading. | \
It is interesting to note that Kibosh now speaks fluently in four different | j
languages—Spanish, English, French, and German. He once said at |
a stance, when talking about M. de Veh’s kindness to' him, with a ])
plaintive voice, “ Oh! I never knew affection till I came into the spirit |)
world!” He was deformed, hunchbacked, very small, and his parents, i l
in Indian fashion, threw him at the age of fifteen into the river. His |
recollections of earth-life relate chiefly to the bloodshed and slaughter I)
committed by his tribe.
A SYMBOLICAL VISION OP THE PATH TO HEAVEN. ! )
Mr. George King remarked that an elderly gentleman, an intimate i)
friend of his own, named Mr. D , was studying at Edinburgh Uni- |)
versity more than fifty years ago. His father was a Presbyterian | (
minister in the town of M , in Forfarshire, and had in his congre- j j
gation an aged couple of humble station. The old man was ailing, but !)
with no definite disease, only sinking under the weight of years. One i (
day he fell into a gentle sleep, and when he awoke his wife said to him, |)
“ You are better now, aren’t you, John ? ” to which he replied, “ I have !)
been asleep, and I have had a dream. I thought I was walking on the ! (
sea-shore with young Mr. D from Edinburgh. The sea was calm, i \
and the sun was shining brightly, and right down from the sun to my j)
feet there was a path of golden light. As we sauntered on the beach ;
we talked of the goodness of God, and of all His love for us, when
I asked Mr. D to pray, and we knelt down together. As he prayed
I felt that I had to walk across the quiet sea, up that path of light to
the sun; and I rose, and as I was saying farewell, I awoke. And now,
wife, I know the meaning of the dream. That smooth and sunlit sea is
eternity, and I must cross it. I am to die, and young Mr. D is
coming to be with me at the last. He will pray with me, and as he
prays I shall pass away.” “Hout, John! ” said his wife, “Don’t let
these foolish notions enter your head. You are better now, and as
spring comes on you will be strong again. Besides, you know, young
Mr. D—— is in Edinburgh, and cannot be back here for many a day.”
The next day Mr. D  arrived very unexpectedly from Edinburgh,
and one of the first things he did was to call on the old couple, he
could not tell why. After a short chat, the old man asked Mr. D 
to pray, and in the middle of the prayer he peacefully breathed his last.
He (Mr. King) thought that some of the early mediums connected with
the Spiritual movement began their psychological experiences by being
mesmerised by persons in the flesh. It was so, for instance, with
Andrew Jackson Davis. Perhaps by leaving off that practice Spirit¬
ualists had lost, to a certain extent, some power in controlling the
phenomena of Spiritualism. If a circle were to be formed for the
purpose of investigating the connection between mesmerism and Spirit¬
ualism, it would probably give good results.
Mr. Varley quite agreed with what Mr. King had said. In America
the spirits told him to mesmerise a medium, upon which her husband
said that she never could be mesmerised by anybody. The medium
said the same, but remarked that he had better try. He made an
attempt, succeeded in mesmerising her, and partly obtained the message
he wanted. After she had spoken with him for some time she gave a
start; then the spirits said that they had taken her, and from that
moment he had no further control. Another medium in America
informed him about some law business in England, of which he
received no news by the mail until some days afterwards.
Mr. Harrison remarked that nearly all the more powerful mediums
were easily mesmerised, although as a rule they boasted that nobody
could mesmerise them at all. Once while a medium was saying that
nobody could mesmerise him, a gentleman present made a few passes
over him, and he fell down as if shot. He was able to talk, but not to
move his body, and under these conditions employed his vocal powers
in asserting that nobody could ever mesmerise him.
Mr. Varley thought that spirits were working down to mortals, whilst
men were working up to them. If a medium went suddenly into the
spirit-world he found himself surrounded by conditions which could not
be described in language. Perhaps under the influence of mesmerism,
instead of taking this leap suddenly, they might do it gradually, and so
more knowledge of the connecting link between the two worlds might be
obtained.
Dr. Gully said that he had seen clairvoyants who had been developed
by mesmerism, but under those conditions sensitives never seemed to
see spirits; they only saw things on the plane of the earth. Mesmerism
did not develops what Spiritualists call mediumship.
Mr, Varley added that not one man in a thousand possessed the inves¬
tigating facility. The majority of human beings were something like
monkeys, they were imitators. A subject like clairvoyance ought to
fall into right hands. A society like that should bring together sensi¬
tives on the one hand, and men like Crookes and Wallace on the other,
with the necessary faculty for investigating.
Dr. Gully remarked that the chief use of Spiritualism was to learn
what the spirits could tell about the things of the soul and about the
future life. Men wanted to know the nature of existence there, and the
relationship of that world to their own. This information was,
perhaps, of more immediate necessity than mesmeric experiments.
Mr. King was of opinion that their chief duty was to find out the
connection between this world and the next. Soon they would all be
there, and have opportunities of knowing what it was like, but they
might not perhaps then have so good a chance of finding out what was
the connecting link between the two.
Mr. Harrison remarked that until they were able to get rid of errors
due to the method of communication, and knew to what extent mes¬
sages were unconsciously coloured and warped by the thoughts and
mental nature of the mediums, they could not learn much about the next
life, so that experiments in mesmerism formed the only way of getting
at the knowledge which Dr. Gully chiefly desired.
Dr. Gully narrated how Miss Andrews, a lady who had passed away
from this life, but who had once lived at Kensington, had some property
stolen. The butler was suspected. A clairvoyant told her that she saw
it buried at the bottom of the garden, and there sure enough it was
found. Some years ago he employed clairvoyance in the inspection of
disease. His daughter was ill with the typhus fever, and a clairvoyant
told him one day that the bottom of the left lung was getting red; at
that time his daughter had not coughed. The statement alarmed him
very much. The clairvoyant told him that it grew redder, and in time
his daughter began to cough, so he telegraphed to Dr. Chapman, and
by the stethescope he found out that what the clairvoyant had told him
was true. The disease might have been cured had he known a few
hours earlier that the lung was affected. There were plenty of obscure
complaints of which doctors could make nothing, but upon which light
could be thrown in this way, and he thought that the slight notice which
professional men took of mesmerism was perfectly disgraceful.
Mr. Varley stated that Mrs. Varley in the clairvoyant state usually
saw an aura around everybody, and she knew beforehand when her
children would be ill, for she would see dark spots in the aura; thus
she saw the disease before it reached the body.
AN ADVENTURE ON THE OHIO RIVER.
Mr. Loewenthal said that he once studied mesmerism extensively in
America, and had a clairvoyant—an ignorant, self-willed boy—who
Maech 31, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
153
told him and some friends where some treasure had been buried by
pirates, alongside the Ohio river. The boy described the fence and the
trees, the landing-place, and so on. They resolved to see if the lad’s
description was true, for they had reason to know that the boy—who
came from another State—had never been there. They went down the
river on board the steamer, and as the boat, of course, would not stop
for them, they had to go three or four miles below the place to Cairo,
where they landed. There they hired a rowing boat and implements for
digging, and went up the river to the place, taking the boy with them.
They tied the boat to a! fence, and mesmerised the boy, in order that
they might be led on by his clairvoyance. As they sat down on the
stump of a tree outside the fence to mesmerise him, two children passed
by them. The boy said that they had landed at the right spot, and that
the place for digging was so many feet from where they were sitting, but
on the other side of the fence, so they resolved to go and dig. The boy,
always rude and rough, said, “ You can go and dig if you like, but you
had better not.” That was the character of the youth. He refused to
give them further information, so he had to be coaxed, and a promise
was made to him of a future present. The boy then said, “ Do you not
see those three men in their shirt-sleeves in the corn-field ? They have
revolvers, and directly you get over the fence you will be potted.”
(Laughter.) They saw no men, the corn being high, so they got into
the boat and pulled into the middle of the river, at last reaching a place
where they saw the three men with rifles in the field. The whole of
the district was a notorious place, a perfect nest of thieves, situated
between three States; the locality was so disturbed that the Govern¬
ment had to keep a large number of soldiers there. They afterwards
concluded that the children had given warning of their landing, and had
brought out the three men in search of them: possibly if they had got
over the fence they would have been “ potted ” as the boy prophesied.
Mr. Yarley remarked that he knew a whole family who, more or less,
possessed the power of seeing before they turned a corner, that some
particular friend, on certain occasions, was approaching along the other
street.
Mr. Loewenthal thought that the spirits had more to do with many
of the phenomena spoken of that evening than some of the speakers
seemed to suppose.
The proceedings then closed.
(ttomaponuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to time of this journal and its readers.]
THE LAST COUNCIL MEETING OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Sm,—In the report which appeared in your last issue of the proceed¬
ings of our Council, a singular error appears, which I will beg you
kindly to allow me to correct. The report says that the votes on Mr.
FitzGerald’s amendment were nine for and seven against. The num¬
bers in reality were just the reverse, being nine against and seven for ;
the report of the Offices Committee being subsequently carried by ten
votes to six. E. Kislingbury, Secretary.
[The report was an official one, sent us by order of the Council, and the
error was in the original document, which we have returned to the Sec¬
retary.—Ed.]
HAFED, PRINCE OF PERSIA.
Sir,—It appears that your editorial remarks on Hafed have aroused
the ire of the publisher of that book, and I think without fair reason.
It may be very true that all who are acquainted with Mr. Duguid and
the gentlemen composing his circle, entertain no doubt of their integrity,
but when such a glaring piece of plagiarism has been perpetrated in
connection with that book, Mr. Nisbet should be prepared to receive
some severe strictures thereon. Let it be admitted that the integrity of
the circle is unimpeached, yet that in no way lessens the sense of wrong,
but rather aggravates it, inasmuch as we are deceived by those whom we
consider the higher source, and fount of inspiration. We may console
ourselves by knowing that to err is human, but we cannot take comfort
from knowing those who come to us in the garb of “ ministers of grace ”
flaunt such glaring dishonesty in our face. It is an acknowledged
axiom, that those who deceive us on one point will deceive us on many,
therefore if the reputed spirits of Ruysdael and Jan Steia will con¬
descend to such petty deception, can any one have confidence that there
is even a shade of truth in the events they profess to narrate. What
are we to think when artists of so very high an order cannot give
us truthful designs kindred to their tale ? What are we to
think of those who are exponents of a high moral theme, and yet
smirch their professions with such mean and paltry guile ? Can it be
supposed that as spirits of light they were so deficient of prevision as
not to know the certainty of exposure, the chagrin it must cause the
medium, and its tendency to destroy every tittle of confidence in the whole
affair ? In the same correspondence, Mr. Simpson says that “ Stein
declares that he takes his ideas from the brains of those in the circle,
and harmlessly reproduces them.” But this process I most emphatically
deny as being harmless; it is the very contrary, because while we are
made to believe in getting intelligence of a supra-human nature, we are
in reality but getting a stale rechauffe, compounded from the vagaries
of human brains, and placed before us as truthful revealings of spirit
life. Who will not say that this is but making our .better part of nature
“ rank and peasant slaves ” to occult and misguiding influences. During
the past fifteen years I have devoted much time and trouble in striving
to eliminate the truths of Spiritualism, and in London I found a vast
field of imposture proved beyond a doubt; it is sadly melancholy that
this imposture and want of truthfulness is daily increasing amid spiritual
development, and has the tendency of turning all our higher aspirations
I after truth into nothing but “ Dead Sea fruit,” looking a sound fruitage
I but all rottenness within. In conclusion, I have to remark that the
I system recently adopted of subscribing to spiritual literature while in
embryo, will receive a necessary and salutary check, in consequence of
| recent productions given to the public, and people will wisely wait
(j until books undergo the crucial test of competent literary criticism.
J. B. W.
| March 15th, 1876.
V| AN AMERICAN VIEW OF THE SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
(j Sir,—Nearly twenty years have elapsed since our dull materialistic
jj ears caught the first echo of spiritual sound in proof of a post mortem
)j life. In the interim new phases of the phenomena have sprung into
(j expression, with activities fertile in objective realities. Materialisation,
)! whatever its psychical methods may be, is the crowning glory of
)j modern Spiritualism, the greatest and last metathesis of biological
(! science.
{\ In controversial philosophy it may be urged that this manifestation is
)| too material for spirit, whatever radical and highly attenuated changes
11 may occur in the infinitesimal evolutions of matter, and that it proves
jj too much, inasmuch as it resolves spirit into matter, and matter back
jji again into spirit. But, as Des Cartes observes, “ matter is the necessary
|(j concomitant of spirit,” and Faraday insisted that we could form no con-
jjj ception of matter other than by the forces that surround it. Many
[|i sound thinkers reason in this way, that the objective world is merely a
| j show, a shadow, or a physical accompaniment of mind, whose very ex-
m istence depends entirely on the constant action and interaction between
i) j the external world and internal life. Materiahsation furnishes evidence
Kj in support of this proposition, because that which once lived in the
j j physical form, and propelled that form as it walked the earth, returns
j) i and groups certain molecular physical unities into objective forms, the
iji crystallisation of which is sensible to the sight, hearing, and touch of
ij i mortals, and this is true of nearly every phase of phenomenal Spirit-
i) j ualism. By the law of atomic attractions in organisms, molecular
Kj changes must obey the law of morphological contour. The fluidic body
jji of the spirit, possessing, as it does, all the vital centres of motion, can
j) j take on the emanations from the circle through the medium; each
jjj correspondential centre of motion takes on, I think, and weaves its
jjj tissue through the same law of electro-capillary attraction that governs
j) j the inter-cellular growth of corporeal tissue. In fine, it is but another
jj j expression of uterine growth. A spirit chemist stands as the director of
jjj the formative process, whereby a spirit becomes temporarily incarnated
jjj in the shifting envelope of differential aggregations, correlated from the
jjj invisible unities of the emanations from the medium and circle, with
jj j new motions set up in the atoms corresponding to the dynamic points of
jjj spirit.
jjj Dr. Priestley, the discoverer of oxygen, and an eminent physicist,
jjj controls a medium of this city, an Englishman, Dr. E. J. Witheford.
jjj He declares that the present manifestations are but the first faint
jjj attempts of an intelligent power that will in a few years carry all before
jjj it. Dr. Witheford is an educated surgeon, is not fanatical, and uses
jji his mediumship for the furtherance of scientific investigation,
jjj He willingly submits to being placed under the most
jjj severe test conditions, and affords every facility to any
jjj reasonable person for the fullest investigation of the phenomena occur-
i j ring in his presence. At his seances voices from materialised spirits
jjj address their friends in whispers, giving tokens of identity sometimes
iji uttered in foreign languages—German, French, Spanish, Danish, and
jjj Italian—all of which, with a single exception, we have the solemn
i asseveration of the medium he never learned, and messages are written
j out in these various languages on paper, without mortal contact. The
spirits also present their faces to the view of the visitors, illumined with
a soft light, and as spirits have the power to condense invisible atoms
of matter, and to become visible to us, so also have they the power to
nj pull asunder the atoms of (to us) solid matter. Everything we know of
jjj seems pervious to them. We have known a solid iron ring two inches
j j I in diameter—too small to pass over Dr. Witheford’s knuckles—to be
i j i placed on his wrist, while his hands were secured with tape, or held by
jjj a sceptic. We placed him in a bag of mosquito netting of our own, and
j j j tied it so tightly round his neck that he was almost suffocated at our
j jj residence last Wednesday, when the spirits gave us palpable proofs of
jjj their presence, and, to crown all, passed a living canary into the room,
i j brought some considerable distance, and which was identified by its
jjj owner. We read with a great deal of satisfaction in The Spiritualist of
jjj a similar ring-test being given in the presence of one of your mediums,
jjj and witnessed by Professor Aksakof. We look forward to the Russian
j I Academy of Sciences this year for greater and grander results than have
1)1 hitherto characterised the investigations of scientific bodies. The
I majority of believers in a future life are compelled to accept it as a
matter of simple faith, rather than as a hypothesis of science that comes
within the domain of established fact, in the concrete school of physics.
Some there are, however, who can draw aside the veil that conceals
metaphysical certainties, and who co-operate with the psychical side of
life through media, in aiding their departed friends to appear; these
much more easily and scientifically prove the fact, than Darwin and
Huxley can trace the descent of man from the quadrumana. There are
fairer fields and grander discoveries in unexplored domains, the im¬
manent latency of which is dimly outlined in these eccentric ahd con¬
centric manifestations of life, than have appeared in the changing
scenes of the economy of nature, since the aesthetic Greeks reared the
temple of Delphi. That was an epoch of occult expansion which at
last culminated in the doctrines of the Alexandrian school of philosophy.
This era having passed away phenomenal Spiritualism was lost sight of
in the high mental abstractions of Plato, and the dynamism of Aristotle.
Afterwards it was feebly revived among the Jews, through the medium-
j ship of Jesus and the apostles—^misunderstood by nearly all except the
154 THE SPIRITUALIST. March 31, 1876.
Gnostics, whom the Christian despoilers finally destroyed in the sixth
century. The Dark Ages setting in, well-nigh merged the rational soul
into the low, sentient emotions of the inferior animals, from which the
eighteenth and nineteenth centuries have scarcely recovered, or been
restored to the heights of spiritual culture attained among those ancient
civilisations. Alex. G. Donnely.
56, South Carpenter-street, Chicago, U.S., March 12th, 1876.
THE BAMFORD BOYS IN HOLLAND. if
Sir,—A note about the above-named mediums will perhaps be if
welcomed by the readers of The Spiritualist.
A short time ago our countryman, Mr. Tiedeman Martheze, now jj
residing in England, and well known among the friends across the i
Channel for his indefatigable work in our dear cause, visited Belgium, i
and afterwards Holland. He brought with him the Bamford boys, and i
permitted them to give seances freely where he thought it would be | j
profitable to the study of Spiritualism.
Allow me to relate in a few lines some remarkable phenomena j|
observed at the seance at my house held on Monday, Feb. 28th, at eight j|
o’clock in the evening. Besides Mr. Martheze and the boys there were i J
present the members of our Society Oromase, Mr. Linden (who visited | i I
London last year), and my wife. The cabinet consisted simply of a ; j j
corner of the room, shut off by a curtain hanging with rings on an iron i | j
rail. The light in the room was good during the whole sitting. | j j
Walter, the youngest boy, was sewed and packed up in a sack, and i||
bound to his chair, as so often described, all by ourselves. Phenomena: j |!
the bell laid on his knees (outside the sack) rang instantly. A mouth ijj
harmonica and an accordion were played upon. We obtained some \l\
writing on a slate under the same conditions ; also, a glass of water was
partially emptied. The two most striking phenomena consisted of the i j:
placing of one gentleman’s ring on the boy’s finger while the boy was I j i
bound, sewed, &c., and the playing, stopping, playing again, slowly or !)|
quickly, at Mr. Martheze’s signal, given out of the boy’s view, of our i|[
own musical box. Let me add, that after each manifestation the cur- m
tains were drawn aside, and the medium was found just in the same | j j
condition as we had put him at the beginning of the seance. This |(!
opening of the curtains was done, either by Mr. Martheze or by myself, i j j
directly after the manifestation ceased. I succeeded, also, once or twice |ji
in the experiment of the stopping and starting of the musical box at a j (j
given signal outside the cabinet, while the boy was inside.
Now, I hear, there has already been some talk about these boys in m
England, and there are people, it seems, who are not quite convinced of j(j
the reality of their gift; but I must say I should like to hear a jij
plausible explanation how the things are done, acceptable to common j)j
sense, and I cannot feel satisfied with those who say: “ We’ll consider |ji
nothing.” As long as no distinct and detailed explanation is given j j
about the manner in which these things can be done by ordinary means, : \ j
in a space of time so incredibly short, and under conditions like those | j i
at our seance, I say the Bamford boys are very good mediums, and the ijj
phenomena are genuine. There are persons who can swallow an ijj
elephant, and are afraid of a mouse. The explanations I heard of these j j
facts are, to common sense, far more wonderful than the phenomena of iji
Spiritualism. A. J. Riko. iji
The Hague, Oude Molstraat, 8th March, 1876. ijj
Sir,—I thankfully acknowledge a P.O. order for 5s. for me from jj;
Folkestone, giving no name. I am in severe pain, and very weak, or I j j
should have written sooner. George Ruby. ju
3, Keppel-row, Stoke Newington Green, N., March 22nd, 1876.
PUBLIUS syrus.
Sir,—Spiritualism brings us into contact with almost every branch of jj j
human inquiry and effort. Its battles are fought on many fields. The jj j
theologian, the metaphysician, the moralist, the physiologist, the j j
biologist, the physicist, the chemist, the historian, the biographer, the jjj
critic and linguist; with the poet, artist, and musician—each and all of jjj
these find problems of interest raised by Spiritualism within their jjj
special sphere. I hope, therefore, that your readers will be only good- j j
humouredly amused to find Mr. O’Sullivan and myself engaged in a jjj
quarrel over Latin verbs, and with some faint tinge of the spirit of the jjj
old disputants, flinging reproaches like that of “pedantic purism” at ijj
one another’s heads.
In reply to my strictures on the Latin of the line given by the control jjj
calling himself Publius Syrus as one of that author’s maxims—Quern jjj
Jupiter vult perdere dementat—Mr. J. L. O’Sullivan argues that the jj
verb dementare must have existed in Latin as the transitive form of which j) j
dementire is the intransitive, and on the strength of this theory states that j j j
dementabat, which occurs intransitively in Lactantius, must be a false jjj
reading for dementibat. Now, if it were true as a universal principle jjj
that verbs in -io are intransitive, as opposed to verbs in -o, which jjj
are transitive, Mr. O’Sullivan’s argument would be a sound one jjj
and his statement highly probable; but since it is not so true, his jjj
argument is merely ingenious, and his statement a pure assumption. It jjj
is -eo, not -io, that is the regular termination of intransitive verbs in jjj
Latin. The termination-io is appended to transitive and intransitive jjj
verbs indifferently. As instances of transitive verbs in-io we may take jjj
such common words as punire, audire, lenire, mollire, vestire, custodire. j j j
What determines the form of the verb insanire is not its intransitive j) j
meaning, but the fact that it is derived from the adjective insanis, which jjj
has -ifor its characteristic. Again, though verbs in -o are undoubtedly jjj
as a rule transitive, yet there are so many common exceptions, as for j j i
instance militare, labor are, exsulare, nigrare, and so on, that there is no jj
ground whatever to doubt the genuineness of the intransitive form demen- i)!
tare. The fact is that when Mr. O’Sullivan’s eye fell upon the word
insanire in Malone’s note on Boswell, which I quoted to him, his quick
wit suggested to him the comparison of sanare, and he framed his theory
on the spot, thus seeking to slay Boswell and myself with a shaft
feathered from our own wing. St. George Stock.
METEMPSYCHOSIS.
Sir,—I hope that Signor Damiani will jkindly accept my simple
assertion, that my allusion to the reincarnation question is only to be
taken as an en passant humorous intrusion, my own profound respect
for this gigantic problem forbidding on my part any meddling with it on
serious philosophical grounds. I only intended to enforce the illustra¬
tion of the rarity of true individualities among the millions of moving
dummies; the curtailing of my communication, however, robbed me in
this case of the point of my hint, for I wanted to show that the author
of Where are the Dead f might, in search of well-developed, indepen¬
dent-thinking specimens of the human race, cry out in vast bewilder¬
ment, “ Where are the living ? ”
If my inborn inclination for ridicule by pen or pencil has led me
here a little astray, I hope it will be taken in good part. Darwin’s
theory engaged my mind (as, I believe, it has that of many) more than
thirty years ago, when I saw a couple of live orang-outangs. At first
sight I felt tempted to draw a scale from these creatures up to the
human form divine, and I shudder to think how easily the outlines of
some of my personal acquaintances slipped in to form “ telling links ! ”
I tried to picture a menagerie where people clustered round their
favourite animals, attracted by affinity. I succeeded pretty fairly with
the caste of monkeys, donkeys, and even geese; but in spite of the
modern Spiritualistic phenomena, which in many beautiful phases draw
me forcibly into higher regions, my mind is sometimes pulled to the
very opposite place. This was the case only the other day, when a
fashionable young gentleman suddenly broke the current of a Spirit¬
ualistic discussion with the boast, “ You won’t get me into your creed;
I am a materialist! ” I was lost in the deepest admiration of Darwin’s
grand discovery, whilst my eye was fixed on the source of these
thundering words! Christian Reimers.
Manchester, 20th March, 1876.
MR. BLACKBURN’S FREE SEANCES.
Sir,—The weekly stance with Mr. Eglinton, under the auspices of
the National Association of Spiritualists, was held here last Friday
evening, in the presence of Mr. and Mrs. T. H. Edmands, the Rev. W.
Newboudd, Mrs. Neville, Miss C., Mr. A. Douglas, Mrs. S. J. Douglas,
Miss Alice Cook, Mr. Alfred Burr, and myself. Mr. E. Dawson Rogers
attended on behalf of the Seance Committee.
In compliance with the wish expressed by Mr. Eglinton’s controlling
spirit at the previous sitting, the cabinet was enlarged by throwing open
the doors and letting down the double lid with which the cabinet is
provided for this purpose. A baize curtain was hung in front, and a
second curtain of glazed cotton, always in use within one of the doors,
formed, as it were, a second chamber within the cabinet. On the floor
of this further chamber the medium was bound, reclining on a mattress,
in a similar manner to that described last week. The little musical
instrument called the Oxford chimes was suspended by an inquirer
present from the window of one of the doors which formed one
side of the foremost curtained chamber: this gentleman kept
the string attached to the instrument in his own hands during
the sitting. The medium’s feet were firmly bound together,
his wrists were tied with tapes passed through holes in the end of the
cabinet, and the inner curtain was between him and the Oxford chimes;
nevertheless the strings were played upon by hands, as was soon dis¬
tinctly audible. The controlling spirit conversed at length and often
wittily with the members of the circle. He told one gentleman, remark¬
able for his retiring disposition, that he was an “ artful dodger,” for he
always did good in a quiet way when it was least suspected. Later on
the musical instrument was taken down from the window and thrust
out under the curtain, the hand that placed it there being distinctly
visible. No further materialisation took place, to the disappointment of
the expectant sitters, the intention of the spirit desiring to show herself
being frustrated, it was said, by the strong sceptical element present.
There can be no doubt as to the fact of unbelief checking manifestations;
how this happens is a question for the scientific investigator of the
future. Emily Kislingbury.
38, Great Russell-street, London.
COLONEL OLCOTT ON A RELIC FROM THE GRAVE.
Sir,—At page 366 of my work, People from the Other World, occurs
a description of the delivery to Madame H. P. Blavatsky, by a materia¬
lised spirit calling himself “ George Dix,’’ of a silver buckle, which he
said had been transported by spirits from the grave of her father in
Russia. The affair transpired in the presence of some twenty witnesses.
The spirit is a regular attendant at Horatio Eddy’s dark seances, and
his voice and individual peculiarities are well known to thousands of
persons.
The spirit informed the lady that the trinket had been buried with her
father; and that it had been brought as an evidence, which none could
gainsay, that the Eddy phenomena were genuine spirit manifestations.
The account in my book is accompanied with an engraved sketch of
the buckle; and, to show its identity as something that had actually
been worn, I also give a sketch of the article with its ribbon and medal
attached, which the artist copied from a portrait in Madame Blavatsky’s
possession.
This circumstance has been widely noticed by the press, and has
lately been particularly and emphatically commented upon by Professor
March 31, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
155
Nicholas Wagner, of the St. Petersburg University, as one of the most
convincing of all the facts recorded in my work.
It has, however, been reserved for a person named to call the
phenomena in question. By implication, he makes it appear that as
“ decorations ” are not buried with the dead, therefore, if any such
ornament as this was delivered as described, it was a fraud upon the
witnesses, by procurement of Horatio Eddy, and, indirectly, of
Madame Blavatsky.
I am not retained as Eddy’s counsel, so I will leave the public to
judge, from my published narrative, as to the general fact of his
mediumship. No more am I called upon to defend Madame Blavatsky,
whose erudition, course of life in America, and social relations are of
such a nature as to be an all-sufficient answer to the vilest things that
the most craven male or female person can say of her. But I am re¬
tained in my own behalf, and no less ready than able to substantiate
every allegation for which as an author I am responsible.
Apropos of this case I would observe : 11 That the article in ques¬
tion is not a decoration in any sense, but a simple silver buckle,
brooch, or pin, as you may choose to call it. Its sole use was to
attach the ribbon of a war-medal to the officer’s coat. Its intrinsic
value may perhaps be five shillings. Its weight is just one quarter of
an ounce. It is one of a number that the Bussian officers had made
at Bucharest, after the Turkish campaign, when their medals were
distributed. 2. When the presentation was made, there was not the
slightest thing, either in the behaviour of the recipient or the circum¬
stances of the evening, to warrant suspicion of bad faith. Madame
Blavatsky seemed even more amazed than the rest of us at what
occurred; and the candle being instantly lighted, Horatio Eddy was
seen fast tied in his chair, some ten or twelve feet distant from her.
3. That if there had been anything incorrect in my account, it surely
would have been noticed by a Professor of the Imperial Bussian Uni¬
versity, and one of the most eminent savants living, who was risking
his reputation in endorsing my work as he did. 4. I have not been
admitted into the nobility, either by the front stairs or the kitchen
door, but I know some few persons of gentle blood, and one of them
is an Austrian Baron of ancient lineage—a Knight of the Sovereign
Order of St. John of Malta, and the wearer of numerous other
orders. He feels outraged at what he regards as an unmanly attack
upon a lady of his acquaintance, and has favoured me with the fol¬
lowing note;—
Colonel H. S. Olcott. New York, March 9, 1876.
Dear Sir,—When a person is nominated by a sovereign to any Order, the
insignia of the same accompany the notification to him of the honour con¬
ferred. At his demise these are returned to the sovereign in question. But
almost invariably the recipient has duplicate and triplicate sets of his decora¬
tions. One is for common wear, one for more select occasions, and one for
(fraud tenue—for Court balls, dinners, levees, &o., when full uniform is required.
These duplicate and triplicate sets are, of course, private property, and
families usually have a pride in retaining the most expensive ones as souvenirs,
while the triplicate set is buried with the body. The body is almost invari¬
ably interred in the full uniform of the person’s rank.
The “ buckle,” however, which you mention and illustrate in your book,
and which has been a matter of controversy, is no order at all. As you very
properly call it, it is only a buckle or pin. It serves the same purpose as those
little Venetian chains upon which any number of miniature orders may be
hung. This every one knows who has ever moved in Europe in what we call
“ Societybut it probably is not familiar to a class of people we call snobs.
*******
Baron De Palm.
This witness is probably a sufficiently satisfactory authority to warrant
my leaving the subject. Henry S. Olcott.
Lotos Club, No. 2, Irving Place, New York, March 10th, 1876.
[As it would be some weeks before permission could reach us from Colonel
Olcott, we have taken the liberty of striking out the name of one of the
persons named by him, because we do not wish personal contention on the
matter to be carried on in these pages.—Ed.]
GOETHE AS A MEDIUM.
Sir,—The following is an extract from Conversations of Goethe, by
Eckermann :—
“ At other times,’’ continued Goethe, “ it has been totally different
with my poems. They have been preceded by no impressions or fore¬
bodings, but have come suddenly upon me, and have insisted upon
being composed immediately, so that I have felt an instinctive and
dreamy impulse to write them down on the spot.
“ In such a somnambulistic condition, it has often happened that I
have had a sheet of paper lying before me, all on one side, and I have
not discovered it till all has been written, or I have found no room to
write any more. I have possessed many such sheets written crossways,
but they have been lost one after another, and I regret that I can no
longer show any proofs of such poetic abstraction.”
Eckermann writes, referring to Goethe’s fourth volume of Auto¬
biography, “ This volume affords a suitable occasion to speak of that
secret problematic power which all then feel, which no philosopher ex¬
plains, and over which the religious help themselves with consoling
words. Goethe names this unspeakable world and life-enigma, the
daemonic (ddmonisch); and while he defines its nature, we feel that so
it is, and the curtains seem to have been drawn away from before
certain backgrounds of our life. We seem to see further and more
clearly, but soon perceive that the object is too great and manifold, and
that our eyes only reach a certain limit.”
* * * * ❖ *
I dined with Goethe to-day, and the conversation soon turned again
on the daemonic. He said, “ The daemonic is that which cannot be ex¬
plained by reason or understanding; it lies not in my nature, but I am
subject to it.”
“ Napoleon,” said I, “ seems to have been of the daemonic sort.”
“ He was so thoroughly,” said Goethe, “ and in the highest degree, so
that scarce any one is to be compared to him. Our late grand Duke,
too, was a daemonic nature, full of unlimited power of action and
unrest * * * . Daemonic beings of such sort the Greeks reckoned
among their demi-gods.”
“ Is not the daemonic,” said I, “ perceptible in events also ?”
“ Particularly,” said Goethe, “ and indeed in all which we cannot
explain by reason and understanding. It manifests itself in the most
varied manner throughout nature—in the invisible as in the visible.
Many creatures are of a purely daemonic kind; in many, parts of it are
effective.”
******
“ In poetry,” said Goethe, “ especially in that which is unconscious,
before which reason and understanding fall short, and which, therefore,
produces eftects so far surpassing all conception, there is always some¬
thing daemonic. So it is with music, in the highest degree, for it stands
so high that no understanding can reach it, and an influence flows from
it, which masters all, and for which none can account. Hence re¬
ligious worship cannot dispense with it; it is one of the chief means
of working upon men miraculously. * * Our grand Duke had it to
such a degree that nobody could resist him * * but when the daemonic
spirit forsook him, and only the human was left, he knew not how to
set to work, and was much troubled by it.” T.
The Banner of Light announces that a medium, Mrs. Susie Willis-
Fletcher, will visit England about the end of April next, and that Dr.
Mack is expected to embark about the same time for Europe.
A letter from Mrs. S. Taylor, Hotel Branting, New York, informs
Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken that some prophecies given there through the
mediumship of the latter during her late visit to the United States,
proved in the end to be accurate predictions.
Miss Wood’s Mediumship.—The West Cumberland Times, of Satur¬
day last, gives an account of a Spiritualistic seance at Cockermouth
last week, by Miss Wood as medium. At the conclusion of the seance,
some colouring matter was found on her hands and dress. This colouring
matter had been secretly applied to the instruments; yet she was sealed
in exactly the same spot, and bound in the same manner as at first, in
the centre of the circle, in the centre of the room.
Spiritualism in Blackfriars.—On Sunday evening last, March 26th,
Mr. Chandler gave an excellent trance address, at the rooms of the
South London Association, 71, Stamford-street. The address was upon
the uses of Spiritualism, and was entirely free from dogmatic teaching,
the controlling spirit stating that to such as had faith in any particular
creed he had no message. On Sunday next, April 2nd, Mrs. Baker-
Howarth will deliver a trance address. Doors open at half-past six;
commence at seven.—J. Burton, Hon. Sec.
An Undertaker’s Sorrow for the Bereaved.—Toby Glassock, an
eminent comedian, went out to New York under engagement to Mr.
Wallack there. Toby was of habits quite too convivial, and Mr. Wallack
felt the necessity of carefully guarding him against an excess to which
he was unhappily too liable. To introduce him with eclat Mr. Wallack
invited to meet him a very distinguished company at dinner; and in
order to keep him quite steady, and competent to exercise his wonderful
talents of shining in society, he proposed to occupy the forenoon by a
drive to the principal parts of the city, and the seeing of its sights.
After much driving and seeing many sights Toby became very thirsty,
and “ Mr. Wallack,” said he, “ I must have a drink.” Mr. Wallack
pointed out that their drive was nearly over, and he had better wait.
To this Toby reluctantly consented. They drove on: Toby’s thirst
became uncontrollable, and his grumblings low and distinct, and to Mr.
W.’s remonstrances insisted he must have a drink. “ But,” said Mr.
Wallack, “ wait a very little, and we shall be at home. You can’t get
any thing here.” ‘‘Halloa, you fellow, pull up,” shouted Toby to the coach¬
man. The horses were pulled up, and the carriage stopped opposite an
undertaker’s shop. The signboard indicated—‘‘Funerals performed
here; everything provided.” Toby descended, and walked in through
the shop, between rows of coffins on either side, and seated himself in
the little room at the back part of the shop. The undertaker came in
and found Toby at the table, his handkerchief to his brow, and in a
state of profound grief. To attract his attention the little man gave
a mild cough or two, and Toby slowly recognising his presence,
asked very mournfully, “ Are you the undertaker ?” “ Yes, sir.”
“ Oh,” said Toby. “ Yes, yes, you are the undertaker,” and relapsed
into silent sorrow. “ Sir,” said the undertaker, “ these bereavements
are very sad; but in our business we see much that is very painful.
It will be necessary for you to restrain your feelings that we may
receive your instructions. Was the party a gentleman, sir, or a
lady?” ‘‘A lady, sir. Oh, I faint. Give me some wine; some brandy,
sir,” hysterically shrieked Toby. The undertaker hastened to place
brandy and water before the agonised Toby, who immediately helped
himself largely to the former, and more sparingly to the latter; and
draining the goblet remarked, ‘‘I’m better now.” After a pause the
undertaker ventured to ask, “ Was the party, sir, married or unmarried?
because in the one case we use black plumes,, and in the other white
plumes.” “ Mix ’em," said Toby, appropriately mixing himself some
more brandy and water. The decanter was now nearly out, and the
undertaker, from Toby’s excessive grief, having as yet had nothing very
definite in his instructions, suggested that he should like to be informed
where he should find the body. “ The body, sir!” said Toby, in much
surprise, but emptying his glass, “the body, sir! I understood you to
say you provided everything. Provide the body.” Exit.—Belfast News
Letter.
156
THE S PIE ITU AL 1ST,
March 31, 1876,
iPnibttmal iictos*
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
PUBLIC CONTENTION ABOUT SPIRITUALISM.
The Rev. David King gave a lecture on “ Spiritualism ” in the Mission
Hall, Gloucester-road, Rye Hill, on Thursday evening last week, to an
audience of about two hundred persons. After a few preliminary obser¬
vations, he asserted that the phenomena and the communications were
unreliable, because the observers were not certain whether they were
from spirits or otherwise, also that spirits do not draw forth the vital
power used in the production of phenomena, but that men waste it,
therefore seances are detrimental to the best physical condition. Spirit¬
ualism, he argued, was wrong on moral grounds, and, lastly, on reli¬
gious grounds. The lecturer based his arguments on extracts from the
works of A. J. Davis, from speeches at the conference at Rhode Island;
also from the Medium, by reading the accounts, or part of them, of the
Egerton and Heme Jiascos at Liverpool, and the Katie King exposure
in America; but he said that he was prepared to admit that tables and
other objects did move without contact, but by psychic force. As an
illustration of the bad physical effects, he asserted that in the State of
Indiana, out of 24,000 lunatics, 5,000 cases were traced directly to
Spiritualism. When speaking about the moral grounds, he introduced
all the filth he could find from the free lovers of America; he added
that Spiritualists in general were the most immoral people in the civi¬
lised world. Lastly, Spiritualism was condemned, root and branch,
from the Bible ; it was simply the witchcraft and necromancy of old,
and he quoted all the texts in the Old Testament that contained any in¬
junction on the point. At the close of the lecture opportunity was given
for anybody to speak on the subject, but some time having elapsed, and
no one rising, he repeated again the two last propositions that Spirit¬
ualism was wrong on moral and religious grounds.
Mr. Rhodes then rose and asked the lecturer if he obeyed all the laws
of Moses to the letter, because, if not, he ought to allow Spiritualists
the same liberty to set aside those laws. There was another thing, the
lecturer had carefully abstained from making any allusion to the New
Testament, which was full of Spiritualism, and would he kindly read
from the Bible before him the 1 Cor. 12th chapter ?
Mr. King replied that Moses said “Thou shaltnot steal.” Now,he did
not steal not because it was the law of Moses, but because it was wrong;
and if Spiritualism was wrong, morally and physically it ought to be
avoided. That was why those injunctions were given. He declined to
read the portion of Scripture referred to, but if his questioner liked to
do so he could.
Mr. Rhodes walked up to the platform, and, on taking the Bible from
the lecturer, said that he was a Spiritualist, and as such it afforded him
great pleasure to read the first portion of the chapter he had mentioned,
also Mark xvi. 17, 18. He afterwards returned the Bible to the chair¬
man, and stated that those gifts, and many others, were in full operation
among Spiritualists, but did they exist in the Church ? He would like
to know, as a believer, whether the signs spoken of by Mark followed
the lecturer, and if not, for what reason ?
Mr. King replied that the questions just put by the speaker required
a separate lecture; but did the discerning of spirits spoken of relate
to those in the body or out of it ? He believed to those in the body, for
it was necessary to discern what kind of spirits presented themselves
for admission to the Church. Again, was his questioner prepared to
take up serpents, or a dose of prussic acid if he gave it to him?
(Applause.)
Mr. Rhodes rejoined that he had spoken of the various manifestations
in general. There were no serpents in this country, but it was a
common thing for the Indian mediums, called Fakirs, to handle
serpents; and in regard to the poison, would the reverend gentleman
admit that if such were the case in past days it might be so now ?
Mr. King then went into a long argument to show that this power
was given by the Apostles by the laying on of hands, and was to cease
with the last of them, when the Church was founded and the power
withdrawn.
Mr. Rhodes did not think that he could substantiate that statement
from the New Testament; and, even if the assertion were true, would
he be prepared to state that the whole history of the Church in the first
three or four centuries, abounding in miracles equal to or surpassing
those in the New Testament, were totally unreliable ?
Mr. King : "Why had they not continued down to the present time ?
Mr. Rhodes said he would admit that the power had departed from
th# Church.
Mr. King explained that they were the pretended miracles of a lying
and apostate Church, and that they had been foretold in the Scriptures.
The meeting then closed. Some little discussion followed as the
company gradually dispersed. It was evident that several of those
present had not been prepared to hear that some of the physical phe¬
nomena were genuine, and altogether it was just such a lecture as would
induce many to think more about Spiritualism.
EXPERIMENTS IN MESMERISM.
Last Saturday evening Mr. Nicholas Morgan gave the last of a course
of lectures on Mesmerism, in the Lecture Hall, Nelson-street, to a crowded
audience, a large proportion of which consisted of boys; but the lecturer
was evidently a great favourite with them; they were as quiet as mice
while he was speaking, and uproarious in their demonstrations of ap¬
proval while any strong power was being manifested by him over his
subjects. On this occasion Mr. Morgan prefaced his experiments by
observing that mesmerism was a power given by the Giver of all good,
and that its highest object was the alleviation of disease. He recounted
several instances of his power in that respect, but led the audience to
infer that in some cases he himself was only an agent, “ acting
under impressions and by a power not his own.” While standing on
the platform Mr. Morgan took a glass of water, held it up, and invited
the audience to look at it steadily and continuously; in less than a
quarter of an hour he succeeded in drawing from the audience five
young men on to the platform; they reached it by climbing over the seats
and over heads of other persons, falling down and getting up again.
As each reached the platform the professor drew them to the form,
made a sharp pass over them, and they each dropped on the form,
remaining there rigid till he released them for further experiments.
When music was played to them they became reverential or uproarious,
according to the tune; he also set them to work at various imaginary
trades, and by a pass at the back of each which they could not see,
made each one rigid in just the position he was in at the moment; some
of the attitudes were very grotesque. At one time he caused his sensitives
to have the stomach-ache, and one of them shouted out “For God’s
sake take this pain away,’’ then in his convulsions he fell over the
railings of the platform down some stairs, but was fortunately not much
injured.
His best subject for the evening was a young man in his own employ,
whom he mesmerised on the stage, and one experiment worth noticing
was tha t a gentleman in the audience was requested to stand at the back
of Mr. Morgan, and every now and then move his hand; as he did so
a corresponding movement took place with Mr. Morgan, that movement
having its effect on the sensitive. The most laughable scene of the
whole evening was caused by the sensitives endeavouring to hide and
escape from an imaginary “ ghost,” which consisted of a white handker¬
chief flaunted in their faces; no scene at any theatrical pantomime ever
caused more uproarious laughter.
LIVERPOOL.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
The Liverpool Psychological Society is not in so flourishing a con¬
dition as formerly, as indicated by the fact that Mr. J. J. Morse recently
gave two lectures, without fee or reward, in aid of the funds of the
society; Messrs. Hitchman, Priest, Ainsworth, and Lament have also
worked nobly in the same direction. The Sunday services are well
attended, especially at night; sometimes the hall is crowded to excess.
The Friday evening lectures are not so well attended, as the public are
excluded.
MASTER JOHN MOORE’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Mr. Coates writes that a series of seances for physical manifestations
has been held at the residence of Mr. John Moore, Kensington, Liver¬
pool. Every facility was given to investigators to exercise the keenest
scrutiny. Master John Moore, the medium, will be fourteen years of
age next birthday. At the seances he is secured with tapes and wax,
and not unfrequently his sleeves are sewed together; the light is suffi¬
cient to see any one in the room distinctly. The phenomena are some¬
what akin to those which occur in the presence of Mrs. Fay, particu¬
larly in the circumstance that the medium does not at any time lose
consciousness during the production of the manifestations, and can see
the things as they are moved about. Directly the curtains of the
cabinet are closed, the kettle-drum, bells, and tambourine are played
upon; whenthe curtains are thrown open by the director of the seance, the
medium is found secured as at first; and so on with the rest of the
manifestations, including the ring test and slate-writing. Several
mediums are developing in Liverpool, in the quietude of their homes;
and in home-life the best conditions are undoubtedly furnished.
SUNDAY SERVICES.
Two interesting lectures were delivered last Sunday to large and
appreciative audiences: one in the morning, by Mr. J. Ainsworth, on
“ Criminal Drunkards, and their Elevation; ” and the other in the
evening, by Mr. J. Lamont, on “ Liberty to Grow.”
Mr. Coates writes that the “ dancing dolls ” mentioned in a paper
read before the Liverpool Psychological Society are made to jump about
by clever jugglery, not by any abnormal power; he does not say how
the trick is done.
Conjurors of the name of Mr. and Mrs. Heller have been exhibiting
imitation spiritual manifestations in Glasgow.
Dr. Sexton is about to deliver some lectures in the North of Eng¬
land on Spiritualism, under the auspices of the National Association of
Spiritualists.
A Suffering Sensitive.—A Scotch correspondent who is suffering
from attacks of evil spirits, or disease, or both combined, makes the
following statement, which agrees with that of one or two other sufferers
in the circumstance of external mechanical noises weaving themselves
into words to his consciousness :—“ The voices reiterated dirty words,
keeping time to the vibrations of the ‘ donkey’ piston. The language,
sometimes in prose, sometimes set to the popular tunes of different
countries, is so abominably filthy that I shall spare you the perusal.
The system adopted in coercing me into obedience is talk, talk—inces¬
sant talk, and minor inflictions of bodily suffering; loss of power,
lethargic annoyance, irresolution, smothered rage, bad language passing
from the tongue when the brain is thinking something useful; dreams
which are remembered some days after are so mixed up with events in
my normal experience that I am not sure whether they are facts or
dreams. Every time my ears came within the sounds of the engines
the language was in time with each stroke of the piston or revolution of
the crank, and this all across the Atlantic. The paintings of “ Hafed ”
being viewed previously by the brain of some individual, supplied the
idea of the so-called spiritual book. Until Mr. Nisbet feels as I feel he
cannot understand the matter. I was impelled to this town by an
irresistible power—pleasant, though.”
THE SPIEITUALIST,
March 31, 1876.
in
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF 11 THE SPIRITUALIST"
NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.O.
(Entrance in Wobum-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAOER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, ' by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 5s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given, os.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic! Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G.. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttletbn. 2 Vols., crown 8vo„ 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—^“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” Bs. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneuraatology; Miracles
and ^Science: the Spirit' and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. Od.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s Od.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens’ these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made,by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
n this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote‘during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6a.; cheap edition,
7s. Od.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM.MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. 6d. “
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
"THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILiT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. Gd.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Gd.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. Gd.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. Gd.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 9s.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Gd.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, Gd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Gd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Gd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By O. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. Gd.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. Od.) 4s..
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . .15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . , .76
The Teacher. „ II. ' „ . . ; > .76
The Seer. „ III, „ f . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. ... • . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography pi A, J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . ‘ . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil ... . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . ,,26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . ,. . 7 6
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . ... 6 0
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained . . —. 7 0
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . 2 6
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. . . ,.3 0
Morning Lectures . . . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
24 0
14 0
5 0
18 0
12 6
Oriental Rehgions (Johnson)
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The SpiaiTUAMSi Newspaper . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel)
History of American Socialisms'(Noyes) .
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) .
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 0
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 A.B.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A, Trin. ColL, Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . ' . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by^James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
iilanation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . ’ 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pain, B.A . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools . , , , .10
CARTE DE VISITS PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Fore ter. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R
Hazard. Gd.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
Gd.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of;Spiritualism, by-
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” Gd.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
Is.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young. Gd.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. 0. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. Gd.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s.
iy
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President •
HENEY D. JENCKEN, ’ESQ., M.E.L
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Beform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
COUNCIL:
Mrs. C. Ada Biyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Biyton, Mr. E. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas "Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Bouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:—74, Navarino-road, dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar 'Associations which reciprocate similar
irivilege. Strangers can |only be admitted to the ordinary seance
leld on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
toXspecial seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, orlnarration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may he of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of tlie privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several .well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following,, viz.:
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E, A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the'library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s, All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
, LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium. and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: Colby AND Bich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office, 38, Great Bussell-street.
BOARD and RESIDENCE, Upper Norwood.—
A lady, of liberal views, and Nonconformist, desires to
establish in her own house a friendly family party of two or
three ladies. Young orphan ladies would find this a pleasant
home, and those who wish to study will have advantages in
joining the classes now so popular at the Crystal Palace
Schools of Art. Terms—130 guineas per annum, or propor
tiohately less for a shorter term. Address—Alpha, 1, Bemard-
villas, Upper Norwood.
EAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Bussell-
street, London, "W.O. 
The trapped medium j or, the two
CLEYEB SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Beimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F B S., X.Y.Z., B.LG.A.S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d : post free, 6£d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Eussell-street, London, "W.O.
ESMERISM, ELECTRO-BIOLOGY,
FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DB. MOSES BIGG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granville-square, London, W.O. At home daily
from 10 till 6.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE:
Countess Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Esq., Borne, Italy.
S. C. Hall, Esq., 50, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington.
Charles Blackburn, Esq., Didsbury, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-flelds.
A. A. Watts, Esq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W.
S. Chinnery, Esq., 142, Strand, London, W.C.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Eomore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Bochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, Gloucester-gate, Begent’s-
park.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Boston, U.S.A.
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Begent’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixou, Esq., M.D., 8 Great Ormond-street, W.O.
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Great Bussell-street, W C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.B.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C.
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Bue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Col. Hamilton, York-place, Portman-square.
John Lament, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 19, Leamington-road-villas, Westboume-
park.
Subscriptions will be received and duly acknowledged by
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington.
Just Published price 10s. 5d.
THE MECHANISM OF MAN; An Answer
to the Question, “ What am I ? ” A Popular Introduc¬
tion to Psychology and Mental Physiology. By Edward W.
Cox, Serjeant-at-Law, President of the Psychological Society
of Great Britain. Vol. I., The Mechanism. Contents—Parti,
Introductory; Part 2, The Mechanism; Part 3, The Forces
that Move and Direct the Mechanism—Life, Mind, Soul.
London: Longmans and Co.
In the Press.
DR. MONCK’S ALMANACK AND TRUTH-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM. Over fifty closely-printed pages,
with illustrations of direct drawings through Dr. Duguid’s
mediumship. Contains original articles written expressly for
the almanack by S. C. Hall, F.8.A., Dr. W. Hitcbman,
“Fritz," T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., W. Oxley, T. Shorter, Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory, A. Calder, J. N. Tredman Martheze, Mrs.
Tyndall, &c., &c. Subjects—“Scientific Spiritualism,’’ “ Cui
Bono,” “The Healing Power," “Spiritualism in Every-day
Life," ‘ The Beneficent Aspect of Spiritualism,” On Mediums,'
“Buies for the Spirit Circle." Will be found very useful
among sceptics and investigators. Orders should be sent in at
once to Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Quantities supplied to societies or for free distribution
at a liberal reduction. Agents wanted.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy. Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Bussell-street, London, W.C.
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
kj U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scu ntist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and '24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 88, Great Bussell-
street, London.
THE AMERICAN SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE.
Devoted to Spiritualism. Its history, phenomena, and
teachings from a Christian stand-point.—The Editor has been
an Itinerant Methodist Minister fur over 36 years, 33 of which
have been spent in Memphis, Tennessee, and vicinity where
the Magazine is published. It belongs to no sect or party, but
is free to discuss all subjects untrammeled, adopting as its
motto—
“ To seize the truth wherever found,
On Christian or on heathen ground.’’
It contains thirty-two pages of reading matter besides the
cover. Published monthly, price 10s. per annum. Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Bussell-street
London, W.C.
March 31, 1876.
The alpha j or, the first principle
OF THE HUMAN MIN D; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “ We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows."—Athenmum. “It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.’’—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, witha beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
TPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
JL PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha." A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;” The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “ one
thing" desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Begenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
“THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES" and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION" are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, London, "W.C.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics os
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869,
nHHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-A oldest Newspaper connected with the movement In the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E, F.R.8.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause): Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden); The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchtenberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent? (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Barouess Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stauhope Tempieman Speer. M.D. (Eclln.);
Mr. J. C. buxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn: Air.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Air. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Air. S. C.
Hall, F.8.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. ill. Wilson, AI.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Airs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kislin&
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Air. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United;Kingdom, 10s. lOd
To residents In the United States, "4 dels. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Monteomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and thetr receipt forwarded to “ The Afauager
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.O.’’
[December. 1875.]
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils.. By Frederick A. Binney
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co„ at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew- above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
