[Registebed as a Newspaper.
f)^YCiSoi(OGcidSi(
@p (flb-esf r.aim^rf^b billj Spirifwalisnt in <&xmt c§nfam>
No. 185. (VOL. YIII.—No. 10.) LONDON: FRIDAY, MARCH 10, 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
(Eontentg.
The Educational Influences of Organisation:—A Tea-
Party at the House of Tozer, the Deacon—Social Claims
upon Nonconformist Preachers — The Superannuated
Pastor—The New Minister is Told what to Expect—Mr.
Tozer’s Opinions... ...         109
Spiritualism as Viewed by Various Philosophers  112
Truth:—The Present a Time of Trial and Conflict—This
is Incident to a Period of New Revelation—There will
always be Degrees of Progress among Men—Truth is
Many-Sided — The Purest Truth is Esoteric — The
Pursuit of Truth for its Own Sake, Man’s Noblest Aim 113
Blackwood's Magazine on Spiritualism ... ... *  ... 114
A Materialisation Seance in Liverpool  114
The Psychological Society of Great Britain : — Spirit
Identity—The Travelling of the Spirit during the Sleep
of the Body — Mesmeric Phenomena—Instinct and
Reason—Can Animals become Insane ?  115
Clairvoyance and Painting Mediumship. By Benjamin
Coleman     116
Correspondence:—Speculations about Elementary Spirits,
Spiritual Evolution, Reincarnations, Magicians, and
Mediums—The Origin of an Ancient Maxim — The
Influence of Light-on Spiritual Manifestations—Mate-
realisation of Spirits and Physical Phenomena at
Islington—Mr. 'Williams’ Mediumship—Brixton Psycho¬
logical Society      117
Ti ansactions of the National Association of Spiritualists:—
The Healing Powers of Mesmerism and Mediumship—
A Seance with Mr. Eglington—A Deep Trance..;  119
Answers to Correspondents  119
“Hafed, Prince of Persia”   120
Paragraph:—Spiritualism in Brixton  119
j^priteltsi lljeforappr.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
vJ crown for the first flfty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications tor the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street,
London: and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.O ■ City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London, E.O.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM & LIBRARY
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to members and inquirers. News¬
papers and periodicals connected with Spiritualism, from
all parts of the world, and various high-class journals, are regu¬
larly supplied. The library contains, in addition to the best
writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, speculative, and
scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes
membership and the loan of two books from the library;
10s. 6d. a year, one book from the library. Non-members can
subscribe 5s. for one quarter for the free use of the Reading-
room, but without the advantage of the Lending Library.
A Seance-room, can be engaged under special arrangements,
to be learned from the Secretary.
Open from 10,30a.m. to 9 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends, and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience.
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XL—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
may be had in a week or two, price 10s. 6d. each, at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
DR. MONCK’S ALMANACK and truth-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.” Over forty closely printed pages.
Price 3d. Contains original articles on “Scientific Spiritual¬
ism,” “Cui Bono,” “The Healing Power,” “Rules for the
Spirit-circle,” &c., &c., by S. C. Hall, Dr. W. Hitchman,
“Fritz,” T. P. Barkas, &c. Will be found very useful among
Sceptics and Investigators. Quantities supplied to societies or
for free distribution at a great reduction. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Address, Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol.
Agents wanted.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D, etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row,
THE BANNER OF LIGHT; The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, (fee., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psieologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal,
appears on the 1st and 15th of every month. Price
2d., or 5 francs yearly. Belgium—37, Rue Florimont, Lifege.
London—The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Capucines, Paris.
J.
T. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of /
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
Bast London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a m.;
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALIStt EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :—Simbkin, Marshall & Co.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C.
"OEFLEXIONEN aus der GEISTER-
XY» WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Josefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London:
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
.Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given Inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-
street, London, W.C.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This broehure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d : post free, 6£d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C-
Mesmerism, electro-biology,
FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR, MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granville-square, London, W.C. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, jet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-
street, London.
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
BOARD and RESIDENCE, Upper Norwood.—
A lady, of liberal views, and Nonconformist, desires to
establish in her own house a friendly family party of two or
three ladies. Young orphan ladies would find this a pleasant
home, and those who wish to study will have advantages in
joining the classes now so popular at the Crystal Palace
Schools of Art. Terms—130 guineas per annum, orpiopor
tionately less for a shorter term. Address—Alpha, 1, Bernacd-:
villas. Upper Norwood,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 10, 1876.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Dldsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-yilla, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hltchman, William, M.R.O.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templenian,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, Flncliley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derbj’ House, Belper.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T.j The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, E A.,22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkcld-street, Liverpool.
Chlnnerv, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook. Keningale, LL.D., 38, Great Russeil-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, K., Vienna-lodgo, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George II., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T'., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmunds, T. H., 7, Oborstein-road, Now Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, DesmondG., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph. 6 Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hiiide, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mawson, Win. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, Vv. D., Aylsham, Nonolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwiek-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate,Regent’s
Park., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassctt-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson. Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, .Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road,S E
Shepherd, J.,29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Spelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton. A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp & R,, is, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
iheo ja-u, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
’Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. II. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, be! Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmleld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Myln% Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 88th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Dmmmond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
Mi C Constant (late of Smyrna), 18, Via Fate bene Fratelli, Milan.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Ruaseil-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Oregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 85, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E, Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clayairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. dc Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Aldlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjea, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. K. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis
Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—II. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
ITochaszka Josefstadt, Ei'zherzog, Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association Of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kislingbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.. of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
iVeiidenf.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox.
Committee of Management.—Mr. J. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
Mr. J. Chapman, Mr G-. Brown, Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jones,
Mr. William Meredith, Mr. Ainsworth, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
Trustees.—James Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lament, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd.
Auditors.—Mr. P. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
In the Press.
Dr. monck’s almanack and truth-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM. Over fifty closely-printed pages,
with illustrations of direct drawings through Dr. Duguid’s
mediumship. Contains original articles written expressly for
the almanack by S. O. Hal), F.8.A., Dr. W. Hitchman,
"Fritz,” T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., W. Oxley, T. Shorter, Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory, A. Oalder, J. N. Tredman Martheze, Mrs.
Tyndall, &c., &c. Subjects—“ Scientific Spiritualism,’’ u Cui
Bono,” "The Healing Power,” "Spiritualism in Every-day
Life,” ‘ The Beneficent Aspect of Spiritualism,” On Mediums,’
‘‘Rules for the Spirit Circle.” Will be found very useful
among sceptics and investigators. Orders should be sent in at
once to Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Quantities supplied to societies or for free distribution
at a liberal reduction. Agents wanted.
Art, magic, mundane, sub-mun-
DaNE, AND SUPER-MUNDANE SPIRITISM.
The European subscribers to this fine work are respectfully
informed that it has just been sent to press, and will be ready
for delivery on or about the 1st of March. In America, where
the work is published, books can be sent by express, and pay¬
ments collected on delivery. As this plan cannot be pursued in
sending hooks to Europe without very heavy express charges,
and the secretary, on the author’s behalf, does not feel jus'itted
in sending out such a rare and valuable book unpaid, those
who have not already remitted their subscriptions, and desire
to obtain their copies with the least possible delay, can send
the amount by Post Office Order, cheque, registered letter, or
any other mode most convenient to themselves. The price
of each copy, as before stated, is five dollars, and the postage
(if prepaid) half-a-dollar. Remittances will be immediately
acknowledged, and the book sent by mail (unless otherwise
directed) as soon as ready. — Emma Hardinge Britten,
Secretary for the publication of Art Magic, &c., 206, West 38th-
Btreet, New York, America.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Oonduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. .
Address as above.
•RS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE, HEALING,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing, Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his
Spirit Physicians, who cure through him, in his normal
state, that having been developed by them into a powerful
healing medium, and at the same time, by a course of deep
study, acquired a practical knowledge of the philosophy of
disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to ex¬
amine, treat, and cure patieuts, suffering from all kinds of
acute, chronic, nervous, and organic disease of long years'
standing. Consultations and invaluable treatment given at
his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appointment.
Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily.
Fee, One Guinea. Address, 69, Finborough-road, Kedcllffe-
gardens, South Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
.TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (30 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MrTwILLIAM EGLINGTON, the PHY-
SICAL MEDIU M, Is at liberty to receive ENGAGE¬
MENTS for Stances at private houses. For terms, &c.,
address, Mr.W. Eglington, St. James’s House, Walthamstow.
Clairvoyance, and healing by spirit
MESMERISM.—Test Communications through Trance
and Writing. Seances by Mrs. Olive, the well-kuown Spirit-
Medium, on Thursday (other days by appointment only), from
two to four p.m. for Private Consul cation, and four to five for
Public Seance, at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury. Mrs.
Olive also holds Public Seances at her residence, 49, Belmont-
street, Chalk-farm-road, N.W., on Tuesdays, seven p.m., and
Fridays, three p.m. Terms—Private Seances, one guinea;
Public ditto, admission 2s. 6d. Mrs. Olive's Healing Powers
are now well established, and testified to by many who employ
no other medical aid. Special terms for courses of treatment
on application. Single visits for consultation, &c., within ten
miles, two guineas inclusive.
Mediumship , its nature and
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d. “ 
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
psychopathic institute
For the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUS¬
CULAR DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church,
74, Queen’s-road, Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Ope¬
rators sent to all parts. Terms per arrangement.
J, Coates, Principal.
THE AMERICAN spiritual magazine.
Devoted to Spiritualism. Its history, phenomena, and
teachings from a Christian stand-point.—The Editor has been
an Itinerant Methodist Minister fur over 36 years, 33 of which
have been spent in Memphis, Tennessee, and vicinity where
the Magazine is published. It belongs to no sect or party, but
is fiee to discuss all subjects untrameled, adopting as its
motto—
“ To seize the truth wherever found,
On Christian or on heathen ground.”
It ’contains thirty-two pages of reading matter besides the
cover. .Published monthly, price 10s. per annum Spiritualist
newspaper ’branch office, 38, Great Russell-street
London, W.C.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for along time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rythmic beauty, grandeur, and Imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar Influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: Colby and Rich, London Spirit¬
ualist QtAve, 38, Great Russell-street.
e/b 5JA9
$1 (fjij tl nttb tl ^piijiiunK$JU»
VotujviE JEJiqht. Kumber Tejm.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
THE EDUCATIONAL INFLUENCES OF ORGANISATION.
Organisation, on free and intelligent principles, belongs
only to an advanced state of human society. When the
ancient Jews dethroned one tyrant because he became too
bloodthirsty, they put up another in his place; they were not
advanced enough to be able to understand or to establish a
better system of national government; but the rule under
which they placed themselves was as good as they deserved,
and like all the rest of mankind, they and other primitive
races have had to gain wisdom by long ages of experience
and of suffering. The nature and influence of organisation
have been deeply discussed among Spiritualists since the year
1873, and Mr. Paul, at a meeting at Marylebone, summed
up the true function of organisation in a few words, when he
said that it was to “give strength if it gave strength to a
bad cause, it was because the cause itself was bad, there
being nothing good or evil in organisation itself, but in the
uses to which it might be applied. Election of managers
according to the modern system of vote by ballot, combined
with an existence based upon voluntary subscriptions, gives
security that any modern organisation will fall to pieces
directly its officers cease to carry out the wishes of the main
body ; in these points most organisations in England and
America differ from the Spanish Inquisition and other
baneful institutions of the past, in which so much power was
concentrated in the hands of a few, that the combination
was little superior to tyrannical individualism.
Those who, from the quiet retirement of private life, took
part in the work of organisation in the Spiritual movement
in Great Britain, first of all passed through the preliminary
process of educating themselves in the consideration of these
great principles, after which they gained fresh experience in
the work of putting them into practice. Much greater
freedom than before was conferred upon individuals who
took part in the undertaking ; those faithful workers
who previously had no voice in the public affairs of Spirit¬
ualism, and who had been looking on helplessly while noisy
or thoughtful individuals pleased or displeased them, by
taking public action without the sanction, but in the name
of the body at large, were deprived of their improper power.
Individual Spiritualists gradually fell into those places in
which they were best fitted to work for the good of the
movement; they further obtained a voice and a power in the
conduct of the public business of Spiritualism of which
they had previously been deprived by disunion and dis¬
organisation, those greatest foes of liberty. Another boon
conferred on the movement by organisation is that we are
gradually learning how to put into practical operation the
art of self-government. The amount of work in the pre¬
liminary stages of organising has been heavy, showing the
wisdom of undertaking it when no particular onslaught was
made upon the movement from without, and which would
have necessitated the hasty banding together into not the
most harmonious groups, of incongruous elements inexperi¬
enced in their new functions. Those who have not con¬
sidered the point can scarcely realise the power, both of
offence and defence, which has been quietly and deliberately
gained by the Spiritual movement since the year 1873.
Strength has taken the place of weakness; harmony of
discord ; freedom of individual rule.
The stability and power of an organisation bear a direct
relationship to the average education of its members.
Unintelligent individuals in civilised communities may yet
be found in favour of the despotic individual rule of primitive
races and savages; others, a step higher in the ladder of
human progress, form organisations in which much tyranny
may be rampant, and individual superiority stamped out.
The more ignorant the man, the greater is his desire to rule,
and to publicly exhibit his exercise of power; such indi-
MARCH 10th, 1876.
ijl viduals, who are frequently stamped with the seal of vulgar
! 1 wealth, are the bane of small, unintelligent organisations;
I! they crush out from such bodies everything of a high
| nature, calculated to influence for good the superior sections
of the outside world. The more noble and intelligent man
| refuses to be governed himself, but has not the slightest
| desire to govern others ; he considers personal liberty to be
i one of the most valuable of human rights, and thinks that it
11: should never be interfered with until its misapplication does
| (I harm to others.
At present we wish to speak only of the lowest class of
i ! civilised associations, namely, those in which a few unin-
i | i telligent men band together, forming an organisation but
jll little superior to tyrannical individualism. Among the
I (| chapels of the dissenting community are many such aggre-
jjl gations, mixed with others of a superior order; at present
| | we speak only of the worst, because therein is presented a
j| j phase of organisation not yet illustrated inside the Spiritual
i i movement, which may be seen in it hereafter, and can now
|(| be calmly considered. The National Association of Spirit-
111 ualists is composed of an overwhelming preponderance of
111 educated members, whilst many of our smaller organisations
jjj bind themselves together loosely, and fall to pieces after a
111 limited existence.
In the lowest chapel organisations men who have made
m money in a strictly moral or a doubtful way—usually the
111 former—have worldly influence enough to be made deacons.
||| By “ strictly moral” we mean that they have kept to the
I | letter every social and business agreement, regretting that in
| H so doing they have been grinding the faces of the poor, have
111 killed a few delicate apprentices by overwork, and have never
111 been known to be guilty of a generous emotion; they are
111 men who impute bad and mean motives to all who are not
jjj “saved” inside their conventicle, and who regret that the
I laws laid down by Providence, and which they have strictly
j j j kept, resulted in the deaths of the apprentices aforesaid, in
j j j the midst too of a family addicted to morning and evening
jjj prayers. Mixed with these men are others of a better
j j | nature, and together they form an organisation such as we
I > j now proceed to picture.
j j j The report published upon another page of the last meet-
I | ing of the Psychological Society, sets forth the opinion of
ijl several speakers that first principles may be driven into the
jj] minds of students with greater force when backed by illus-
i | j trations. It so happens that Mrs. Oliphant, in her clever
jj! novel entitled Salem Chapel* sets forthwith skilful pen the
jjj evils of the lower class of organisations. At the same time
j I j it should not be forgotten that such organisations have their
j j uses; they tend to curb rampant individualism, and to train
jjj their members practically in an elementary form of self-
jlj government. Mrs. Oliphant's picture of the working of
i j j some of the worst of the chapel organisations is not over-
jjj drawn. Ministers in the same position as her hero, Mr.
j j | Vincent, abound; to our knowledge the tale of their woes has
jjj at times been confidentially poured into the sympathetic
jjj ear. Some extracts from Salem Chapel are therefore ap-
jjj pended to illustrate the points which have been raised,
jjj The hero of the novel, Mr. Vincent, was educated at the
j j j Dissenting College at Homerton, and in the full flush of
j j I youthful enthusiasm went into the country to take charge of
jjl his first flock, the members of Salem Chapel at Carlingford.
j j Mr. Tozer, a butterman in the little town, was one of the
j j j principal deacons, and the following narrative sets forth how
j j the young minister the day after his arrival attended by in-
jjj vitation his first tea-party at the house of Mr. Tozer :—
j (j A TEA-PARTY AT THE HOUSE OP TOZER, THE DEACON.
j f j Tozer, who awaited the minister at the door, was fully habited iu the
j 11 overwhelming black suit and white tie, which produced so solemnising
* Blackwood and Son’s Florin Series of Standard Novels. London,
110 THE SPIBITUALIST. Maech 10, 1876.
an effect every Sanday at Chapel; and the other men of the party
were, with a few varieties, similarly attired. Bat the brilliancy of the
female portion of the company overpowered Mr. Vincent. Mrs. Tozer
herself sat at the end of her hospitable table, with all her best china
tea-service set out before her, in a gown and cap which G-range Lane
could not have furnished any rivals to. The brilliant hue of the one,
and the flowers and feathers of the other, would require a more elaborate
description than this chronicle has space for. Nor indeed in the partic¬
ular of dress did Mrs. Tozer do more than hold her own among the
guests who surrounded her. It was scarcely dark, and the twilight
softened down the splendours of the company, and saved the dazzled
eyes of the young pastor. He felt the grandeur vaguely as he came in
with a sense of reproof, seeing that he had evidently been waited for.
He said grace devoutly when the tea arrived and the gas was lighted,
and with dumb amaze gazed round him. Could these be the veritable
womankind of Salem Chapel ? Mr. Vincent saw bare shoulders and
flower-wreathed heads bending over the laden tea-table. He saw
pretty faces and figures not inelegant, remarkable among which was
Miss Phoebe’s, who had written him that pink note, and who herself was
pink all over—dress, shoulders, elbows, cheeks, and all. Pink—not red—
a softened youthful flush, which was by no means unbecoming to the
plump full figure which had not an angle anywhere. He was shy of ventur¬
ing upon those fine women who surely never could be Mrs. Brown, of
the Devonshire Dairy, and Mrs. Pigeon, the poulterer’s wife; whereas
Pigeon and Brown themselves were exactly like what they always were
on Sundays, if not, perhaps, a trifle graver and more depressed in their
minds.
“ Here’s a nice place for you, Mr. Vincent—quite the place for you,
where you can hear all the music, and see all the young ladies. For I
do suppose ministers, bein’ young, are like other young men,” said Mrs.
Tozer, drawing aside her brilliant skirts to make room for him on the
sofa. “ I have a son myself as is at college, and feel motherlike to those
as go in the same line. Sit you down comfortable, Mr. Vincent.
There ain’t one here, sir, I am proud to say, as grudges you the
best seat.’’
“ Oh, mamma, how could you think of saying such a thing? ” said
Phoebe, under her breath; “ to be sure, Mr. Vincent never could think
there was anybody anywhere that would be so wicked—and he the
minister,”
“ Indeed, my dear,” said Mrs. Pigeon, who was close by, “ not to
affront Mr. Vincent, as is deserving of our best respects, I’ve seen many
and many’s the minister I wouldn’t have given up my seat to ; and I
don’t misdoubt, sir, you’ve heard of such as well as we. There was
Mr. Bailey at Parson’s Green, now. He went and married a poor bit
of a governess, as common a looking creature as you could see, that set
herself up above the people, Mr. Vincent, and was too grand, sir, if
you’ll believe me, to visit the deacons’ wives. Nobody cares less than
me about them vain shows. What’s visiting, if you know the vally of
your time? Nothing but a laying up of judgment. But I wouldn’t be
put upon neither by a chit that got her bread out of me and my
husband’s hard earnins; and so I told my sister, Mrs. Tozer, as lives
at Parson’s Green.”
“ Poor thing!” said the gentler Mrs. Tozer, “ it’s hard lines on a
minister’s wife to please the congregation. Mr. Vincent here, he’ll
have to take a lesson. That Mrs. Bailey was pretty-looking, I must
allow ”
“ Sweetly pretty !” whispered Phoebe, clasping her plump pink
hands.
“ Pretty-looking! I don’t say anything against it,” continued her
mother; “but it’s hard upon a minister when his wife won’t take no
pains to please his flock. To have people turn up their noses at you
ain’t pleasant ”
“ And them getting their livin’ off you all the time,” cried Mrs.
Pigeon, clinching the milder speech.
“ But it seems to me,” said poor Vincent, “that a minister can no
more be said to get his living off you than any other man. He works
hard enough generally for what little he has. And really, Mrs. Tozer,
I’d rather not hear all these unfortunate particulars about one of my
brethren ’’
“ He ain’t one of the brethren now,” broke in the poulterer’s wife.
“ He’s been gone out o’ Parson’s Green this twelvemonths. Them
stuck-up ways may do with the Church folks as can’t help themselves,
but they’ll never do with us Dissenters. Not that we ain’t as glad as
can be to see you, Mr. Vincent, and I hope you’ll favour my poor house
another night like you’re favouring Mrs. Tozer’s. Mr. Tufton always
said that was the beauty of Carlmgford in our connection. Cheerful
folks and no display. No display, you know—nothing but a hearty
meetin’, sorry to part, and happy to meet again. Them’s our ways.
And the better you know us the better you’ll like us, I’ll be bound to
say. We don’t put it all on the surface, Mr. Vincent,” continued Mrs.
Pigeon, shaking out her skirts and expanding herself on her chair,
“ but it’s all real and solid; what we say we mean—and we don’t say
no more than we mean—and them’s the kind of folks to trust to wher¬
ever you go.”
Poor Vincent made answer by an inarticulate murmur, whether of
assent or dissent it was impossible to say; and inwardly, appalled,
turned his eyes towards his deacons, who, more fortunate than himself,
were standing all in a group together discussing chapel matters, and
wisely leaving general conversation to the fairer portion of the company.
The unlucky minister’s secret looks of distress awoke the interest and
sympathy of Phoebe, who sat in an interesting manner on a stool at her
mother’s side. “ Oh, mamma,” said that young lady, too bashful to
address himself directly, “ I wonder if Mr. Vincent plays or sings ?
There are some such nice singers here. Perhaps we might have some
music, if Mr. Vincent 
“ I don’t perform at all,” said that victim—“ not in any way; but I
am an exemplary listener. Let me take you to tbe piano,” 1
The plump Phoebe rose after many hesitations, and with a simper and
a blush and pretty air of fright, took the minister’s arm. After all, even
when the whole company is beneath a man’s level, it is easier to play
the victim under the supplies inflicted by a pretty girl than by two
mature matrons. Phoebe understood pretty well about her h's, and did
not use the double negative; and when she rose up rustling from her
low seat, the round, pink creature, with dimples all about her, was not
an unpleasant object of contemplation, Mr. Vincent listened to her
song with decorous interest.
One of the party, Mrs. Brown, gave her opinions to the
new minister of the affairs of Salem Chapel in this wise :—
SOCIAL CLAIMS UPON NONCONFORMIST PREACHERS.
“ If there's one thing I can’t abear in a chapel, it’s one set setting up
above the rest. But bein’ all in the way of business, except just the
poor folks, as is all very well in their place, and never interferes with
nothing, and don’t count, there’s nothing but brotherly love here, which
is a deal more than most ministers can say for their flocks. I’ve asked
a few friends to tea, Mr. Vincent, on next Thursday, at six. As I
haven’t got no daughters just out of a boarding-school to write notes for
me, will you take us in a friendly way, and just come without another
invitation? All our own folks, sir, and a comfortable evening; and
prayers, if you’ll be so good, at the end. I don’t like the new fashion,”
said Mrs. Brown, with a significant glance towards Mrsv Tozer, “ of
separatin’, like heathens, when all’s of one connection. We might
never meet again, Mr. Vincent. In the midst of life, you know, Sir.
You’ll not forget Thursday, at six.”
“ But, my dear Mrs. Brown, I am very sorry; Thursday is one of
the days I have specially devoted to study,” stammered forth the
unhappy pastor. “ What with the Wednesday meeting and the Friday
committee ”
Mrs. Brown drew herself up as well as the peculiarities of her form
permitted, and her roseate countenance assumed a deeper glow.
“ We’ve been in the chapel longer than Tozer,” said the offended
deaconness. “ We’ve never been backward in taking trouble, nor
spendin’ our substance, nor puttin’ our hands to every good work; and
as for makin’ a difference between one member and another, it’s what
we ain’t been accustomed to, Mr. Vincent. I’m a plain woman, and
speak my mind. Old Mr. Tufton was very particular to show no
preference. He always said, it never answered in a flock to show more
friendship to one nor another; and if it had been put to me, I wouldn’t
have said, I assure you, Sir, that it was us as was to be made the first
example of. If I haven’t a daughter fresh out of a boarding-school, I’ve
been a member of Salem five-and-twenty year, and had ministers in my
house many’s the day, and as friendly as if I were a duchess; and for
charities and such things, we’ve never been known to fail, though I say
it; and as for trouble ”
“ But I spoke of my study,” said the poor minister, as she paused,
her indignation growing too eloquent for words: “you want me to preach
on Sunday, don’t you ? and I must have some time, you know, to do
my work.”
“ Sir, said Mrs. Brown, severely, “ I know it for a fact that Mr.
Wentworth of St. Roque’s dines out five days in the week, and it don’t
do his sermons no injury; and when you go out to dinner, it stands to
reason it’s a different thing from a friendly tea.”
“ Ah, yes, most likely ! ” said Mr. Vincent, with a heavy sigh. “ I’ll
come, since you wish it so much; but,” added the unlucky young man,
with a melancholy attempt at a smile, “ you must not be too kind to me.
Too much of this kind of thing, you know, might have an effect ’’
Here he paused, inclined to laugh at his own powers of sarcasm. As
chance would have it, as he pointed generally to the scene before him,
the little wave of his hand seemed to Mrs. Brown to indicate the group
round the piano, foremost in which was Phoebe, plump and pink, and
full of dimples. The good mistress of the Devonshire Dairy gave her
head a little toss.
“ Ah!” said Mrs. Brown, with a sigh, “ you don’t know, you young
men, the half of the tricks of them girls that look so innocent. But I
don’t deny it’s a pleasant party,” added the deaconess, looking round on
the company in general with some complacency. “ But just you come
along our way on Thursday, at six, and judge for yourself if mine ain’t
quite as good; though I have not got no daughters, Mr. Vincent,” she
concluded, with severe irony, elevating her double chin and nodding her
flowery head.
The subdued minister made no reply; only deeper and deeper humili-
tation seemed in store for him. Was it he, the first-prize man of
Homerton, who was supposed to be already smitten by the pink charms
of Phoebe Tozer ? The unfortunate young man groaned in spirit, and,
seizing a sudden opportunity, plunged into the black group of
deacons, and tried to immerse himself in chapel business. But vain was
the attempt. He was recaptured and led back in triumph to Mrs.
Tozer’s sofa. He had to listen to more singing, and accept another
invitation to tea. When he got off at last, it was with a sensation of
dreadful dwindlement that poor Vincent crossed the street again to his
lonely abode. He knocked quite humbly at the big door, and with a
sensation of unclerical rage, wondered to himself whether the policeman
who met him knew he had been out to tea.
Mr. Vincent’s predecessor was an old 11 Mr. Tufton,” whose
position is thus described :—
THE SUPERANNUATED PASTOR.
“ Old Mr. Tufton declined in popularity, and impressed upon the
minds of his hearers those now-established principles about the unfitness
of old men for any important post, and the urgent necessity and duty
incumbent upon old clergymen, old generals, old admirals, &c.—every
aged functionary, indeed, except old statesmen—to resign in favour of
younger men, which have been, within recent years, so much enforced
Maech 10, 1876. THE STIHIT U ALIST. Ill
upon the world. To communicate this opinion to the old minister was
perhaps less difficult to Mr. Tozer and his brethren than it might have
been to men more refined and less practical; but it was an undeniable
relief to the managers of the chapel when grim Paralysis came mildly
in and gave the intimation in the manner least calculated to wound the
sufferer’s feelings. Mild but distinct was that undeniable warning. The
poor old minister retired, accordingly, with a purse and a presentation.
During Mr. Vincent’s first interview with his predecessor, j
the following conversation took place :—
THE NEW MINISTER IS TOLD WHAT TO EXPECT.
“ After a long pastorate like mine,” said the good man, blandly,
unconscious that dear Tozer had already begun to suggest a severance |
of that tie before gentle sickness did it for him, “ a congregation may |
be supposed to be a little unsettled—without any offence to you, my j
dear brother. If I could appear myself and show my respect to your
ministry, it would have a good effect, no doubt; but I am laid aside, j
laid aside, brother Vincent! I can only help you with my prayers.”
“ But dear, dear Mr. Tufton !” cried his wife ; “ bless you, the chapel
is twice as full as it was six months ago—and natural, too, with a nice
young man.”
*i My dear!” said the old minister, in reproof, “ Yes, quite natural—
curiosity about a stranger. But my young brother must not be elated;
nor discouraged when they drop off. A young pastor’s start in life is
attended by many trials. There is always a little excitement at first,
and an appearance of seats letting and the ladies very polite to you.
Take it easily, my dear brother! Don’t expect too much. In a year
or two—by-and-by, when things settle down—then you can see how it’s
going to be.”
“ But don’t you think it possible that things may never settle down,
but continue rising up instead ?” said Mr. Vincent, making a little
venture in the inspiration of the moment.
Mr. Tufton shook his head and raised his large hands slowly, with a
deprecating, regretful motion, to hold them over the fire. “ Alas! he’s
get the fever already,” said the old minister. “My dear young
brother, you shall have my experience to refer to always. You’re
always welcome to my advice. Dear Tozer said to me, just yesterday,
* You point out the pitfalls to him, Mr. Tufton, and give him your
advice, and I’ll take care that he shan’t go wrong outside,’ says dear
Tozer. Ah, an invaluable man 1”
“ But a little disposed to interfere, I think,” said Vincent, with an
irrestrainable inclination to show his profound disrelish of all the
advice which was about to be given him.
Mr. Tufton raised his heavy forefinger and shook it slowly. No—
no. Be careful, my dear brother. You must keep well with your
deacons. You must not take up prejudices against them. Dear Tozer
is a man of a thousand—a man of a thousand! Dear Tozer, if you
listen to him, will keep you out of trouble. The trouble he takes and
the money he spends for Salem Chapel is, mark my words, unknown—
and,” added the old pastor, awfully syllabling the long word in his
solemn bass, “ in-con-ceiv-able.”
“ He is a bore and an ass for all that,” said the daring invalid opposite,
with perfect equanimity, as if uttering the most patent and apparent of
truths. “ Don’t you give in to him, Mr. Vincent. A pretty business
you will have with them all,” she continued, dropping her knitting-
needles and lifting her pale-blue eyes, with their sudden green gleam, to
the face of the new-comer with a rapid perception of his character,
which, having no sympathy in it, but rather a certain mischievous and
pleased satisfaction in his probable discomfiture, gave anything but
comfort to the object of her observation. “ You are something new for
them to pet and badger. I wonder how long they’ll be killing Mr.
Vincent. Papa’s tough, but you remember, mamma, they finished off
the other man before us in two years.”
“Oh, hush, Adelaide, hush! you’ll frighten Mr. Vincent,” cried the
kind little mother, with uneasy looks; “ when he comes to see us and
cheer us up—as I am sure is very kind of him—it is a shame to put all
sorts of things in his head, as papa and you do. Never mind Adelaide,
Mr. Vincent, dear. Do your duty, and never fear anybody: that’s
always been my maxim, and I’ve always found it answer. Not going
away, are you ? Dear, dear! and we’ve had no wise talk at all, and
never once asked for your poor dear mother—quite well, I hope ?—and
Miss Susan ? You should have them come and see you, and cheer you
up. "Well, good morning, if you must go; don’t be long before you
come again.”
“ And, my dear young brother, don’t take up any prejudices,” inter¬
posed Mr. Tufton, in tremulous bass, as he pressed Vincent’s half-
reluctant fingers in that large soft flabby ministerial hand. Adelaide
added nothing to these valedictions; but when she too had received his
leave-taking, and he had emerged from the shadow of the geraniums,
the observer paused once more in her knitting, “ This one will not hold
out two years,” said Adelaide.
Those who wish to follow the varied fortunes of the unfortu¬
nate Mr. Vincent, must do so by consulting the pages of the
interesting novel itself. The minister being too intelligent
for his flock, dissensions of course arose, Mr. Pigeon, the
poulterer, and Mrs. Pigeon his wife, being the ringleaders
against Mr. Vincent. A church meeting wras held surrep¬
titiously, in the absence of the minister, at which Pigeon led
the attack, but the young minister found a warm supporter
in the faithful Tozer, who on this occasion made that famous
speech which immortalised him in the connection, and for
which the Homerton students in their enthusiasm voted a
piece of plate to the worthy butterman. In the course of
his speech he said »
MR. TOZER’S OPINIONS.
“ My friends, tbe pastor as is the subject of tbis meeting”—here
Tozer sank his voice, and looked round with a certain solemnity—
“ Mr. Vincent, ladies and gentlemen, as has doubled the seatholders
in Salem in six months’ work, and, I make bold to say, brought one-
half of you as is here to be regular at chapel, and take an interest in
the connection—Mr. Vincent, I say, as you’re all collected here to
knock down in the dark, if so be as you are willing to be dictated to—
the same, ladies and gentlemen, as we’re a-discussing of to-night—told
us all, it ain’t so very long ago, in the crowdedest meeting as I ever
see, in the biggest public hall in Carlingford—as we weren’t keeping up
to the standard of the old Nonconformists, nor showing, as we ought,
what a voluntary church could do.. It ain’t pleasant to hear of, for us
as thinks a deal of ourselves; but that is what the pastor said, and
there was not a man as could contradict it. Now, I ask you, ladies
and gentlemen, what is the reason? It’s all along of this as we’re
doing to-night. We’ve got a precious young man, as Mr. Tufton tells
you, and a clever young man, as nobody tries for to deny; and there
ain’t a single blessed reason on this earth why he shouldn't go on as
he’s been a-doing, till, Salem being crowded out to the doors, as it’s
been two Sundays back, we’d have had to build a new chapel, and took
a place in our connection as we’ve never yet took in Carlingford!”
Mr. Tozer paused to wipe his heated forehead, and ease his excited
bosom with a long breath; his audience paused with him, taking
breath with the orator in a slight universal rustle, which is the most
genuine applause. The worthy butterman resumed in a lowered and
emphatic tone.
“ But it ain’t to be,” said Tozer, looking round him with a tragic
frown, and shaking his head slowly. “ Them as is always a-finding
fault, and always a-setting up to dictate, has set their faces again’ all
that. He’s to be took down out of his pulpit, and took to pieces behind
his back, and made a talk and a scandal of to the whole connection !
It’s not his preaching as he’s judged by, nor is dooty to the sick and
dyin\ nor any of them things as he was called to be pastor for; but it’s
if he’s seen going to one house more nor another, or if he calls often
enough on this one or t’other, and goes to all the tea-drinkings. My
opinion is,” said To^er, suddenly breaking off into jocularity, “as a
young man as maybe isn’t a marrying man, and anyhow can’t marry
I more nor one, ain’t in the safest place at Salem tea-drinkings; but
(j that’s neither here nor there. If the ladies haven’t no pity, us men
II can’t do nothing in the matter; but what I say is this,” continued the
11 butterman, once more becoming solemn; “to go for to judge the pastor
(i of a flock, not by the dooty he does to his flock, but by the times he
?! calls at one house or another, and the way he makes hisself agreeable
n at one place or another, ain’t a thing to be done by them as prides.
(| themselves on being Christians and Dissenters. It’s not like Chris-
h tians—and if it’s like Dissenters the more’s the pity. It’s mean, that’s
jr| what it is,” cried Tozer, with fine scorn; “it’s like a parcel of old
M women, if the ladies won’t mind me saying so. It’s beneath us as has
j/j liberty of conscience to fight for, and has to set an example before the
i j Church folks, as don’t know no better. But it’s what is done in our
Ijl connection,” added the good deacon with pathos, shaking his forefinger
\)\ mournfully at the crowd. “When there’s a young man as is clever
i (| and talented, and fills a chapel, and gives the connection a chance of
i j standing up in the world as it ought, here’s some one as jumps up and
in says, ‘ The pastor don’t come to see me,’ says he—‘ the pastor don’t do
;(j his duty—he ain’t the man for Salem.’ And them as is always in every
j ! flock ready to do a mischief, takes it up; and there’s talk of a change,
m and meetings is called, and—here we are ! Yes, ladies and gentlemen,
i|i here we are! We’ve called a meeting, all in the dark, and give him
i ji no chance of defending himself; and them as is at the head of this
in movement is calling upon us to dismiss Mr. Vincent. But let me tell
jU you,” continued Tozer, lowering his voice with a dramatic intuition,
i|! and shaking his forefinger still more emphatically in the face of
W; the startled audience, “ that this ain’t no question of dismissing Mr.
| | Vincent; it’s a matter of disgusting Mr. Vincent, that’s what it
j>| is—it’s a matter of turning another promising young man away
;(! from the connection, and driving him to throw it all up. You mark
iji what I say. It’s what we’re doing most places, us Dissenters; them
I I as is talented and promisin’, and can get a better living working for the
m world than working for the chapel, and won’t give in to be worried
iji about calling here and calling there—we’re a-driving of them out of the
|M connection, that’s what we’re doing ! I could reckon up as many as six
K! or seven as has been drove off already; and I ask you, ladies and
i|l gentlemen, what’s the good of subscribing and keeping up of colleges
j?i and so forth, if that’s how you’re a-going to serve every clever young
i(| man as trusts hisself to be your pastor? Them as is content to lose the
i) : best preaching within a hundred miles, because the minister don’t call
j) i on two or three families in Salem, not as often as they would like to
Kj see him,” said Tozer, with trenchant sarcasm, “can put down their
i|j names again’ Mr. Vincent; but for me, and them as stands by me, we
|)| ain’t a-going to give in to no such dictation : we ain’t a-going to set up
Kj ourselves against the spread of the Gospel, and the credit o’ the con-
m nection, and toleration and freedom of conscience, as we’re bound to
if fight for! If the pastor don’t make hisself agreeable, I can put up
K| with that—I can; but I ain’t a-going to see a clever young man drove
|>| away from Salem, and the sittings vacant, and the chapel falling to
|( j ruin, and the Church folks a-laughing and a-jeering at us, not for all the
m deacons in the connection, nor any man in Carlingford. And this I say
i)j for myself and for all as stands by me ! ”
| j The last sentence was lost in thunders of applause. The “Salem
||| folks ” stamped with their feet, knocked the floor with their umbrellas,
m clapped their hands in a furore of enthusiasm and sympathy. Their
lip pride was appealed to; nobody could bear the imputation of being
THE SPItfciTlTAtiST.
March 10, 1876.
112
numbered among the two or three to whom the minister had not paid I)
sufficient attention. All the adherents of the Pigeon party deserted that I)
luckless family sitting prominent upon their bench, with old Mrs. |j
Tufton at the corner joining as heartily as her over-shoes would permit i>
in the general commotion. There they sat, a pale line of faces, sepa- j l
rated, by their looks of dismay and irresponsive silence, from the K
.applauding crowd, cruelly identified as “them as is always ready to i)
dictate.” I . I(
On the following evening Mr. Vincent was present at a I
meeting at which he refused to preside. So likewise were |
the Pigeons, <c plotting the Temperance-hall and an opposi- i
tion preacher in their treacherous hearts.” But their pastor, |
who was received with an overwhelming welcome from every- j j
body else, threw the meeting into dismay by closing his |
engagement with the Salem Chapel people for ever. jj
At present we have no organisations of the Salem Chapel |
type in the Spiritual movement, or at all events, if there be I
any such, they are not yet in a sufficiently flourishing condi- I
tion to engage a settled speaker, or trance medium, or per- j
manent paid officer. The possibility remains however that such j
organisations may spring up in the future, and it is evident i
that if they are to work harmoniously they must have minis- j
ters but little superior to the average attainments of the I
members or the evils pointed out by Mrs. Oliphant will be j
rampant. Will it be possible for Spiritualists at large to do j j
anything to remove the influence which such organisations j j
have in lowering the standard of intelligence and ability of HI
public men? Perhaps the existence of influences such as |)|
those so well described by Mrs. Oliphant, explains the fact |||
that the average intelligence of pulpit orations is below the jjj
average intelligence of the educated male mind of this 11
country. I |
The foremost principle proved to those who carefully study j j
the facts laid down in what has already been said, is this:— jj]
That the chief executive officer of any organisation founded i |
on such principles as we have considered, cannot be much I |
above the average level in education, intelligence, and cul- j j
ture of the governing representatives, without the produc- j j
tion of internal inharmony. Hence the efficiency of an j j
organisation depends chiefly upon the culture of its indi- j j
yidual constituents. j j
SPIRITUALISM AS VIEWED BY VARIOUS PHILOSOPHERS. ] j
Three weeks ago a public meeting was held in Boston, jjj
U.S., in honour of Dr. H. F. Gardner, one of the best and jjj
oldest workers in the cause of Spiritualism in America. Mr. j jj
Epes Sargent, the well known American author, was invited i j j
to be present, and he has forwarded us the following copy jjj
of his reply, which was addressed to Dr. A. H. Richardson, jjj
the chairman of the meeting, and which contains statements jjj
of historical interest:—
I regret that the state of my health prevents my being jjj
present at the social gathering, complimentary to “the j j
veteran Spiritualist, Dr. H. F. Gardner,” this evening. He jjj
was one of the earliest to recognise and accept the great I j
truths of modern Spiritualism. Seeing their vast signi- Iff
ficance, the immense importance to the interests of the race jjj
of a scientific verification of the disputed fact of man’s jjj
immortality, he at once made every other pursuit subordinate j j
to that of prosecuting investigations into the spiritual pheno- j j
mena, and proclaiming the results to the world in public j(j
speeches and discussions, in addresses at popular gatherings, j I
in communications to the press, and in testifying, in various jjj
ways, to the truth, as opportunity invited. Of course he jjj
knew at the start, as well as he knows now, that devotion jjj
to an unpopular cause is not the road to worldly aggrandise- jjj
ment. A truth which four of the leading professors of Harvard j j
University, chosen as a committee of investigation, denounced j j
as a “stupendous delusion,” was not likely to be either jjj
popular, or fashionable, ora source of profit in this com- jj
munity. jjj
Before this committee, Dr. Gardner went with several j j
mediums, and did his best to instil into the professorial j j
mind and heart a little of the spirit of rational investigation j j
in a case where a new order of phenomena, claiming peculiar j j
conditions for their production, were to be manifested. But j j
it would not do. The learned gentlemen rose in their jjj
j demands for conditions of their own as phenomena took
j place. It was soon apparent that the whole question had
been prejudged; and Spiritualism was heedlessly stigmatized,
j though the promised report of the committee, so swift to
denounce what they had not comprehended or rightly inves¬
tigated, has not appeared up to this day. Dr. Gardner bore
himself gallantly and discreetly throughout the whole affair.
All that he claimed, and much more, has since been
, repeatedly proved beyond all question. Indeed it is still
j being proved every day, in the four quarters of the globe ;
1 and the denunciations of the Harvard professors will be
remembered only in association with the refusal of certain
professors in Galileo’s day to look through his telescope.
It is of very little consequence now what may be said of
our facts by any professor; but it is a noteworthy circumstance
that three eminent professors, with a European reputation as
physicists—Perty of Berne University, and Wagner and
Butlerof of the University of St. Petersburg—accept and
proclaim the truth of what Harvard, in her rash eagerness to
put down the “ babes and simpletons,” tried to blacken with
a stigma. Thus does the whirligig of Time bring about its
revenges!
I am no longer disposed to argue mere questions of fact
either with physicists or speculative critics. “We cannot
argue,” says Prof. Perty, “ with those who, in complete
ignorance of the subject/think they can annihilate facts with
the terrible name deception, and who prove to their own satis¬
faction from natural laws which in no way affect the question,
the f impossibility ’ of mystic phenomena.”
As for those opponents who, in their simplicity, ask,
“ Well supposing the facts to be genuine, what good can we
hope from them ?” I can only commend all such unreflecting
persons to what Shakespeare calls “ the sessions of sweet
silent thought,” wherein they may perchance interrogate
their own souls whether a fact like the return of a human
spirit from the unseen world is an altogether profitless and
barren consideration for a mind rightly receptive ?
As prophetic of what we may expect from Spiritualism as
it developes and spreads, and its highest teachings prevail—
teachings which in conjunction with all that physical science
can reveal to us will be simply a formulated expression of
the laws of our highest welfare, as destined to supersede all
that is false and transitory in human dogmatisms, laws, and
systems—let me call your attention to a passage which I
have never seen quoted as directly bearing on those truths
which Dr. Gardner and the rest of us have been trying to
propagate. It is a passage from Lessing, the illustrious
German author, and was written a hundred years ago. He
is speaking of the education of the race, of its ethical pro¬
gress and purification, in which he fully believed. For him
the education of mankind is freedom; the transformation of
certain religious and moral truths into truths of reason; a
state of things when man will do good for the sake of the
good, and laws and social customs will be made to conform
to facts of Nature as manifest in man’s highest develop¬
ment. In a sublime apostrophe, which every impatient
Spiritualist, who wonders why Spiritualism has not accom¬
plished more than it seems to have done, will do well to
ponder, Lessing exclaims : “ Pass on with thy silent step,
Eternal Providence! Only let me not, on account of its
silence, doubt Thy progress, even if Thou shouldst some¬
times appear to go backwards. It is not true that the
straight line is always the shortest. Thou hast so much to
take with Thee in Thy eternal way ! So many side steps to
make!”
And then, as if with the prevision of a seer, he distinctly
recognised the advent of Modern Spiritualism, and the issues
to which a knowledge of immortality must ultimately con¬
duct the human race, Lessing exclaims: “ It will come, it
will certainly come—that time of perfect development, when
man, the more firmly he becomes convinced of a better future,
will have less necessity to borrow from that future the motives of
his actions; when he will do good because it is good, not
because he expects arbitrary rewards, which were formerly
designed merely to fix and strengthen his inconstant recog¬
nition of the inner and better rewards of virtue. It will surely
come—the era of that new gospel”
To spread the light of that “new gospel” (new in giving
March 10, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 113
palpable confirmation of the one essential truth in the old
gospels, and in casting off all that is unessential), and to
hasten its efficacy, has been for more than a quarter of a
century the life-work of Dr. Gardner; and it is one which we
believe he will look back upon centuries hence with a satis¬
faction which few other worldly prizes could inspire. The
rewards have not been such as to impress the imagination
of the many ; there have been no din of trumpets, no leading
paragraphs in newspapers, no glitter of worldly gifts; but
our friend has earned what, in that world of realities, where
all shams dwindle and are laid bare, and all treasures of good
deeds, good thoughts, and noble strivings are multiplied and
unveiled to angel eyes, will be the credentials of an earnest
and honoured servant of the most vital truth that can interest
a human being.
TRUTH.
[ The following communication, given through writing medium-
ship, Feb. 2§th ult., does not come in its place in the Spirit
Teachings frequently published in these pages, though it pro¬
ceeds from the same source. It contains, however, so much
that seems to be of value now, and is, moreover, so good
an example of the present tone which the communications
{never intermitted) have assumed, that I print it as it
stands.—M.A., Oxon.]
THE PRESENT A TIME OF TRIAL AND CONFLICT.
The blessing of the Blessed One rest on you. We have
opportunity now which may not recur of answering some of
your inquiries, and conveying to you of some necessary truth.
From letters which you have received of late you will be led
to see that the times of trouble and distress which we have
warned you of are expected by others as well as by us. Be
prepared for trouble : it will assuredly come. It is necessary
that afflictions come. Jesus knew and taught that. It is
necessary for the training of the soul. It is as necessary as
physical discipline for the body. No deep knowledge is to
be had without it. None is permitted to scale the glorious
heights but after discipline of sorrow. The key of knowledge
is in spirit-hands, and none may wrest it to himself but the
earnest soul which is disciplined by trial. Bear that in
mind.
Ease and luxury are the pleasant paths in which the soul
lingers and dreams away the summer day. Self-denial, self-
sacrifice, self-discipline are the upward tracks, thorn-vext and
rocky, which lead to the heights of knowledge and power.
Study the life of Jesus and be wise.
Moreover, the present is a time of hard and bitter conflict
between us and our foes. We have told you that you feel
the reflex of that struggle. It accompanies every great
development of Divine Truth. It is, as it were, the darkness
that precedes the dawn : the gloom which is the pre-requisite
for growth: the period of trial wherein the earnest soul is
purified. “ Your hour and the power of darkness,” said
Jesus as he agonised in Gethsemane. It is so now: and it
will not pass lightly. The cup must be drained.
THIS IS INCIDENT TO A PERIOD OF NEW REVELATION.
As each revelation of the Supreme grows old, it is overlaid
by man’s errors, and loaded with his inventions. It dies
gradually, and loses its hold on men. Bit by bit human
error is pared away, unable to stand the shock of criticism,
and men’s faith is shaken, and they ask with old Pilate,
—What is truth? Then comes the answer in the new birth
of a higher revelation. The throes of its birth shake the
world, and around its cradle the powers of the Spiritual
world contend. Great is the dust and din of the contention.
As the light dawns upon the world, and the clouds lift,
the watchers, whose eyes are spiritually opened to discern
the signs of the times, they who stand on the watch-towers
to catch the first gleams, these are ready, and welcome with
joy the break of day. “Joy comes with the morning.”
“ Sorrow and sighing flee away.” The terrors of the night,
“ the powers of darkness,” are past. But not for all. Full
many there will always be for whom no ray of light is
visible till the sun has gained his meridian and splendour.
They slumber on, heedless of the light that is breaking on
the world.
THERE WILL ALWAYS BE DEGREES OF PROGRESS AMONG MEN.
Hence the days will never come to your world when all
equally will know of the truth. There will always be many
for whom it has no charms, for whom it would be fraught
with danger to tread the upward paths of progress, and who
prefer the beaten track worn by the feet of those who have
trod it through the ages past. There will be such always,
even as there will be souls who catch the foregleams that
herald the dawn. So do not hope that the open vision will
ever be the same to all. No such dream of equality is pos¬
sible. Nor is it more desirable than possible. To some
are given powers that can safely pry into mysteries which
others must perforce avoid. These must be the leaders and
guides among men. And those who are so called, are they
on whom lies the most solemn duty of personal preparation
and earnest, life-long struggle with self, until it is domi¬
nated and subdued, and the free soul soars untrammelled.
We have long since told you of this. See you heed it.
TRUTH IS MANY-SIDED.
Do not be discouraged that so much of what most believe
as truth seems to you hollow and uncertain. It is so. There
are divers degrees of truth. From the many-sided crystal
gleams are shot off in many directions. And it is not
every soul that can receive even one ray unclouded. To few,
very few, comes more than a stray glimpse, and even that is
filtered through many a medium, until its clearness is all
dimmed. It must needs be so. Hence the varied views of
I truth. Hence the divergent notions, the errors, the mistakes,
j the fallacies that pass current among you. Men think they
| see a momentary gleam. They grasp some view, enlarge on
| it, add to it, develop it, until the tiny light is quenched, and
I what was a ray of truth is distorted and destroyed. And so
; the truth is maligned, whereas it should be the imperfection
! of the intervening medium that is blamed.
THE PUREST TRUTH IS ESOTERIC.
Or, to take another view. That which came as the answer
j to the yearnings of some aspiring soul is deemed to be of
| universal application. The truth was so beautiful, so ennob-
j! ling, so pure and holy in its essence, that it must surely be
Iso to all. And the jewel is dragged out from casket,
and prepared for open exhibition. The lily is plucked from
its stem, and paraded before men. And it loses its purity;
its vitality diminishes ; it withers and dies ; and he to whom
it was so fair, so lovely, wonders to find that it loses its fresh¬
ness in the heat and dust of the world’s busy strife. He
marvels that what was so pure and true to him in the
! heart’s secluded temple should seem tame and out of place
j when advertised to the world. He learns, if he is wise, that
I the dew of Hermon is distilled in the silence and solitude
| of the heart; that the flower springs up in the gloom of
| night, and withers beneath the noon-day beams; that truth,
11 the holiest and purest, comes direct from spirit to spirit, and
: may not be proclaimed on the world’s house-top.
Doubtless there are coarse views of truth, rude blocks
j which man has hewn, and which all may use alike. These
I I are the foundation stones which every builder must use.
! | But the richest and purest gems must be preserved in the
i i spirit-shrine, and be gazed upon in silence and alone. So
! i when John the Seer told of the jewelled walls and pearly gates
| ! of the Heavenly City, he spoke of the outer truths which all
| | must see; but in the inner temple he placed nor jewel nor
j | purest ray of light, but only the Presence and the Glory of
|j| the Lord.
Marvellous it is that you do not see this. That which to
11 you is Divine Truth is only that atom, that speck of the
! ! whole unbroken circle which has been cast off in answer to
| | your cry. You needed it, and it came. To you it is perfec-
| | tion ; it is God. To another it would be incomprehensible,
| | without a voice to answer to his cry, without any beauty that
ill he should desire it. You cannot parade it if you would. It
I would die, and its hidden charm would make no convert. It
! is yours and yours alone, a special creation for a special want,
! an answer from the great Spirit to the yearning aspiration of
j your soul.
This Truth will always be esoteric. It must be so; for
only to the soul that is prepared can it be given. Its
i fragrance is too evanescent for daily common use. Its subtle
I perfume is shed only in 'the inner chamber of the spirit.
1i4
THE SPlElTtALIS^.
March 10, 1876.
Kemember this; and remember too that violence is done to |
Truth by forcing it on unprepared minds, while harm, great
and far-reaching, is done to those who cannot receive what is jj
a revelation to you but not to them. |j
THE PURSUIT OF TRUTH FOR ITS OWN SAKE, MAN’S NOBLEST AIM;
Moreover, remember that the pursuit of truth for its own 11
sake as the altogether lovely and desirable end of life is the jj
highest aim of spirit on your plane of being, higher than j
earth’s ambitions, nobler than any work that man can do. jj
We do not now take note of any of the vulgar aims that fill j
up human life. The struggles and ambitions that exercise |
mankind, born of vanity, nurtured in jealousy, and ending j
in disappointment—these are plain to view as Sodom apples, i
But there is a subtler temptation to more refined souls—that |
of doing good to their fellows and adding another stone to |
the cairn that the pioneers of the past have raised. To them |
comes the desire to proclaim in accents of enthusiasm some |
truth which has taken hold upon their lives. They are pos- j
sessed with it; the fire burns within them, and they speak. |
It may be a noble word they utter, and, if it meets the j
needs of men, it is re-echoed and taken up by other souls like- |
minded, and developed till men are stirred and benefited by | j
it. But it may be the reverse. The Truth, so true to one, is !
true to him alone, and his voice is the voice of one crying in j
the wilderness, a proclaimer of idle tales. He speaks in vain, I <
and it had been well that he had saved his energies for the jj
quest of truth, and have learned more before he spake to men. H
It is well to teach, but better still to learn : nor is it im- i |
possible to do both. Only remember that learning must j]
precede teaching: and be sure that the truth is one that j1
man needs. The student who dives deep into the mysteries j!
that enshrine Truth will not recklessly violate the seclusion j'
in which alone she dwells at ease. He will tell of her j
beauties, and proclaim to those who have ears to hear the |
words of healing which his inner sense has caught from her j
lips: but there will always be to him a sacred reserve, a j
holy silence, an esoteric revelation too pure, too dear for I
utterance.
[In answer to some important question it was written:—]
Nay: you will be informed in time. We may not save you |
the exercises which is part of your discipline. Be content |
to walk in the path. It leads direct to truth: but you must i
tread it in care and pain. We have directed you to it because
it is well for you to garner up the wisdom of the past, and
to learn of those who are gone before you. We foresaw long-
ago that those who should faithfully pursue the study of the
intercourse between our world and yours, would receive rude
shocks from the follies and falsities that cluster round the
subject in its most exoteric aspect. We looked with con¬
fidence for the time when these should force themselves into
prominence, and we prepared for it. We would teach you
that there are, and ever must be, two sides to this science, jl
as there were in the mysteries of the ages past. Having jj
passed the one, it is necessary that you penetrate the H
other.
To this end you must learn who and what are those who j
do communicate with men. Not otherwise can you read j
aright the riddle that now perplexes you. You must know !
how and under what conditions truth can be had : and how |
error and deceit, and frivolity and folly may be warded off. i
All this man must know if he is safely to meddle with our j
world. And when he has learned this, or while he is learning i j
it, he must see, too, that on himself depends most or all of | j
the success. Let him crush self, purify his inmost spirit, | (
driving out impurity as a plague, and elevating his aims to jj
their highest possible: let him love Truth as his Deity, to \ j
which all else shall bow ; let him follow it as his sole aim, \ i
careless whither the quest may lead him, and round him shall j
circle the Messengers of the Most High, and in his inmost j
soul he shall see light. + Imperatoe.
A MATERIALISATION SEANCE IN LIVERPOOL.
In the course of a letter published in The Spiritualist of February
18th, Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester, said :—-
“In a particular case, this has been done by one not a paid medium
at all. I was invited to Liverpool last week by Mr. Martheze (who was
staying a few days with me) and we went and saw the medium and had
a seance ; Dr. Hitch man and others were there. Shortly a male figure
in white appeared, and he showed us his medium in trance; then he
closed the cabinet curtains and shortly appeared again with a female
with long ringlets; again I asked to see the medium, and again all the
company saw him and the two figures at the same time in subdued
light.”
Since then Mr. Blackburn has sent us the following additional par¬
ticulars in relation to that sSance :—
“ The walls forming or enclosing the cabinet were of solid brickwork,
the roof of the cabinet was of black calico, two feet from the ceiling;
the floor was carpeted, and the carpet fastened down all round with
nails, and the boards of the floor were on solid earth, therefore there
was no trap-door or cellar under, and no possible entrance into that
room, for we sat with our backs against the entrance door all the time.
Still, forms kept appearing besides those named above, and a gentleman
sceptic went purposely from Manchester afterwards, to examine the
room, but could detect nothing whatever different from the above-stated
facts. What is the good of moulds, as stated in a recent issue of The
Spiritualist, when you can seethe reality ?”
BLACKWOOD’S MAGAZINE ON SPIRITUALISM.
Blackwood's Magazine for March contains a lengthy article, entitled
“ Powers of the Air,” the subject of which is Spiritualism. The
writer confesses that he has never in his life attended a seance, or
witnessed any manifestations, yet that he considers the testimony in
favour of its truth so strong that it cannot be set aside “ except on still
stronger testimony which can show the first to be mistaken,” and
which is not yet forthcoming. He then proceeds to give a detailed
account of the experiences of a lady who had resided in the same
hotel with himself in a foreign city, where a well-known medium had
also been staying. This lady had witnessed the sudden mounting of
the table towards the ceiling, “ apropos to nothing,” and had seen the
lamps on that same table not slide off when the table greatly inclined from
the vertical; she also felt her dress pulled, and on looking down saw
a hand, the medium being at some distance from her; afterwards the
hand came and pressed hers, and she recognised the touch. It was,
moreover, accompanied by a voice which whispered the two Christian
names of a son departed some time before. The essayist finds no
difficulty in believing such things from credible witnesses, seeing that
every orthodox Christian believes in similar occurrences, as narrated
in the Scriptures. The question in his mind is, what sort of spirits are
these that lift tables and pull dresses ? This leads to the suggestion
that it would be better for those who interest themselves in Spiritualism,
instead of testing the mediums in order to see whether they cheat,
“ to try the disposition, powers and conditions of the spirits, and let
the world know the results of their experiments.”
A further consideration is, if evil spirits abound, the desirability of
restoring the doctrine of the existence of a devil, which must hang
together with the belief in a personal God. Further, it is suggested
that the facts of Spiritualism may help to give some explanation of
dreams, and visions by sick people, since it is likely that disturbed
physical conditions are not so much the cause of the apparitions, as
that they fit the organs “for the perception of beings not ordinarily
apparent to human sight.” Divination and witchcraft, and many
obscure passages of Scripture, are allowed to be capable of explanation
by the “records of eye-witnesses and contemporaries, which should
have more weight than a philosophic idea or axiom which a man may
have taken into his mind.” The writer in Blackwood furnishes one
more proof of the possibility of reconciling the facts of primitive
Christianity and modern Spiritualism from the starting point that
ancient and modern witnesses may be considered to be about equally
reliable. Judging from the style of a large portion of Spiritualistic
literature, the essayist is justified in taking this stand. And the time
will soon come when others will have to accept the facts of Spiritualism
as they now accept nearly all the facts of science ; that is, at second¬
hand. All cannot be experimentalists ; there must be the teacher and
the taught; life is not long enough for truth to be perpetually dis¬
covered anew. For the present, however, much personal research is
necessary until Spiritualism becomes firmly established as a science, and
its laws are as well understood as those of physics and mathematics.
Before quitting this subject, it may be well to point out, as on several
previous occasions, that the abuse showered upon the new truth of
Spiritualism does not, as a rule, come from the highest and most cul¬
tured section of the press. The Times, for instance, instead of pouring
forth the vials of its wrath, sent a special correspondent to examine
the phenomena, and printed an article about six columns long, telling
the truth in respect thereto. Nature, the organ of the scientific world,
has never committed itself by saying anything against Spiritualism. In
the present instance we have Blackwood, one of the oldest and most
intellectual of our magazines, admitting the facts in an honourable
way. Some of the country newspapers, and the smaller fry of the
London press, who do not possess the means of learning much of what
is going on in society, are most prolific in generating slander in rela¬
tion to this subject. Mr. Charles White, the secretary to the late
Marylebone Association of Spiritualists, once stated in public that he
had found that the Times treated unpopular movements with more
fairness than the newspapers which circulate among people of lower
average intelligence.
Next Sunday week Mr. J. J. Morse will give a trance lecture at the
Athenaeum Hall, Birmingham.
The entertainment at the East End of London last Thursday, on
behalf of Mr. Cogman’s work in that locality, passed off pleasantly.
Miss Chandos presided.
March 10, 1876.
THE SEIEITtiALIST. 115
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
On Thursday evening last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting
of the Psychological Society, held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-
square, London, Mr. E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-law, presided.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
SPIKIT IDENTITY.
Mr. F. K. Munton, honorary secretary, then read a letter from Mr.
R. J. Creasy, who set forth that he was an independent, idle and
delicate man, caring for no one’s opinion, but desirous only of knowing
the truth. Some time ago he called on Mr. Foster, the test medium,
and at his request wrote unseen to him the names of some dead persons,
after which Foster said that spirits were present. Sounds were then
heard coming from the table. The names of William and Edward
Layton, both departed friends of his own, were then given to him by
Foster ; he had written Edward’s name but not that of William. Foster
then told him that there was a Welshman present who at once
wrote “ Dear Mr. Creasy.” “ Your name is Creasy then ?” said
Foster. He had not given Foster his name when he entered. That
Welshman wrote things which nobody but himself could know. He
asked Foster how he knew that the man was Welsh; the reply was
that he (Foster) was clairaudient, and the spirit had told him so. He
(Mr. Creasy) was not a Spiritualist but a searcher after truth ; he was in
Mr. Foster’s presence between ten and fifteen minutes altogether, and
no mistake was made by the medium during the interview.
THE TRAVELLING OP THE SPIRIT DURING THE SLEEP OP THE BODY.
Mr. Munton next read a letter, the author of which did not wish his
name to be published, but gave his name and address in confidence to
the council of the society. The writer said that he first met the lady
who is now his wife at a public institution at which he was head master,
in the year 1872. Their intended marriage was concealed from those
of her friends who were connected with the school when she left it,
and for some time after her departure she did not write to any of them.
Six months after their marriage he was reading in bed. His wife
suddenly woke and said, “ I have been to .” She then narrated
a vivid dream she had had, so vivid that from time to time she frequently
dwelt upon every point of it. Three months later she went to visit her
mother, and found there a letter from one of her friends asking
whether Miss  (his wife) was alive or dead. The letter had
been waiting a long time and the date agreed with the time of the
dream. His wife had dreamt that she was in the room with four
females, two of them friends, and the other twojstrangers to her. She
saw one of them turn off the gas, she followed two of them into her
bedroom, and she said, “ Bessie, put some things in a box. Bessie, let
us be friends.” He inquired into the matter, without giving any in¬
formation about the dream, and was told by a lady that she and her
friend Bessie had gone to bed one Sunday night, when suddenly Bessie
screamed and said, “ I have just seen . She touched me and
said—‘ Let us be friends.’ ” They accordingly came to the conclusion
that Lshe was dead, and they wrote to the only address of hers they
had. It was remarkable that his wife had always been on good terms
with Bessie, so there appeared to be no special reason for saying, “ Let
us be friends.” He further ascertained thatthere were two new comers
on the premises, as well as two of the former friends of his wife. The
two females she saw had occupied the same room.
MESMERIC PHENOMENA.
Mr. G. M. Tagore said that years ago, when he was studying for the
bar at Worthing, he saw some remarkable experiments performed by a
Pole of the name of Zamoski. Zamoski had fine brilliant eyes, calculated
to electrify ladies first and gentlemen afterwards; he had a piercing
gaze. He witnessed Zamoski’s experiments at the Montague Hall, and
at first thought that there was some confederacy in the matter ; he how¬
ever talked the subject over with the Rev. Mr. Reade, who
had an observatory at Worthing, and who was a clever scientific
man, although science and theology did not go together very
often. Mr. Reade brought a schoolmaster with him to see the ex¬
periments ; the schoolmaster resisted for a long time, but at last against
his will he was overpowered by the mesmeric influence, so that when a
glass of water was given into his hands, the mesmerist made him believe
that it was beer fresh from the cask. He was completely under the
influence. Zamoski then demesmerised him, and the man testified that
he did not know what he had been about. It was within the province of
the Psychological Society to discover what was this mysterious power
which man possessed over man. What was the mysterious power by
which Luther revolutionised the whole Christian world, and Knox re¬
volutionised a section of it in another way ?
INSTINCT AND REASON.
Mr. F. K. Munton next read a paper by Mr. C. Staniland Wake, on
“ The Comparison of the Mental Faculties of Men and Animals.”
Mr. Tagore, who opened the discussion upon this paper, asked where
instinct ended and reason began ? There was no doubt, he added, that
elephants and dogs reasoned to a large extent; the elephants who
hauled timber in Burmah adapted means to ends in a most reasonable
way. A dog that rescued his master from danger also adapted means
to ends. The bee, again, in the construction of its cells, had solved
one of the greatest mathematical problems, in the result of gaining a
maximum of space with a minimum of material. He believed that it
was the unction of something spiritual that made man what he is.
There were races upon the earth who could not count beyond five ;
still, when they were developed and educated, they seemed to show the
highest power of reason, which he believed to be the recognition of
the spiritual; but for this characteristic Socrates would have dwindled
into nobody, and it would have been the same with Plato. The highest
! | vocation of man, in his opinion, consisted in the power of realising
h the. spiritual.
11 Mr. George Harris, F.S.A., said that they were much indebted to
| Mr. Wake for his paper, in which he seemed to go quite to the bottom
| of the subject. It was difficult to draw a line of demarcation between
I reason and instinct, but the chief distinction to him seemed to be
i that animals were unable to deal with abstract matters. (Hear, hear.)
i Animals could communicate feelings, but not abstract ideas, and much
i of the information conveyed between man and man was in emotional
! language. Animals acted together socially, without language or books ;
| they knew how to appoint a sentinel who would give warning when any
| stranger drew near; in approaching a rookery they could always hear
I one rook giving warning to the others, after which there was great
i chattering.
(I Mr. Volckman expressed the opinion that there were too few illustra-
) | tions in Mr. Wake’s paper to enable them to deal with it effectually in
11 a discussion; he should have illustrated his various points,
j | Another member suggested that the paper should be printed before
11 it was discussed, as it was a close piece of reasoning without illustra-
j tions.
| Dr. G. Wyld thought that the chief distinction between the higher
| and the lower animals consisted in the fact that the senses were more
| developed in the latter. The eagle and other birds of prey could see
| their victims from an immense distance. Other animals had an equally
11 acute sense of hearing, and the dog an acute sense of smell. The
! lower animals appeared to be purely sentient, and to be created solely
(| to live upon this earth. Man had the same senses, but in a less perfect
II form, and in addition thereto he had the faculty of pure reason ; the
! savage approached nearer to the lower animals in the matter of his
11 acute sensibility in seeing, hearing, and smelling. The lower animals
) i he thought to have no imagination, and no conception of a superior
(i being to man. The imaginative, religious and reasoning faculties of
) i man separated him from the lower animals.
The Rev. W. Stainton Moses, M.A., remarked that it was difficult to
(j put the difference between reason and instinct into words. Was
)j there any real difference between them? Might not one be but a
(j higher degree of the other? If spirit energised all matter, as it
(i gradually gained more and more ascendancy, might not instinct become
11 reason ? Man had developed something plus the lower animals, but
/ j man had lost something by his development upon a higher plane;
(! indeed, it might be that man had altogether lost some senses which
> i animals retained ; there were indications that such was the case. Was
j I there any real difference between instinct and reason more than was
(| due to the gradual development of the powers of the spirit ?
/1 Mr. Tagore asked whether the development spoken of by Mr. Moses
(i took place under some law of God which put limitations upon the
ji degree of development, or were they developments growing naturally
)! one out of the other ?
(| Mr. Stainton-Moses replied that to answer that question properly, he
[ | ought to be the Creator Himself. According to the doctrine of Mr.
) j Darwin, reason gradually developed from the lower animals upwards.
Mr. Rawlinson remarked that instinct seemed to him never to act
beyond a certain point, and always to reach that point at once, as in
j j the instance of the building of nests by birds. The first nest of a bird
jl was as good as the last one ; the creature never made any improve-
:)! ment. When animals came into contact with man, they exhibited
f i likings for some persons and dislike to others, without reference to the
i j I amount of kindness exhibited towards them by the individuals ; there
i) I was something apparently in the human eye, or that of the animal,
I (j at the root of these strange attractions and antipathies. The subject
j (| was one enveloped in mystery at present.
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that one of the speakers had stated truly that
j(j instinct never created improvements, whilst reason was constantly
I j | growing. A chicken, directly it was hatched, knew its proper food ;
|) | directly it came out of its shell it knew what to eat and what to drink;
l\i it also knew what it ought not to eat, and these impulses were not regu-
I) | lated by thought. Once he had a blind pony which wished to go from
I (I one field to another; there were several hundreds of yards of railing
(between the two fields, with only one small gate giving communication
between them ; the pony made its way up the‘ field till it came to the
| path, then it followed the path which led to the opening. It must have
reasoned to itself that when it used to go from one field to the other, it
|) | had to walk along a dry path with no grass on it, and that process of
\{\ reasoning was just what man went through when he deduced a con-
| j | elusion from particular facts. A distinct effort of the mind appeared
I) | to have been brought into play. The bird built its nest always in
| (i nearly the same form, but not quite, for it modified its instinct to a
i j | very limited extent. On a hayrick the wren would build the out-
: /1 side of its nest with hay, but when it built in a tree it would construct
I (j the outside of its nest of moss. Man did much more than this, for he
i) i varied his buildings infinitely. Why was man able to do this and not
animals? Mr. Wake had stated in his paper that the real difference
jsj consisted in the possession by man of the power of imagination. He
j/l imagined forms, then adapted his building faculties to what he had
Kj already constructed in his mind. The bird built its first nest as per-
!)| fectly as did its father before it, so it must do so from some impulse
|) | from within, and not from the use of imagination. What was the con-
!(| dition of the mind of the bird while building its nest ? Man had in his
j) i mind the ideal of a house while constructing it. Had a bird the same
j j ideal? If it had, where did it come from? What built the picture of
i(i the nest in its mind? If they were but able to trace the mental
l)j operation going on in the mind of the bird, they would know what
:(1 instinct was, but all that could be said at present was that it was born
j | with the animal. Man had no reason or instinct at all when he was
| I first born. He thought that reason had nothing to do with the senses,
i (i and that it was altogether independent of them.
116 THE SPIRITUALIST. March 10, 1876.
Mr. Stainton-Moses remarked that he did not think any two distinct I)
types ever came into the world successively ; he thought that the one i \
always overlapped the other. That man had much reason and little :;
instinct, and animals much instinct and little reason, seemed to be in it
accordance with the general law he had just stated. I)
Mr. F. K. Munton remarked that a man of his acquaintance, a large j)
builder, had a dog who sat daily on the watch in charge of a hag of j (
tools. When any man in the employ of his master took tools from the j \
bag the dog was quiet, but if any stranger even looked at the bag the |;
dog would go into a fury of rage. The master had many men, some i (
of whom did not remain with him long, yet the dog seemed to recognise i S
those men who had the right to take tools from the bag. j /
Dr. Gr.Wyld said that man had the power of accumulating know- i (
ledge which did not seem to be possessed by the lower animals; thus it i S
came to pass that by accumulation of knowledge on the part of man- [;
kind, the hut of the African developed into St. Peter’s at Rome.
Mr. Volkman said that Mr. A. R. Wallace contended that birds made |)
considerable improvements in building their nests. Not only was this \)
the case with the same birds as they grew older, but with the birds of | (
successive generations. He believed that it was a fact that a hen i)
which had been put to hatch ducks eggs was terribly alarmed when |)
the first brood took to the water, but after hatching a succession of i (
ducks eggs, she would take them down to the water herself. Some i)
animals seemed to be the worse from their connection with man. A j)
wild horse would not run his head against a brick wall, but a tame one ] s
would if driven up to it. i;
A gentleman remarked that madmen had plenty of instinct after all | (
their reason was gone; some madmen were among the cunningest | (
folks out. If
CAN ANIMALS BECOME INSANE. j )
A speaker asked whether animals ever became insane.
Mr. Serjeant Cox said that he thought that dogs became insane some- i)
times. A gamekeeper could often point to a particular dog and say, | \
“ That dog is a fool.” He had seen dogs which evidently had but low j)
control over their own mental powers.
Mr. F. K. Munton : I know a dog who has the reputation all over : \
the neighbourhood of being an idiot. (Laughter.) Talk to him and i)
he runs away at once ; in short, I am sure the dog is a perfect idiot.
* The Secretary announced that at the next meeting a paper on Con- j \
sciousness, by Mr. Bray, would be read. j)
The proceedings then closed. jc
CLAIRVOYANCE, AND PAINTING MEDIUMSHIP.
BY BENJAMIN COLEMAN. | )
At the meeting held on Monday last, of the members of |
the National Association of Spiritualists, I do not find in ||
their discussion of Mesmerism and its phenomena, any j \
allusion to one or two facts which should, I think, come I
under consideration when the subject is renewed.
In my early experience with clairvoyant subjects, thirty I
years ago, I at first concluded that they merely reflected |
my own thoughts, and the impressions made upon my own I
sight. But I soon became assured that there was something ;
more than mind-reading connected with the power we are |
accustomed to call “ clear-seeing,” though at that time |)
knowing nothing of Spiritualism, I was unable to explain : j
facts which met me in my investigation of the subject, and !
I think this must be the reflex action of the brain. Let me i
illustrate by reciting one of many instances to prove that i
the spirit in the body is an active and strongly intelligent ! |
agent out of the body, when a sensitive is placed under certain |)
conditions which we call mesmeric. j (
A humbly educated girl, whom I found a good subject, j
used to visit my family, and I always put her to sleep by I
merely placing my hand on her shoulder for two or three jj
minutes. i
The first effect was invariably to produce a state of total |
unconsciousness and insensibility to pain, and in this con- ^!
dition she 'would remain for a long time, until awoke by :
counter passes to her natural state. But to induce what we !
call the sleep-waking state, I had only to take hold of her :
hand and gently call her by name. She would then, as if [
by magic, cast off her stupor, and become most active, and i)
she exhibited greater intelligence than we gave her credit !
for ordinarily. Her eyes were fast closed, and she never |
knew what had occurred when she was restored to her ;
natural self. In one of these sleep-waking states I generally i ^
asked her to accompany me in a walk, and casting my !
thoughts in a particular direction, I got her to describe the j(
shops and buildings which we passed, all very familiar to !
me, and which I had in my mind’s eye; her descriptions 11
were perfectly accurate, and I called the attention of those |
present to this wonderful power of reading one’s thoughts. I
But on the second occasion I found she not only saw what !
I saw, but she called my attention to a large building with I j
scaffolding around it at the corner of a street. I said she
was mistaken, but she insisted that she was right, and was
very angry with me for denying, as she thought, the evidence of
my own senses. 3 Can’t you see that?” she said, petulantly.
Well, I had not been at that particular spot for many
months previously, and on the following day went there,
and found that a large building was in course of erection
with heavy scaffolding at the corner of the street, just as the
clairvoyante had described.
Now such a fact—and it must be a fact with which many
who have looked into the subject are familiar—is one which
must engage the attention of the psychological student.
As a Spiritualist I have solved it to my own satisfaction,
but I do not pretend to lay down a law for others’ guidance,
and I shall be glad to accept a better solution when it can
be offered to me. I think the spirit does in some instances
separate itself from the living body and wander abroad. I
feel very sure that a disembodied spirit can take possession
of a living body and impel it to do and say many things
which are quite beyond that living person’s natural powers.
The intellectual and superior power in the latter case may
serve to mark the distinction between the two phases.
In regard to David Duguid, whose case was referred to in
the last discussion, it may not be known to many of your
readers that I published in the Spiritual Magazine^ June,
1866, a full account of his mediumship, which was of an
ordinary character in the first instance, and gradually de¬
veloped into that of a drawing medium. His drawings were
at that time done in the family circle of Mr. Hay Nisbet, of
Glasgow, who is a man of high social character.
The medium, in deep trance, with his eyes fast closed—and
sometimes to satisfy a visitor they were covered by a bandage—
worked in the light, surrounded by the family, and there is
no doubt whatever that this modest, plain, working man had
no knowledge whatever of the painter’s art, nor of the
names of the ancient masters, nor of their works.
At the fifth sitting a remarkable water colour drawing was
produced, but those present could get no information from
the lips of the medium of the name of the spirit artist.
He said he was known in the seventeenth century, and was
contemporary with Jan Steieen, the celebrated Dutch artist;
that he himself was not fond of figure painting; he pre¬
ferred painting nature in her wildest grandeur, and at their
next sitting he would attempt a sketch of one of his own
pictures—his masterpiece.
Accordingly, on the evening of April 18th, 1866, David
Duguid, with his eyes closed as usual, and in the presence
of Mr. Nisbet’s family surroundings, pencilled out his sub¬
ject. On the 21st it was finished in water colours , in the
short period of four hours, and in the corner the initials
J. R. were placed. None of the party had the least idea to
whom these initials referred. Mr. Logan, Mr. Nisbet’s
son-in-law, brought an artist to look at the picture, who was
much struck with it, and although he could not name the
original artist, he said he was sure he had seen an engraving
of the picture. On the following day he showed Mr. Logan,
in a volume of CasseWs Art Treasures Exhibition^ the en¬
graving, nearly facsimile of the spirit drawing from a paint¬
ing of “ The Waterfalls,” by Jacob Rusdael, who lived in
the seventeenth century.
I have photographic copies of both, and they can no doubt
be had in Glasgow. It appears that Messrs. Cassell and
Co. have stopped the sale of Hqfed on the ground that some
of the drawings in this work, which were done through the
hand of David Duguid whilst in the trance state, are copied
from their Illustrated Family Bible, which, if true, may be
taken as a most remarkable psychological fact. As I know
that the principal managing partner, Mr. Henry Jefferey, of
Messrs. Cassell and Co.’s firm, is a gentleman of great in¬
telligence, who possesses some knowledge of the most re¬
markable spiritual facts on record, there ought not to be
any difficulty in satisfying him of the real circumstances
under which the book Hafed Prince of Persia was produced,
and if this has not been thought of by those who are taking
a prominent part in satisfying Messrs. Cassell and Co. of
the facts of this case, I recommend them to seek an inter¬
view with this gentleman.
Upper Norwood, March 4th, 1876.
March 10, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
117
(Eomaptmuence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPECULATIONS ABOUT ELEMENTARY SPIRITS, SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION, REINCAR¬
NATIONS, MAGICIANS, AND MEDIUMS.
Sib,—The letter of “ M.A. (Cantab) ” upon the above topics in your
number of the 28th January, has just brought me a communica¬
tion from a very learned Occultist, containing what appears to me a
more than usually clear and definite statement of the doctrine of
spiritual evolution. My correspondent deals also with the question of
reincarnation and with the suggestion of “M.A. (Cantab),” that the
magician’s will must be associated with medial power. The letters
which have appeared in The Spiritualist, testifying to a wide-spread
interest in, and curiosity about, these subjects, I make no apology for
sending you a long extract from this communication, although I am not
at liberty to give the name of the writer. If the reader, unlearned in
the terminology of the occult writers, will interpret the “astral light,” to
which allusion is more than once made, into the “universal ether” postu¬
lated by modern science, I think there is little else that requires explan¬
ation to be, at all events, intelligible.
“ He (M.A., Cantab) is right in holding that the elementary repre¬
sents one of the phases of human beings. No one can understand the
Hermetic philosophy without beginning ah initio. The astral light
(universal ether) is our starting point. It is not to the purpose to go
behind the operative activity of the law of evolution for its cause; that
is a separate branch of metaphysics. Let us take the principle of cos¬
mogony admitted by science, viz., that the visible universe is the result
of aggregations of molecules caused by evolution. Every molecule has
its inherent energy, and is thereby forced into each successive relation¬
ship as it passes through the mineral, vegetable, and animal kingdoms.
The Hermetist, who sees with both eyes, instead of with one only,
observes that each atom, no matter where found, is imbued with
that vital principle called spirit. Thus each grain of sand,
equally with each minutest atom of the human body, has its
inherent latent spark of the Divine light; and, as one law of
evolution applies to the whole universe, so each of these grains of sand
will assuredly one day go to make up the body of man. In the progress
of these atoms, from the primitive rock to the human being, there is a
constant giving off of astral emanations. These go into the common
store-house of nature, the astral atmosphere of our planet. The same
law following them here, these emanations have a tendency to assume
concrete forms. Exactly as the fishes of different species represent the
successive stages of nature’s journey-work in her attempt to produce the
most perfect piscatorial form, so the multifarious forms of the elementary
mark her attempts to produce the perfect and concrete physical man.
This implies an evolution of spirit keeping pace with the evolution of
matter, and a constant tendency of the spirit to gain ascendency over, or
rather to escape from, the bondage of its encompassing matter. When
this double evolution has reached a certain point, it is possible for the
third principle to come into the union, that is, the immortal spirit [soul],
which makes of man the Triad. As these emanations were given off,
so at the proper time they are drawn back again into the vortex of
evolution, and the elementary, dying in the astral light, goes to make
the human being—the foetus—the grosser portions furnishing the germ
of its body, and its finer ones its astral body, the perisprit of Kardec,
or the spirit. Then, after the body of the foetus is prepared to receive
it, at the fourth hour (read the Nuetemeron of El. Levi) comes in the
influx of the Divine breath. You will doubtless observe the analogy
between this giving off of astral emanations, their concentration into
elementaries, and return to physical nature, and the evaporation of
watery vapour, its condensation into clouds, and return to the earth as
rain or snow. Modern scientific research demonstrates this ebb and flow
of influences and matter to be going on throughout the whole cosmos,
and, therefore, unless we were to admit the absurd theory of special
creation and miracle, we must see that this philosophy of the evolution
of species by flux and reflux from matter to spirit and back again is the
only true one; . . . the whole trouble of Kardec, and other reincarna-
tionists, lies in their misunderstanding the hermetic philosophy upon
this point. While it is true that there is a reincarnation in one sense,
in the other it is untrue. Nay, more, it is absurd and unphilosophical,
doing violence to the law of evolution, which is constantly carrying
matter and spirit upward towards perfection. When the elementary
dies out of one state of existence he is born into a higher .one, and
when man dies out of the world of gross matter, he is born into one
more etherial; so on from sphere to sphere, man never losing his
trinity, for at each birth a new and more perfect astral body is evolved
out of elementaries of a correspondingly higher order, while his previous
astral body takes the place of the antecedent, external earthly body.
Man’s soul (or Divine spirit, for you must not confound the Divine with
the astral spirit) constantly entering into new astral bodies, there is an
actual reincarnation; but that when it has once passed through any
sphere into a higher one, it should re-enter the lower sphere and pass
through other bodies similar to the one it has just quitted, is as uuphilo-
sophical as to fancy that the human foetus could go back into the ele¬
mentary condition, or the child after birth re-enter its mother’s womb.
The eastern Kabbalah embraces the Pythagorean philosophy; the
western, or Rosicrucian, did not. But the metempsychosis of Pytha¬
goras was an exoteric expression to cover the esoteric meaning, and his
commentators, who had not the key, have misunderstood him as grossly
as they have misunderstood everything else written by those of the
Neo-Platonics, who, like Porphyry, lamblicus, and Plotinus, have been
adopting and elaborating his precepts. The spirits upon whose com¬
munications the reincarnationist school base their theory, have simply
given back the opinions which they found in the heads or brains of
their mediums and the circle about them. Reincarnationist
(i
(|
spirits never insist upon their doctrines to any but reincar¬
nationist mediums, and the troops of soldiers seen about Prince
Wittgenstein are simply pretty pictures made in the astral light, for the
delectation of those who are ready to gobble them. * Cantab ’ suggests
that the controlling power of the magician cannot produce phenomena
unless conjoined with medial power, and this is perhaps the view of
Professor Perty. Now, the magician, when he evokes human spirits,
furnishes them with such a condition in his own pure atmosphere—
a spiritual atmosphere, untainted with gross matter—that they can
approach and manifest themselves. The sorcerer, as well as the
impure medium, are but necromancers. They are surrounded by such
a fetid atmosphere, that only elementary and gross human spirits of
their own cla§s—whose very grossness keeps them closely attracted to
the earth—can either approach them or be evoked to help them in their
wicked designs. Both magician and sorcerer can produce phenomena
by the power of their own will and their own spirit, unaided by any
other either elementary or human; but the impure medium, who is but
the football tossed from one influence to another, can do nothing but
passively obey. Pure and sincere-minded people, who accept medium-
ship for the sake of instruction from superior spirits, keep the elemen¬
tary at bay by virtue of their own purity, and the pure atmosphere of
the spirits surrounding them. And still they cannot call them at will,
until they ha've become adepts of the divine science, and learned to
combine the Ineffable Name.”
I am far from laying these views before your readers as free from
difficulty. But unless Spiritualists are prepared to deny or disregard
the whole philosophy of evolution—in its development the greatest
achievement of modern thought—it behoves us to establish relations
with it, and to lend a willing ear to any exposition of the correspon¬
dence between the physical and spiritual kingdoms in the historical
department. An English Member of the Theosophioal Society.
London, 2nd March.
THE ORIGIN OP AN ANCIENT MAXIM.
Sir,—In Boswell’s Life of Johnson, under the year 1783, Mr. J. L.
O’Sullivan will find a passage bearing on the authorship of the famous
maxim about judicial blindness, which it seems “ Publius Syrus ” now
claims as his own. I will quote the words to save Mr. O’Sullivan the
trouble of hunting it up. On page sixty-six of the fifth volume of the
edition of 1824 we read: “ "When I once talked to him of some of the
sayings which everybody repeats, but nobody knows where to find, such
as ‘ Quos deus vult perdere, prius derndniat* he told me that he was
once offered ten guineas to point out whence ‘ Setnel insanivimus omnes ’
was taken. He could not do it; but many years afterwards met with it
by chance in Johannes Baptista Mantuanus.” We have then a footnote
as follows: “ With the following elucidation of the other saying, ‘ Quos
Deus (it should rather be Quem Jupiter) vult perdere, prius dementatf
Mr. Boswell was furnished by Mr. Richard How, of Apsley, in Bedford¬
shire, as communicated to that gentleman by his friend Mr. John Pitts,
late Rector of Great Brickhill, in Buckinghamshire
“ Perhaps no scrap of Latin whatever has been more quoted than this.
It occasionally falls even from those who are scrupulous even to
pedantry in their Latinity, and will not admit a word into their compo¬
sitions which has not the sanction of the first age. The word demento
is of no authority, either as a verb active or neuter. After along search,
for the purpose of deciding a bet, some gentlemen of Cambridge found
it among the fragments of Euripides, in what edition I do not recollect,
where it is given as a translation of a Greek iambic :—
“ Ov 0£O£ SsXti cnroXtacn 7rpu)^, aTr^ptvai.’’
I give the Greek words as they occur in Boswell, not having the frag¬
ments of Euripides to refer to; but if the line is correctly quoted, it
has a most awkward hiatus in the middle, quite foreign to the rules of
iambic metre. The word avotypevai is, I presume, a misprint for
aTro^ptvoi, a conceivable formation, although the verb airo<j>Qtv6o> finds no
place in Liddell and Scott’s lexicon. Criticism of the Greek line is,
however, rather foreign to our present point. Let us turn rather to a
consideration of the Latin rendering.
The word demento, as the defunct Rector of Great Brickhill observes,
“is of no authority,” that is to say, is found in no writer of the
so-called classical age, though the verb dementire occurs once in
Lucretius—t(DementU enim deliraque fatur'' De Rei. Nat. hi. 464.
It is not till we come to the Christian writer Lanctantius, who lived
about the beginning of the fourth century, that we meet with the word
dementare, but then it is an intransitive, not as a transitive verb. In
his treatise De Mortibus Persecutorum, chap. 7, speaking of the enor¬
mities of Diocletian, that author has the following words : “ Ita semper
dementabat, Nicomediam studens urhi Romm covequare," where demen-
tahat means “ played the madman.” There is no instance in all Latin
of the use of dementare in the sense of “ to drive mad.” Setting aside,
therefore, the difficulty that the maxim we are discussing is not an
iambic line, it is improbable in the highest degree that Publius Syrus,
who lived in the purest age of classical Latinity, could have been the
author of it. The communication is probably as apocryphal as most
others to which high-sounding names are appended appear to be. As
Mr. O’Sullivan tells us that he has frequently conversed in Latin with
the Roman physician Glaucus, who manifests through Firman, he
cannot so entirely have forgotten his classics as in his modesty he
would have us beUeve. Have not the hidden contents of his own mind,
as seems so often to be the case, come back to him now as a revelation
from without ? Perhaps he has at some time of his life read the very
passage I have quoted from Boswell, where there is an uncertainty in
the form of the maxim between the words “ Deus ” and “ Jupiter."
As I find myself on the subject of verbal criticism, I will beg leave to
echo Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald’s remonstrance against Imperator’s
inversion of the terms “ soul ” and “ spirit,” using the latter to denote
the spirit-body. M.A., in defence of his “Daemon,” urges that the
118
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Makch 10; 1876,
question is merely one of words, which is true; and that, “ If we had
to invent our terminology, it would he well to use some such expres¬
sions as ‘physical body,’^ spiritual body,’ and ‘soul,’” But, then,
that is precisely what we have not to do. There is a terminology
ready-made for us, with the prescription of centuries to recommend it,
which it is well to accept, instead of introducing wanton innovations.
One feels inclined to remind Imperator of what was said to another
emperor, “that he could give the citizenship to men, but not to words.”
The word “ soul ” was employed by our translators of the Bible to
render “ spirit” being reserved for the Greek Trvtvfia, with which
it is synonymous. There can be no doubt about the sense of the words
and irvsv/ia in Christian psychology. Mr. Fitz-Gerald’s very apt
quotation from Justin Martyr, “ The body is the house of the soul, and
the soul is the house of the spirit,” expresses exactly the sense of St.
Paul in the 15th of 1st Corinthians (45, 46), where he says, “ There is
a soul-body, and there is a spirit-body. For so it is written, ‘ The first
man Adam became a living soul, but the second Adam became a life-
giving spirit.’ It is not the spirit-body that is first, but the soul-body,
and after that the spirit-body.” By “ soul-body ” is obviously meant
the physical organism, which now serves as the vehicle of the soul,
whence it is rendered in the English version, “ natural body,” a transla¬
tion in which one-half the original expression is lost sight of. If most
people understood by soul the highest principle in man, it is only
because, as Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald points out, the Western Church
has sunk into a lazy dichotomy, unable to appreciate the psychological
distinctions of St. Paul and the Greek fathers. The trichotomy, in the
ascending order of body, soul, and spirit, is the genuine doctrine of
Spiritualism, which, if not true, cannot, at all events, be denounced as
a new-fangled invention. St. George Stock.
THE INFLUENCE OF LIGHT ON SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Sir,—Mr. Crookes’ experiments on the motor force of light should
not pass unnoticed by Spiritualists. If the impact of the light undula¬
tions as calculated by him be well founded in fact, and correct in degree,
it may go at least towards an explanation of the obstacle which light,
artificial and solar, presents to the manifesting power of the spirits.
Hitherto it has been surmised that light interferes with manifestations
by virtue of some chemical alterations which it effects in the subtle
forces at work in their production ; but this discovery of the mechanical
agency of light may'surely be added to the alteration in question, as
another impeding cause to such production. We speak of a “spirit”
body because we do not know how otherwise to express the refined
“ matter ” of which it is composed. May not matter so refined be acted
on by the undulations of the equally refined ether which produce light,
and by the impact of these be affected in its manifesting power ? At
all events the discovery opens another point for observation and ex¬
periment in our complex and mysterious subject. J. M. G.
Sir,—The recent experiments of Mr. Crookes in the weighing of light
suggest very important considerations to investigators into so-called
spiritual phenomena, and appear to me to point towards a practical
explanation of one of the great difficulties which rudimentary inquirers
find in accepting apparent facts in good faith, because such facts can
only be obtained and presented to them in darkness.
The necessity, however, for the exclusion of light ceases to be any
matter for surprise, when we are constrained to admit that light, so far
from being the imponderable element hitherto supposed, must be one of
the most powerful direct forces in nature, for if its mechanical force on
this globe can be reckoned by thousands of millions of tons, indepen¬
dently of the incalculable chemical force it possesses, what wonder is
there that a very appreciable dispersive influence may be produced, on
what are called spiritual manifestations, when attempted in the light ?
Many of the difficulties and apparent anomalies that have surrounded
this subject at once disappear, when it is proved that light must take its
place amongst the comparatively denser powers that can be weighed in
bulk like water or air; and instead of wondering “ how it is that spirits
always manifest best in the dark,” and looking on this as an evidence of
intended trickery and deception, we should rather be disposed to wonder
how so subtle and attenuated an element as “ spirit ” can act at all, so
as to be apparent to our senses, except where there is no light to be
penetrated to interfere with the delicate conditions that may be reason¬
ably granted as necessary for “ spiritual manifestations.” W. H.
[Our experience is that physical conditions have little influence on the mani¬
festations, whilst spiritual and affectional influences are all-powerful. Thus,
in the accordion playing in the light in the presence of Messrs. Crookes,
Huggins, and Cox, as well as in the presence of hundreds of others elsewhere,
the instrument was screened from their eyes, under a table. Spirits have said
that a glance from the human eye “bums” their materialised forms. In the
Banner of Light some years ago, it was narrated how an observer entered a
room where fiddle-flying and dark circle manifestations were going on in full
daylight, but directly the medium knew another mortal to be present, all the
instruments fell to the ground.—Ed.]
MATERIALISATION OF SPIRITS AND PHYSICAL PHENOMENA AT ISLINGTON.1
Sir,—We have lately started at the Spiritual Institution, 19, Church-
street, Islington, a series of experimental sittings, for materialisations,
and knowing the interest you have evinced in the success of this institu¬
tion, I beg to hand you some particulars of our first three nights’
phenomena. We are only seven in number. On the first occasion we
tied the medium (Mr. Bullock, jun.), very securely in a chair, and
placed him in a cabinet, with a small table with hoops, two small hand¬
bells, and paper tubes. These were very soon in motion, being knocked
against the ceiling and the top of the cabinet. A hand now appeared
at the aperture, which shook hands with us. We then lighted up, and
found that the medium had a hoop round his arm, between where he was
11 tied and his shoulder; it was then taken off by the spirits. We again
| placed him bound in the cabinet, the same feat was repeated, the hoop
j ] being placed on the other arm this time. The third time the cords were
i i untied, excepting that portion which went round the chair, the spirit
51 Lilly observing, through the medium, “ that will be a job for Mr. Starnes.”
(j On the second occasion we commenced in a similar way, with
5 j similar results. Then we were told to place the medium outside the
) | cabinet, when a hoop was quickly placed round his chest and shoulders,
(i extending from over his shoulder on one side to under his shoulder on
i the other, and fastening him on to the chair. We put the light out
) l again, and the hoop was removed. Several spirit-hands now touched
j us; a hoop was placed round my neck, and a hand was distinctly seen
| to take it off. Several partly materialised forms were seen. A column of
{| light was seen between a gentleman and myself, and Lilly afterwards
| informed us that my mother had tried to show herself, but had not power
| enough, but that she would probably succeed next time. On the last
] i occasion a spirit—Daniel Watts—said in a loud distinct voice, “ Good
<j evening, Mr. Bullock,” and “Good evening, Mrs. Bullock.” He then
showed us some beautiful spirit lights. A long arm and hand were
then projected from the cabinet and held out to me. I took the hand,
saying, “ Is this your hand, mother ? ” when my hand was violently
shaken three times, and then lifted up as high as I could reach. The
hand and arm were quite solid, and long and thin as my mother’s would
be. A ball of light was now seen at the aperture, which gradually
resolved itself into the appearance of the face of my mother when on
her death bed; this was repeated several times. Then a very large ball
of light, quite opaque and intensely white, a living, moving mass of
light such as I had never witnessed before, was seen to leave the
medium’s body and ascend to the aperture; moving to and fro like an
ambient flame, it took the shape of the head and face of my mother,
with a large high cap, with wide border," thus showing the full face,
which continued for about two minutes to nod to me and to turn itself
about that I might view it in its various phases. I most distinctly
traced in this representation the high cheek bones, the thin face, and
taper chin of my mother, who has been “dead” about eight years.
Another ball of light was now visible, a much smaller one, and this
resolved into the head and face of a little child, and was at once recog¬
nised as a child belonging to a lady in the circle, which child had died
some time ago.
Having been prevented by illness from attending since then, I cannot
speak further from personal observation, but I have not the least doubt
that we shall soon get the full materialised form, of which I shall take
the earliest opportunity of apprising you.
I must beg you to excuse the length of this letter. Like yourself, I
feel a great interest in everything connected with this Institution, and
especially in those who have the management of it, and through whom
the various manifestations I have witnessed there have been produced;
for whilst there is so much deception practised in various quarters that
the outside world does not know what to believe and what not, it is
satisfactory to me to be able to bear testimony to the perfect honesty of
these people (the Bullocks). I have been most intimately acquainted
with them for about eighteen months, and I can fearlessly state that,
although I have most critically watched their every movement in con¬
nection with the various phenomena produced, yet I have never detected
the least approach to anything like deception, from Mr. and Mrs.
Bullock themselves down to the youngest child; and from what I have
witnessed of young Mr. Bullock’s powers I feel certain that he is
destined to become, and is most rapidly becoming, a very extraordinary
medium for physical and materialistic phenomena.
George Starnes.
22, Sparsholt-road, Crouch-hill, N.
MR. WILLIAMS’ MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—On Saturday evening last I had the pleasure of attending a
seance at Lamb’s Conduit-street with the above well-known and re¬
spected physical medium. The circle was a harmonious one, and con¬
sisted of two ladies, one of whom was an entire stranger, and six
gentlemen, including Mr. Williams. The circle was formed around the
centre table in the front room. Mr. Williams desired his hands to be
held by those sitting to his right and left hand, and the rest of the circle
also joined hands, when the light was turned out. A little singing
followed, during which my hands were gently patted, while several other
members of the circle stated that they had a similar experience. The
well-known voice of “ John King ” was then heard addressing different
sitters, and, at my request, to say something to the lady stranger sitting
to my left; he made direct reference to some family matters, which
evidently gave pleasurable satisfaction to the lady in question. From
the words addressed to the lady by “ John King,” without the slightest
remark or suggestion from her, he appeared to know that some members
of her family were in India, and on speaking to this lady after the close
of the seance, she expressed the pleasure the test thus given to herself,
—a stranger, who had never been at one of Mr. Williams’ seances
before—had afforded her.
The next feature of interest was the wonderful appearance of “ John
King,” with the mysterious light in his hand. It should be noted, how¬
ever, that the medium, Mr. Williams, was perfectly conscious, and
taking part in the conversation whilst the form of “John King” was
seen in different positions in the circle. I had requested John King to
come near to the lady stranger already referred to, but was somewhat
surprised at suddenly finding the form manifesting itself between the
lady and myself, and speaking to us both. The light held in his left
hand was frequently placed close to his face, so that we had an excel¬
lent opportunity for scanning the features and general appearance of
this world-famed materialising spirit. In connection with this mani¬
festation, it is apparent that the form of John King is not that of the
medium, as Mr. Williams was seated in the circle, and conscious of all
March 10, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
119
that was said or done, and I am able to testify that the form of John
King was similar in all respects to the form seen at seances held in other
parts of London, where Mr. Williams had been engaged, and came un¬
attended by any assistant, so that the idea of a confederate acting the
part is untenable.
The voice of Peter was also frecpiently heard throughout the sitting,
the musical box was repeatedly wound up, and other physical manifes¬
tations common to Mr. Williams’ siances, were observed with evident
satisfaction by all those present.
It appears to me that Mr. Williams’ phase of mediumship is a very
valuable one, especially for the facilities it affords investigators for
observing markedly convincing physical manifestations under fair and
reasonable conditions, such as should remove any impression of collu¬
sion or trickery on his part. I cannot help thinking that if a few of his
friends were to revive the “ Saturday evening siances for Spiritualists
only,” which were so enjoyable a few years since, doubtlessly both sitters
and medium would benefit each other by such friendly and social inter¬
course. Thomas Blyton.
72, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E., 6th March, 1876.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Sir,—Will you kindly correct the mistake in the date of Dr. Sexton’s
lecture, as stated in the Agenda of the British National Association of
Spiritualists. The lecture will be given on Thursday, the 16th inst.,
instead of the 15th inst., as announced.
Emily <j. Fitz-G-erald, Hon. Assist.-Sec.
6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, March 7th, 1876.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE HEALING POWERS OP MESMERISM AND MEDIUMSHIP.
Last Monday night, at one of the ordinary fortnightly meetings of
the members of the British National Association of Spiritualists, at 38,
Great Russell-street, London, W.C., Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., presided.
The Chairman read a communication, dated March 4th last, sent in
by Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, and written by a well-known powerful mesmerist
of bygone times, namely, Mr. Henry Stafford Thompson, of Moorlands,
York. He detailed several cases of the healing of disease by mesme¬
rism. • The first case was that of a lad named Bradley, aged eight or
nine years, suffering from a diseased knee, which, for the last year, had
gradually been getting worse, was enormously swollen, ulcerated, and
the leg much contracted; he had hectic fever, cough, and was
emaciated. He had been treated for a year by Dr. Hopps and another
surgeon, both residents in York. Dr. Thompson, of York, head physi¬
cian to the hospital there, was consulted as to the desirability of ampu¬
tating the limb, but the conclusion was that the boy could not bear the
operation in the low state of his health. He (Mr. Thompson) was
present at the examination, and as the boy was groaning in great pain,
he mesmerised him. In a few minutes the boy smiled, said it was warm,
and that he felt no pain. An hour’s further mesmerising simply made
him drowsy. Next morning the boy’s mother thanked him, saying that
her son had slept well all night for the first time for many weeks. He
mesmerised him again. The knee became gradually reduced in size,
the ulcers healed at the end of a fortnight, and the knee became so firm
as to bear pressure. Gradually the limb was straightened, partly by
mechanical force, and at the end of another week the boy could bear his
weight upon it. At the end of a month he could bend it in some degree; his
health had been improved, and he could walk without crutches or stick. He
continued without any further mesmerising to improve, became a healthy
man, but never acquired the entire free action of the knee-joint,
although he was able to plough and perform ordinary work. Perhaps
had the mesmerising been continued, he might have been entirely
cured. Many years afterwards typhoid fever attacked him; he had
congestion of the lungs; and he was delirious. He (Mr. Thompson)
mesmerised him, and in an hour he burst into a profuse perspiration,
became sensible, then went into a deep sleep for five hours; he was at
work ten days afterwards. He took no medicine in either of the pre¬
ceding cases. A great friend of his, the Rev. E. Wyvill, asked him to
go and see his sister, who had been bedridden for three years, having
been thrown from a carriage. She was a heavy woman, more than
fifty years of age. She was in a state of syncope, and could not sit up
for five minutes without being exhausted. She suffered constant pain
in the spine, and the medical man said that the disease probably arose
from ulceration of the spinal cord. The invalid and her brother lived
forty miles from his house, so he stopped with him a few days. After
a few minutes’ mesmerism the invalid felt a warmth in the spine, and
said that the pain was leaving her. At the end of a quarter of an hour
all the pain was gone. She was able to sit up under the treatment for
ten minutes, and slept well, had no return of the pain, and next day
she sat up for half an hour while passes were made. On the third day
she could stand and walk, and on the following morning he left her.
She gradually and slowly obtained the power of walking without fatigue,
and at the end of six or seven months was quite well. She never had
any return of the symptoms, and is alive at this day. His experiences
in mesmerism had taught him that under his hand the relief was not
only permanent, but that the constitutions of naturally weak and un¬
healthy subjects, particularly scrofulous persons, had frequently ap¬
peared to be completely changed. He would give one more case. A
little girl, nine or ten years old, named Atkinson, the daughter of a
servant who lived with Mrs. Jenyns, had, three years previously, had
a fall from a ladder, breaking her arm and causing concussion of the
brain. The left side of her face, neck, and arm were paralysed, and
the jaw was partially locked. A tumour formed under the jaw, and
gradually extended to the throat, becoming so large that it threatened
suffocation. She had been in the Hull and York hospitals. The
tumour had been iodised, blistered, tapped, and setoned, but continued
to increase. After he had first mesmerised her for an hour, saliva
flowed from the mouth, and the tumour was reduced one-third in size.
He was then obliged to absent himself for a week, and when he re¬
turned the tumour had entirely disappeared. This occurred two years
ago, and she had been quite well since.
Miss Chandos then read a paper, opening with some speculations as
to the nature of disease. She said that her experience had taught her
that mesmerism would alleviate pain for a time, but not necessarily
remove the cause; proper diet was one of the best things to remove the
roots of disease. She thought that mesmerism had no power over
organic disease, but could remove functional and nervous complaints.
On rheumatism it had a wonderful power, and it had a strong influence
over hypochondria, hysteria, kleptomania, dipsomania, as well as con¬
ditions produced by loss of nervous energy and vital power. She said
that in her own mesmeric practice she commenced locally, by placing
a handkerchief over the diseased part, and breathing upon it; the pain
usually left by degrees, varying necessarily as to the time in different
cases. She then made regular passes. If the pain was not a local one,
she placed a handkerchief over the heart and breathed upon it for a few
minutes. She next laid her hands on the sides of the head and made
passes. She said that the pain taken from the patient could be retained
in the hands of the mesmerist, and given by direct passes to a healthy
subject. In the remainder of her paper she described how she attacked
pains in different parts of the body by breathing and by passes.
A discussion followed, in the course of which Dr. Gully said that, in
his own experience mesmerism had little or nothing to do with the
exercise of the will. One of the most powerful mesmerists he ever saw
was a great ignorant servant girl in Manchester, who had immense
influence in mesmerising people, but who laughed all the time she made
the passes. She could put almost anybody to sleep, including the
noisiest of tipsy men. He himself had sent people to sleep without
much exercise of his will; he had further often noticed that under
mesmeric treatment the pain, instead of leaving gradually, would go
away suddenly. Mesmerism sometimes succeeded where everything
else had failed. A case once came under his notice in which an ovarian
tumour, which did not succumb in the least to hydropathic treatment,
was entirely cured by the mesmerism of a clairvoyant and trance medium.
The lady lived for ten years afterwards.
Mr. G. R. Tapp said that he had read up and studied the subject of
mesmerism, and had practised it a little, but he had never obtained clear
evidence of a single organic disease having been cured by it. Func¬
tional and nervous ailments yielded to its influence.
Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. Wallace, Mr. J. Ashman, and others addressed
the meeting, and the proceedings closed.
A SEANCE WITH MR. EGLINGTON.—A DEEP TRANCE.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—The first of a series of siances with Mr. Eglington was held on
Friday last at 38, Great Russell-street, in the presence of Mr. Chas.
Blackburn, Dr. and Mrs. Keningale Cook, Mr. H. Wedgwood, and other
members of the National Association of Spiritualists. Only one inquirer
was present. The medium sat in the cabinet, and was tied with tapes
knotted and sealed in the manner described in my last letter. Signs of
activity in the cabinet were heard immediately, and Joey was as lively
and as loquacious as usual. Suddenly everything ceased; a dead pause
ensued, and no answer could be elicited to our inquiries. A lady of the
company, a strong medium, entered the cabinet, in the hope of re¬
kindling by her presence the psychic flame, but nothing but a few dull
raps could be obtained. After some debate, and about twenty minutes’
blankness, it was resolved to awaken the medium; he was taken out of
his bonds, and removed from the cabinet; then about a quarter of an
hour was spent in de-mesmerising, fanning, applying cold water and
other remedies to recall him from the too deep trance into which he had
fallen. After a little refreshment Mr. Eglington was desirous of re¬
entering the cabinet; this was yielded to only after some consultation
among the sitters, for it was feared that ill effects might ensue, Mr.
Eglington being evidently in a weak state of health. The cheery voice
of Joey soon assured us we had done rightly, as he stated that when
the medium, from physical weakness, falls too deeply into trance, his
medial powers are no longer available, and the operating spirit has no
material to work with. Hence the impossibility of making a single rap.
The latter part of the seance went well. Hands were produced at the
opening, and a small face was distinctly visible to those who sat near the
cabinet.
These seances for materialisation will be continued weekly during
three months, and I am happy to state that, through the liberality of
Mr. Charles Blackburn, they will be made accessible to all members of
the Association, who will have the privilege of presenting tickets, under
certain conditions, to their inquiring friends. E. Kislingbury.
The saying has been ascribed to Mr. Spurgeon—“ Resist the devil,
and he will fly from you; but resist the deacon, and he will fly at you.”
Spiritualism in Brixton.—Next Thursday, at eight o’clock, Dr.
George Sexton will deliver a public lecture on Spiritualism, at the
Angell Town Institution, Gresham-road, Brixton,
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Many communications are kept over till next week, from want of space in
this number.
120
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 10, 1876.
“ HAFED, PRINCE OF PERSIA.”
We have received the following letter on the subject of the book
recently published, entitled, Hafed, Prince of Persia:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—I have read your article on “physical manifestations” in last
week’s issue of The Spiritualist. I am not aware that such a picture as
that you mention, “Hafed, Prince of Persia Reviewing his Troops,” is in
Mr. Duguid’s book, unless it be in the appendix, “ Hafed addressing a
Persian audience.” As one of Mr. Duguid’s circle, and having been
present at a number of the direct drawings done through his medium-
ship, to one of which you refer in your article, I beg you will allow
me to notice that the conditions under which these drawings are received
by us in Mr. Duguid’s presence are plainly mentioned in the book
Hafed. That they are strictly test conditions, that these conditions
simply place the direct drawings beyond a doubt, or the suspicion of
fraud or deception, even granting the similarity of some to already
known drawings. If some of these are like known drawings it is not
Mr. Duguid’s fault. Mr. Duguid is, I think, perfectly exempt from all
blame, if any reliance is to be placed on the four witnesses named in the
book, or the numerous parties who from time to time have been present,
and testified to the satisfactory conditions in which these drawings are
produced. I may mention as parties signifying approval of these con¬
ditions, Dr. Sexton and Dr. Monck.
Anything so satisfactory as Mr. Duguid’s drawings I have not seen
anywhere, through a varied experience of upwards of four years.
Regarding the spirit Stein, it might be easy to prove his innocence,
for he declares that to assist in the rapid production of these drawings,
he takes ideas from ourselves at the circle, and thus possibly sees
pictures through our own brains, or his own recollections of earth-life,
and very harmlessly reproduces them. The explanation may be very
simple. It is just one of the many problems for us to solve in spiritual
phenomena.
How Mr. Duguid’s name—one so generally respected—comes to be
classed with the notorious Buguet it is hard to see. I trust you will
give this a place, as Mr. Duguid has actually suffered in health from
these misrepresentations. James Simpson.
141, Elderslie-street, Glasgow, March 3rd, 1876.
The following communication has also been received from the pub¬
lisher of the book, Mr. Nisbet, of Glasgow:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—In your publication of the 18th ult., you were pleased to intro¬
duce the above-named book to the notice of your readers, accompanied
by two letters from correspondents, the first of these dealing with the
direct pictures, and the other supporting your own statement as to the
“ inaccuracies ’’ of the work. Had Mr. Rogers consulted the book
itself he might have got all the explanation he is ever likely to get on a
confessedly perplexing subject. The spirit artists have repeatedly
mentioned throughout their ten years’ control of the medium, that
many of the little direct card paintings and drawings, which have been
given away to visitors, were taken from impressions on the brain of the
medium and other persons present. That is what they still assert, and
it affords, in my opinion, a very fair explanation to the experienced
Spiritualist—certainly a much easier solution of the difficulty than that
of deception on the part of the medium, subjected, as he was, to the test
conditions under which these direct illustrations of Hafed were produced.
Your “ clerical ” critic is very unhappy in the selection of his first
blunder. I thought “ ev.ery school boy ” was acquainted with the use
of brackets. I am wrong ; your clerical correspondent apparently
knows nothing about these common marks. Hafed does not use the
word Venice; the word is put in by me within brackets. For further
light on this and other names, I refer him to notes on pages 48, 182, and
186. But, where does he find the Persian speaking of Venice “ as a
well-known sea-port?" This first “ instance certainly does not give me
very much confidence in his capacity to deal with his “ hundred other ”
instances.
But my object at present in writing this letter was not to find fault
with your opinions, or those of your correspondents on Hafed, the
book is before the world, and must stand or fall according to the amount
of truth contained in it. I want to know why you, in the face of the
testimony of respectable witnesses, whose names and addresses are
given in the volume, vouching for the statement that the direct pictures
were given under strict test conditions, I want to know why you deliber¬
ately, in your leading article of the 25th ult., ignore all this, by classing
these extraordinary pictures, and Mr. Duguid, through whose medium-
ship they were given, along with the peijured medium Buguet, and
other two notorious impostors ? You have in this matter recklessly de¬
famed a medium, who has for ten years maintained an unblemished
character in the estimation of all who knew him, and who has freely,
and without price, used his gift for the gratification of thousands of
inquirers. As is too often the case with some editors, I am afraid you
have not read the book with that degree of attention it ought to re¬
ceive from one who had set himself to the task of reviewing, else why
speak of one of the pictures as “ Hafed, Prince of Persia, reviewing
his Troops,” being a copy of “ Moses viewing the Promised Land ? ”
Where do you find such a picture in the volume ? Such reckless state-
me nts exhibit a phase of character altogether incompatible with that of
an honest reviewer. H. Nisbet.
Glasgow, March 1st, 1876.
In two successive numbers of The Spiritualist we printed two articles
about this book, and in the first one stated emphatically that Mr. Duguid
was a good medium, Mr. Nisbet a man of high reputation, and that the
circumstance that some of the pictures in Hafed produced by spirit
agency are more or less direct copies of some of the plates in Cassell’s
Family Bible, was due to the deeds of the spirits and not to the medium.
In the above letter Mr. Nisbet ignores the first article, and points out
11 that we mentioned the trouble brought upon the movement by the above
| pictorial plagiarism, in close proximity to the trouble brought upon the
I movement by the misdeeds of certain disreputable mediums. That any
! imputation was thrown by us upon Mr. Duguid does not appear to have
| struck anybody, except those more or less concerned in the publication
of the book; but at the same time we express regret that persons who
| are not Spiritualists, and who did not read the first article, might pos-
| sibly place the same construction upon the second one which is done in
Mr. Nisbet’s letter.
Experienced Spiritualists know full well why, from a scientific point
of view, the cases might hereafter have to be considered together,
without at all implicating Mr. Duguid, because the most important
question for solution by the movement at the present moment is,
whether the mediums are not constantly under the influence of the
spirits, even when they are supposed to be in their normal state. In
other words, whether they are not as completely under their power at
| all times, as a biological sensitive is when under the hands of a mes-
| merist, although to the observers he may appear to possess complete
control of all his faculties. If this is the case, the spirits and not the
mediums are as responsible for the misdeeds of the Holmes’ and of
Buguet, as they are for the reproduction of the drawings of Jewish
personages in Cassell’s Family Bible, and the adaptation of them to
alleged Persian history. Mr. Nisbet states that the spirits have all
along said that these drawings were produced from images in the imagi¬
nations of various persons present, a fact which it would have been well
I to have published on the title-page of the book itself; it would have
added much to the value of the book by throwing light upon the nature
of certain spiritual manifestations, it would have been a guide to the
readers, and would have to some extent anticipated the revelations on
the subject brought about by Messrs. Cassell and Co.
j i Those who have had the largest experience at home with the most
|| powerful mediums, are of opinion that at all times the sensitives are
) | strongly under the influence of the spirits, and that whatever they do,
| i the spirits are more responsible for the acts than are the mediums. It
{\ has further been established—as frequently pointed out in these pages—
)! that many of the spirits who produce strong physical manifestations are
( i inveterately untruthful, and sometimes intentionally malevolent, so that
{| anything coming from them should be received with caution. It is not
) i necessarily so with Hafed. It may be that the inaccuracies in the book
| i are incidental to and inseparable from the method of communication.
i)i A serious question, to receive solution in the future, is, whether the
)j spirits about strong physical mediums are drawn to them by affection.
I i In two cases, where this has been studied for years by friends of our
) | strongest physical mediums in their own homes, the conclusion has
)i been drawn that the spirits are not attracted to their sensitives by
| i affection. In a third case it would appear that, for a year or two, they
)| were drawn by affection to the medium, and that subsequently they
) | were not. There is often a community of sensation between a mes-
!: merist and his sensitive; and may it not be possible that a kind of
j reversed action may take place in spiritual mediumship, so that the
| controlling individuality participates in Khe sensations of the medium ?
I If so, perhaps the spirit with earthbound tastes and proclivities has the
power of tasting over again the pleasures of earth through the organism
) | of the medium. We have known the spirits about a medium to go into
| i an ecstacy of delight when the latter had something to eat to which the
11 sensitive was particularly partial. Although physical mediumship is
)i of the utmost value to the spiritual movement, it has dangers which
Ji ought to be manfully investigated and faced. Fortunately, there is
i! another side to this picture of spirit action. When spirits by healing
) | mediumship almost raise the dead, and cure people on beds of sickness
ji where the doctors have entirely failed, there can be no doubt as to the
[good influence at work throughout. Further, when such beautiful
poems are given to the world as those conveyed through Miss Doten’s
mediumship, no doubt can exist as to the beneficence of the power
at work.
The remark about Hafed reviewing his troops, was a quotation from
U what Messrs. Cassell’s representative said at a public meeting, and in
! no way affects the principle at issue. Mr. Nisbet, as the publisher of
h Haftd, was probably aware, while writing the above letter, that the
j| picture in the appendix (page 563) of “Hafed addressing a Persian
)| Audience,” is an outline copy of “ Moses viewing the Promised Land,”
ji as published in No. 40 of the smaller sections of Cassell’s Family Bible.
j| The picture opposite page 209 of Hafed, and there entitled “ The death
jj of the first Persian martyr,” is a tolerably exact copy, as if the spirit
)| artists had the original under his eyes, of the slain Abel in No. 1 of
jj Cassell's Family Bible, but the spirits have added to it what may be
)j defined as a “ pictorial untruth,” namely some manacles attached to the
ji ankles and wrists of the dead man, which of course would have been
i entirely out of place in connection with the death of Abel. These
i numbers of Cassell's Family Bible may be obtained for three-halfpence
ji each. Several other pictures in Hafed site more or less copies of pictures
ji in the same work.
)| In conclusion, there has never been the slightest intention on our part
I to throw any slur upon that excellent medium, Mr. Duguid, or upon
Mr. Nisbet; we clearly and distinctly published words to that effect in
the first article on the subject, and it was quite a matter of surprise,
and of regret, to learn that anybody discovered anything supposed to
have an opposite tendency in the second one. Probably no Spiritualist
! outside Mr. Duguid’s circle thought that any slur was cast upon him,
until the question was raised in their minds by those connected with the
circle itself, the subject having been so much discussed of late whether
the spirits are not responsible for all the acts of very strong physical
mediums. On page 350 of Hafed the spirits claim to be able to govern
the speech of Mr. Duguid, while he is supposed to be in his normal
state. Hafed will probably be a valuable book hereafter in the study of
Spiritualism, as throwing some light upon the nature of some of the
controlling powers, and the sources whence they derive their revelations.
March 10, 187&
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF '■'■THE SPIRITUALIST”
NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, ■ by William Crookes, F.R.8. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spintualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York. U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEi
DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, hy Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Yol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This hook admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic! Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens. Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com-
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols. crown 8vo„ 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
portions to man in the flesh as thev would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
offamous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supernaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism ; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tual ism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. Get
ALLAN KARDEC’S ‘‘SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early lustory of geological
specimens* these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animats as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made.by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala," published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe. is better than any which that poet wrote Iduring the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
, S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. "
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. Gs. Gd.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. Gd.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. Gd.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.  
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS,byBrevior. 9s.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. Gd.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Bev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. Gs. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Gd.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, Gd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Gd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. Gs.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Gd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. Gs.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Gd.) 4s..
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature's Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
“ _ ' „ II.
„III.
„ IV. „ .
„ V „ . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabulh, or Divine Guest . .
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children's Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician : or. Seeds and Fruits of Cri
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
15 a
7 6
6 0
3 G
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
Oriental Religions (Johnson)
d.
24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by The Spiritualist Newsjiaper . , .20
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American Socialisms- (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 A.n. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, hy James
Legge.D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by^James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 .
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown.
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . * 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . .10
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , . .10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR, HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers, is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. Gd.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R, Hazard.
6(1
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of;Spiritualism, by
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” Gd.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis,
is.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young. Gd.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brovior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. Gd.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. B, T.
Ilallock. 2s.
V
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 10, 1876,
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
Committee.
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgen-
stein.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Mrs. Kate Fox-Jencken.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq.,
F.R.S.
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
James Mylne, Esq.
Martin R. Smitli, Esq.
.Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Sir Chas.: Isham, Bart.
Baroness Adelma von Vay.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. Jencken, Esq. M.R.I.
'D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq, M.S
Tel.E.
N. F..Dawe, Esq.
Miss Douglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
Mrs. Honywood.
Secretary and Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr.
Wm. H. Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the
editor. This journal has been a credit and strength to the
movement in every respect. It has been printed in clear type
and on good paper, and has been conducted with ability,
caution, courage, and, public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the present time the paper has been by no
means self-supporting; indeed, during the first three years of
its existence it entailed upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss,
which he bore single-handed. This loss was aggravated by
the fact that, in order the more completely to devote his
attention to the Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison volun¬
tarily relinquished a considerable portion (estimated, upon
reliable information, at an average of not less than £200 per
annum) of the income which he was deriving from literary
work on the Engineer newspaper and other journals. Mr.
Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the past
eight years he has given up one or.two evenings every week
to a practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances.
By his unwearied and intelligent observation he has been
enabled to collect a mass of reliable information as to the facts
and principles of Spiritualism, which fits him in the highest
degree to be the editor of a newspaper devoted to the religious
and scientific aspects of the subject.
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper,
which was inaugurated the year after the appearance of the
Spiritualist, has been annually subsidized by large subscrip¬
tions, which its editor, Mr. Burns, has always called for as
justly, due to his exertions. Whilst we fully acknowledge the
services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism, we
would call attention to' the fact .that no appeal to the public for
help has ever, except upon one occasion, and that fora special
purpose, appeared in the pages of the Spiritucdisi for six years.
The work was done, and the whole expense borne for three of
those years by Mr. Harrison alone; during the last three years
an annual sum of about two hundred pounds has been privately
subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless, greatly
relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but
this in no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrison has for years
cheerfully submitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to
supply to the movement a paper in many, if not in all, respects
worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion that
it is not to the credit of the movement that this pecuniary
loss should be borne alone by Mr. Harrison.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would
doubtless have been forthcoming, as; they have been for some
years past in answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since
its establishment—but he has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in addition to
the existing Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall take
the form of a testimonial to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is
hoped, may to some extent, relieve him from the heavy
sacrifices which he has made in money, time, and work in the
interests of Spiritualism.
Friends desiring to contribute to this fund are requested
to send in their names to Martin R. Smith Esq., care of Miss
Kislingbury 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
List op Subscriptions to February 18th, 1876.
Mr. Martin R. Smith..;     £30 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn    50 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze   1  50 0 0
Mr. James Mylne      40 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder   20 0 0
A Friend     20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Tod      20 0 0
Comte de Bullet      20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe      15 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.      10 0 0
Mr J. M. Gully, M.D        10 0 0
Prmce Paskievitsch .;...V..:;    6 7 7
Prince Gagarin       6 7 7
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein .   600
F. S. A     JUS  5 5 0
Mr. C. F. Varley, F.R.S 5 0 0
Mr. Eugene.Crowell, M.D 5 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe         5 0. 0
Mr. Charles Massey    5 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald_   5 0 0
A. Friend       5 0 0
Mr. A. Tod '. (Second Subscription) 5 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn  „ „ 5 0 0
Mr. C. C. Massey .;.   „ „ 5 0 0
Mr. A. Calder      ; „ ■ „ 6 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  „ , , „ 6 0 0
F. S. A.       „ 5 0 0
Signor Damiani  .'.....i.........7............ 3 3 0
Mrs. Honywood 2 2 0
Mr. Morell Theobald ! ;... 2 2 0
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S     2 2 0
Mr. S. Chinnery    {..? 2 2 0
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D   220
“ Ennesfallen’’     2 2 0
Three Friends     2 2 0
Mr. A. L. Henderson           2 2 0
Col. Olcott.        2 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory ..............V..........   2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent    2 0 0
Dr. Baikie ..           2 0 0
Miss Douglas      2 0 0
M. H. C   I      2 0 0
M. Gustave de Veh       2 0 0
Mr. Geo. Sutherland..,.        2 0 0
Miss Anna Blackwell    2 0 0
Mr. Keningale Cook  1 11 6
Mr. Geo. King        110
Mr. F. A. Binney     110
Mr. J. Coates     1 1 0.
Mrs. Maltby            110
Mrs. Kislingbury     1 10
Mr. B. W. Pycock      | 110
Mr. B. Coleman        1 1 0
Mr. R. Fitton   1 1 0
Major Menars    110
Mr. John Lament   110
Mr. Archibald Lamont     110
Mr. T. B. Griffin        110
Mr. J. B. Stones  110
Mr. G. W. F. Wiese ....;     110
Rev. W. Whitear     110
Miss Whitear  I    110
Mr. C. E. Williams       1 1 0
Mr. A. Glendinning  ;   110
Mr. H. Withall      110
Captain James    110
Mr. F. W. Percivai..     110
Mr. Christian Reimers       110
Mr. Thos. Hinde..... *    110
Mr. Thos; Grant'..'.........;.;  110
Mrs. Geo. Neville      110
Mr.'G. R. Tapp'      110
Mr. J. Clark Ferguson    110
Mrs. Woodforde...    110
me t. m; Simkiss       110
A Friend      .;    110
A Friend, per Miss Williamson    11 0
Mr. W. P. Adshead  ...*.      110
Mr. D. H. Wilson      110
Mrs. M.T. Wood ....} ;   110
Mr. John Scott        1 1 0
Mr. C.T. Hook   1 1 0
Mr. W. White    1 1 0
Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy     1 1 0
Dr. W. Hitchman      1 1 0
Mr. E. D. Rogers       i  10 0
Mr. R. Corbet      10 0
M.B       .....'    10 0
Baroness von Vay     10 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan    10 0
Miss E. D. Ponder      10 0
A Subscriber      1 0 0
Amicus   1 0 0
Mr. A. C. Swinton ;  1 0 0
M.A. (Oxon.)..       10 0
Mr. J. H. Gledstanes...    10 0
Mr. William Oxley '    10 0
Mr. Geo. Lee       0 10 6
Mr. W. E. Bassett     0 10 6
Mr. T. H. Edmands      ;...,  0 10 6
Mr. Aaron Franklin      0 10 6
Mrs. Aaron Franklin      0 10 6
Mr. J.S. Crisp    .........a....'.............;... 0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald    !  0 10 6
Mr. St. George Stock    0 10 0
Mr. Geo. Bh ton '. 0 10^0
Mr. G. H. Potts...  .'   0 10 0
J. F. C       0 10 0
Mr. E, Storey          0 10 6
Mr. J. Deane       0 10 6
C. S. S  ;... 0 10 0
a. c.     ;   '  0 10 0
A. B. O        0 8 6
Mr. Algernon Joy      0 5 0
Miss Kislingbury       0 5 0
“Peterboro”      ;    0 5 0
A. O. W.   ;........       0 5 0
Miss Emily FitzGerald     0 5 0
A Clergyman        0 5 0
A Reader of T/ie Spiritualist    0 5 0
Mr. Wm. Robinsdn          0 5 0
Mr. E, Pearce    050
“Mercy”        0 0
An Old Friend...   0 5 0
Miss Mackay      0 5 0
The Misses Young ;  0 5 0
V           0 6 0
A Well-wisher    ;   050
Mr. Young   ..;    0 5 0
Mr. James Kilbraith.    0 5 0
Small sums         0 5 3
Guarantee Fund      200 0 0
Just published in one volume, handsomely got up, and printed
on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY
OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an
Angel in the tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—TheUnity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences
in the Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
, 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
, 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
, 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
, 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
, 11.—The Lost Orb. Part 1.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13;—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 80.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an ac¬
count of the Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby,
with her experiences in the other life, up through the states
to the tenth in which she is now in, and commumcates as the
Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a
full account concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo-
printed, of the Angel, the original of which was produced by
the direct operation of Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of are
of such thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense
to make it a handsome volume, and not being published with
any regard to. profit, it is hoped that a large circulation may
be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s.
On sale at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38,
Great Russell-street, London, W.C.   7
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
JO U.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.C. .
rpHE ALPHA l OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
1 OF THE HUMAN MIND; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author
E. N. Dennys. “ We can call to mind few books fit to be its
fellows.’’—Athenxum. “It contains more truth, poetry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read;
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, with a beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 3s. 6d.
rPHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
JL PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author pf “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the FutureStand up! I myself also am a Man;" The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity ? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “ one
thing" desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
The Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
‘•THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES” and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works as widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street,. London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritualism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, London, W.O.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics oi
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
LPHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
J- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace,, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden) ; The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchtenberg:
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent; (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Ishani, Bart.; Mrs. Ross -Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
CouncUlor, and Chevalier of the Crder of St. Stanislas JSt. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dimphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edm.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Cxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”]; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.L, Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. >H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Klsling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ’(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United;Kingdom, 10s. lOd
To residents in the United States, ’4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomeiy-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager
Spiiutdalist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Londan
W.C.”
[December, 1875.]
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ayo
, Maria-lane, London, E.C.
