No. 5.—Vol. I. LONDON : FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1870. f5oe
THE HUMAN “ DOUBLE.”
The most perplexing of all the phenomena of Spiri¬
tualism are perhaps those in which the spirits of persons
still living in the body have manifested or made them¬
selves visible at spirit circles. At one. of the meetings of
the Gower-street conference, this subject occupied the
whole evening, and we have notes of the whole of
the proceedings, so that out of the valuable information
given at those meetings, a portion has been saved from
the general loss. The following is the testimony given
by Mrs. Emma Hardinge in her opening address at the
meeting of the conference just mentioned :—
Mrs. Hardinge said that she would state some
facts that had come under her own observation
in connection with the subject of the “ double.” The
Kev. S. Binning, of New York, who is now living—
anybody could write to him to get the facts authenti¬
cated—was eighteen years ago, a Wesleyan Methodist;
he afterwards became a Spiritualist, and joined what
was then known as the “ New York Circle ” (consisting
of about twenty individuals), which had several branch
circles connected with other towns. One of these
circles met one night at Troy, 160 miles from New
York. There were twenty persons present. Accord¬
ing to their rules each member had to be in the room
twenty minutes before the circle began sitting, and to
stop the sitting out. One Saturday' evening, when both
circles, so far apart, were sitting, the Rev. S. Binning
was expected in Troy. He did not come at the set
time, and they began to sit at eight o’clock, when a
ring was heard at the door. Two of the members rose,
and answered the bell; Mr. Binning entered, much to
their surprise, as they had ceased to expect his coming
that time. He muttered some' indistinct words, and
pushed past them in the hall passage, opened the door
where the circle was sitting, and was beheld by eighteen
of the members. He again spoke indistinctly, and
quitted the room. The two who had been to the door
then came in and asked for him—“ Had they not seen
him again at the door ?” . “No!” They searched the
passage and the house, but he could not be found.1 Next
day, a telegram was received from him, stating that he
was seriously ill, and could not attend. He had started
the telegram from New York the night before, but
owing to bad weather the wires had met with an acci¬
dent, and it did not reach its destination till the follow¬
ing morning. He stated afterwards, that at the very
time he was seen his thoughts were earnestly fixed,
upon the circle, and he felt anxious they should get his
message. In this case of the “double’’it would be
seen that three senses were appealed to—sight, touch,
and hearing! "
,■. Another case occurred in a family of the name of
Horchenbach at Wisconsin. The aged mother of the
family had bought some land, and with somewhat of
the childishness of extreme old age, was in. the habit
of going very often to see it on a Sunday. One week she
bought a new dress, and determined to first wear it
when visiting her land next Sunday; but she was'ill,
and at the usual time of paying her visit was seized
with a swoon, from which she recovered in about half-
an-hour. Her son, who fhad fetched the doctor, then
went back with him to the inn where he had left his
horse. The landlord asked him who was ill, and they
told him. He said, “ That is quite impossible, for she
passed through my back kitchen, and went out to see
her land as usual.” The landlady also declared she
had seen her, and described her new dress, which had
never yet been worn. A lad here came in from the
land, and said he had seen Madame Dorchenbach there.
She had been seen by three persons.
Another case occurred in Salem, Illinois. I was
staying at the house of a lady friend whose last hour
was approaching. She grieved at the absence of all
her children; especially of one, a little cripple, and
bemoaned herself bitterly. I left her at four o’clock
and called again late at night, when she was better,
and said—“I have seen my children, and dear little
Jessie sitting on the grass in the midst of her sisters,
playing with roses.” She passed away for the better
world. Some days afterwards we learned by letter
that at the time when she saw her children, little
Jessie, the cripple, who had been put out of doors to
play, was heard to scream. Her sisters ran out, and
found her covered with roses. She said she had seen
her mother, and although there were rose bushes not
far off, they were much too far away for little Jessie to
reach them and pluck them for herself. These sisters
are all now living, and can corroborate the facts.
“ Some five years ago I was lecturing in Dickson,
Illinois, and one evening had some visitors to see me.
In the middle of our conversation I felt so weary that
I asked permission to leave my friends for a short time.
It was twenty minutes to one o’clock. I went into my
chamber and looked out upon the broad prairie, and
there I saw a spirit, which did not surprise me, as I
have been in the habit, of seeing them from infancy.
He was a sullen, strange-looking spirit, with a very
woful face, sitting in aJchair, appearing to look out of a
window something like my own, and looked as if
mimicking, in an unpleasant manner, my own actions.
Then I saw him draw a knife across his throat, and
nearly sever his head from his body. I gazed for nearly
five minutes on the horrid spectacle, and I could see all
the details, even to the complete anatomy of the visible
portions of the severed head. I returned to the parlour
and told my visitors what I had seen (here Mrs. Har¬
dinge gave the names of some of those who were pre¬
sent at the time), and shortly afterwards I had a letter
from one of them, who is a Government official, stating
that the postmaster of Dickson had committed suicide
four days later, but in exactly the same way in all the
minute particulars as I had witnessed the act. Several
other persons also wrote to me, stating that the details
of my vision were perfect. There are many in this
country who have proved to me most conclusively, again
and again, that they have beheld me at a'time when I
have been distant from them, while I have been un¬
conscious of thus manifesting myself.”
Hoole was with us, like a carpenter planing deals; but
most commonly it knocked thrice and stopped, and then
thrice again, and so many hours together. We per¬
suaded your father to speak, and try if any voice would
be heard. One night, about six o’clock, he went into
the nursery in the dark, and at first heard several deep
groans, then knocking. He adjured it to speak, if it
had power, and tell him why it troubled his house ; but
no voice was heard, but it knocked thrice aloud. Then
he questioned it if it were Sammy; and bid it, if it
were, and could not speak, knock again ; but it knocked
no more that night, which made us hope it was not
against your death.
“ Thus it continued till the 28th of December, when
it loudly knocked (as your father used to do at the gate)
in the nursery, and departed. We have various con¬
jectures what this may mean. Eor my own part, I fear
nothing, now you are safe at London hitherto; and I
hope God will still preserve you. Though sometimes I
am inclined to think my brother is dead. Let me know
your thoughts on it. S. W.”
Letter II.—From Mr. S. Wesley to his Eather.
1 January 30, Saturday.
“ Honoured Sir,—My mother tells me a very strange
sort of disturbances in your house. I wish I could have
some more particulars from you. I would thank Mr.
Hoole if he would favour me with a letter concerning it.
Not that I want to be confirmed myself in the belief of
it, but for any other person’s satisfaction. My mother
sends to me to know my thoughts of it, and I cannot
think at all of any interpretation. Wit, I fancy, might
find many, but wisdom none, Your dutiful and loving
son, “ S. Wesley.”
SPIRIT-RAPPING IN JOHN WESLEY’S FAMILY.
IN TEN PARTS.—PART FOUR.
Letter I.—To Mr. Samuel Wesley,/rowi his Mother.
'“January 12,1716-17.
“ Dear Sam,—This evening we were agreeably sur¬
prised with your packet, which brought the welcome
news of your being alive, after we had been in the
greatest panic imaginable, almost a month, thinking
either you were dead, or one of your brothers had by
some misfortune been killed.
“ The reason of our fears is as follows :—On the first
of December our maid heard at the door of the dining¬
room several dismal groans, like a person in extremes,
at the point of death. We gave little heed to her rela¬
tion, and endeavoured to laugh her out of her fears.
Some nights (two or three) after, several of the family
heard a strange knocking in divers places, usually three
or four knocks at a time, and then staid a little. This
continued every night for a fortnight ;" sometimes it was
in the garret, but most commonly in the nursery, or
green chamber. We all heard it but your father, and
I was not willing he should be informed of it, lest he
should fancy it was against his own death, which/in¬
deed, we all apprehended. But when it began to be so
troublesome, both day and night, that few or none of
the family durst be alone, I resolved to tell him of it,
being minded he should speak to it. At first he would
not believe but somebody did it to alarm us; but the
night after, as soon as he was in bed, it knocked loudly
nine times, just by his bedside. He rose, and went to
see if he could find out what it was, but could see
nothing. Afterwards he heard it as the rest.
“ One night it made such a noise in the room over
our heads as if several people were walking, then run
up and down stairs, and was so outrageous that we
thought the children would be frighted; so your father I
and I rose, and went down in the dark to light a
candle. Just as we came to the bottom of the broad
stairs, having hold of each other, on my side there
seemed as if somebody had emptied a bag of money at
my feet; and on his, as if all the bottles under the
stairs (which were many) had been dashed in a
thousand pieces. We passed through the hall into the
kitchen, and got a candle, and went to see the children,
whom we found asleep.
“ The next night your father would get Mr. Hoole to
lie at our house, and we all sat together till one or two
o’clock in the morning, and heard the knocking as
usual. Sometimes it would make a noise like the
winding up of a jack ; at other times, as that night Mr.
Letter III.—From Mr. S. Wesley to his Mother.
if, Dear Mother,—Those who are so wise: as not to
believe any supernatural occurrences, though ever so
well attested, could find a hundred questions to ask
about those strange noises you wrote me an account of;
but for my part, I know not what question to put,
which, if answered, would confirm me more in the belief
of what you tell me. Two or three I have heard from
others. Was there never a new maid or man in the
house that might play tricks ? Was there nobody above
in the garrets when the walking was there ? Did all
the family hear it together when they were in one room,,
or at one time ?. Did it seem to all to he in the same
place, at the same time? Could not cats, or rats, or
dogs be the sprites ? Was the whole family asleep
when my father and you went down stairs ? Such
doubts as these being replied to, though they could notj
as God Himself assures us, convince them who believe
not Moses and the Prophets, yet would strengthen such
as do believe. As to my particular opinion concerning
the events foreboded by these noises, L cannot, I must
confess, form any. I think, since it was not permitted
to speak, all guesses must be vain. Therend of spirits’’
actions is yet more hidden than that of men, and. even
this latter puzzles the most subtle politicians. That we
may be struck so as to prepare seriously for any ill,
may, it is possible, be one design of Providence. It is
surely our duty and wisdom to do. Dear mother, I beg
your blessing on your dutiful and affectionate son,
“ S. Wesley.
Jan. 19, 1716-7, Saturday,
Dean’s-yard, Westminster.”
“I expect a particular account from every one.”
Letter IY.—From Mrs. Wesley to her son Samuel.
“Jan. 25 or 27, 1716-7.
“ Dear Sam,—Though I am not one of those that
will believe nothing supernatural, but am rather inclined
to think there would be frequent intercourse between
good spirits and us, did not our deep lapse into sen¬
suality prevent it; yet I was a great while ere I could
credit anything of what the children and servants re¬
ported concerning the noises they heard in several parts
of our house. Nay, after I heard them myself, I was
willing to persuade myself and them that it was only
rats or weasels that disturbed us; and having been
formerly troubled with rats, which were frighted away
by sounding a horn, I caused a horn to be procured, and
made them blow it all over the house. But from that
night they began to blow, the noises were more loud
and distinct, both day and night, than before; and that
night we rose and went down I was entirely convinced
34
THE SPIRITUALIST
Jan. 14, 1870.
that it was beyond the power of any human creature to
make such strange and various noises.
“ As to your questions, I will answer them particu¬
larly : but withal, I desire my answers may satisfy
none but yourself; for I would not have the matter
imparted to any. We had both man and maid new this
last Martinmas, yet I do not believe either of them
occasioned the disturbance, both for the reason above-
mentioned, and because they were more affrighted than
anybody else. Besides, we have often heard the noises
when they were in the room by us; and the maid par¬
ticularly was in such a panic that she was almost in¬
capable of all business, nor durst ever go from one room
to another, or stay by herself a minute, after it began
to be dark.
“ The man, Robert Brown, whom you well know,
was most visited by it, lying in the garret, and has been
often frighted down barefoot, and almost naked, not
daring to stay alone to put on his clothes; nor do I
think, if he had power, he would be guilty of such vil-
lany. When the walking was heard in the garret,
Robert was in bed in the next room, in a sleep so sound,
that he never heard your father and me walk up and
down, though we walked not softly I am sure. All the
family has heard it together, in the same room, at the
same time, particularly at family prayers. It always
seemed to all present in the same place at the same
time; though often before any could say, It is here,
it would remove to another place.
All the family, as well as Robin, were asleep when
your father and I went down stairs, nor did they wake
in the nursery when we held the candle close by them;
only we observed that Hetty trembled exceedingly in
her sleep, as she always did, before the noise awaked
her. It commonly was nearer her than the rest, which
she took notice of; and was much frightened, because
she thought it had a particular spite at her. I could
multiply particular instances, but I forbear. I believe
your father will write to you about it shortly. What¬
ever may be the design of Providence in permitting
these things, I cannot say. Secret things belong to
God. But I entirely agree with you, that it is our
wisdom and duty to prepare seriously for all events.
“ S. Wesley.”
A LECTURE BY MRS. HARDINGE.
The following is a slightly abbreviated report of a
lecture delivered by Mrs. Emma Hardinge, a few Sun¬
days ago, in the Music Hall, Boston, United States, and
published in the Bann&r of Light of the first of this
month:—
“ Entering upon a fresh scene of inquiry to-day, we
advance one step further, and question, Who am I ? A
single identity amid the vast masses of humanity, who
on every side of me present structures as grand, micro¬
cosms as complete, powers as mighty as mine; in the
midst of a multitude all fashioned with equal wisdom,
beneficence' and care—Who am I ? Whether I place
myself on the lowest round of the ladder amid the out¬
casts of the city streets, or picture myself achieving the
highest conditions of human greatness, still there are
minds—many higher, some lower than my own. Let
me once more turn my thoughts inward, and through
my own special identity strive to solve the question:
Who am I ? I will remove myself in imagination from
amid the surrounding masses, .and stand alone in the
wilderness, far from the throng of my fellow-men, with
none to rival me in power or beauty, save the blooming
flowers, the sighing wind, and the waving grass, living
isolated and unmatched. Here will I question of my¬
self, Who am I ? As a mere external being I stand
possessed of all the powers which constitute the gran¬
deur of humanity; but I stand alone beneath the cold
blast of winter, or the scorching heat of summer, with
no one to construct me a shelter, none to fashion my
garments; my feeble hand unaided cannot execute these
duties. I have neither the architect’s skill, nor the
weaver’s craft. I can neither build nor clothe me in
the fabrics which the hands of so many artisans must
help to complete. My unaided power cannot accumulate
the implements of use, nor get together all those condi¬
ments for which the whole civilized globe is taxed to
spread the table of luxury. I cannot reproduce the
forms of beauty which the painter imprints upon the
canvas, nor hew out the marble into the living glory of
the sculptor’s art. I stand a poor solitary unit, and
what am I alone ? As the snows of winter silver my
head, and I bend beneath the infirmities of age, where
are the kind hands of youth and strength to uphold my
fading powers ? Where the loving lips that shall whisper
consolation in mine ears ? Where the friendly eyes that
shall look on me with assurances of undying love, when
I tread the silent valley that leads me to the unknown
land of souls ? Living alone, dying alone. Who am I ?
I must be one amongst my kind—and hence I must hie
me back to the multitudes who absorb me—and amongst
them endeavour to find my identity and my place,
though it should be one of the least that make up the
sum of humanity.
“ How I return, and now once more resume my in¬
quiries. I place myself on the lowest round of the
ladder of civilized existence. I behold myself plodding
through the city streets, where all I behold speaks of
plenty, wealth, ay, even luxury and splendour— a beg¬
gar, homeless, friendless, alone; I gaze with wistful
face into the eyes of every passer-by, seeking one to
whom I may appeal for bread. Hungry and fainting,
I ask of some wealthy stranger, but he spurns me from
him, and rudely denies me the poor pittance which I
seek. Who am I, that I ask alms of him ? Who is he
that he should thus deny me ? He is God’s steward,
entrusted with wealth and plenty, but only to be dis¬
pensed again to necessitous fellow-men like me. He is
God’s vicegerent, commissioned to feed His poor. I
have tempted him, and he falls. I have demanded of
him the store with which God trusted him. and he has
failed in his commission. For this act my mark is set
on him; his lack of charity to me is a failure in his
duty—a sign on him which shall remain forever. Un¬
known by name yet in eternal destiny I am known to
him as some one forever. We may never meet again;
I may look upon his face no more, but forever and
forever he carries the stamp of my individuality through
the temptation, to good or evil, which I became to him.
“ I pass on, and another gives me the alms which he
has denied. We, too, part, perhaps forever, but the
deed of kindness wrought on me can never die. On
that man’s fate my need has written mercy, and charity,
and through my agency there has a record gone up to
heaven for him, and I have been the means. Though
we may never more stand face to face on earth, yet in
the great day of account, when God numbers up His
jewels, that stranger’s deed wrought out through me,
the beggar, shall be remembered. I am something then
to him. And to both these strangers I am a part of
destiny.
“ I pass on still further. There are curious eyes
gazing upon me; there are inquiring lips, demanding
of me my history; they give me neither alms nor scorn,
but they listen to my story, and in the organization of
city life they cite me as an example—the pauper, and
to them the representative of pauperism; they leave
me to devise some schemes for remedying the condition
of the poor, so that in all the reforms suggested by my
condition, how much of consequence I have become to
my kind!
“ I am no more the mere waif on the ocean of life.
Society changes, and people think of and care for me.
Though I know not my identity, yet I am one of those
who form the sub-stratum of society. Beneath their
feet my tears are falling ;* they tread upon my woes,
and shape their pathways in my griefs. I am a motor
in life’s noblest schemes of reformation, and when the
world shall be made wiser, and society more equal, my
name shall be found recorded in the series of causation.
Pauper as I am, when night’s shadows fall around my
way, I, like more favoured beings, seek some place of
rest, and, no matter where I sleep or lay me down, be¬
neath the tattered banner of my wretchedness and rags
there cluster round me some who love or own me.
Perhaps it is a father, mother, or relative; perhaps
some poor companion, but some one there is who knows
and cares for me, to help me; and beneath the ragged
vest burns human love as tender as fills the heart which
throbs beneath the silken robe.
1 Ho ! in my houseless wanderings I am not alone.
There are loving eyes that looked upon my own in
unconscious infancy; there are kind voices still to
bid me welcome, though it be but to the shelter of the
wayside ; there is ever some one to love me, and for me
to love. I am something to my kind, and millions such
as I exist ; millions, that walk the city streets—some
to love, and some to hate—but all to make some mark
upon the eternal page of human destiny.
“ I pass on. I am now the toiling operative; there
are thousands of rough coats, and blistered hands, and
breaking backs and hearts like mine. Who knows me
among the masses, as I carry my hod, or wield my
hammer, and toil from early dawn to sinking sun ?
Who cares for me ? I am weary now, and seek my
humble home, and as I go, I look upon the various
buildings of the splendid city, the bridges, dykes, roads,
and canals which my hands, or the hands of such as I,
have helped to form. Who am I ? Why, I and mine
are the thews and sinews, nerves and muscles of the
wo. Id, and through our veins rushes the tide of power,
which brings the result of perfected civilization. They
do not write my name on the shining roll of fame, or
emblazon it on monuments of bronze or stone ;. but the
world is rife with me, and temples of worship, galleries
of art, lyceums of science and works of use, are monu¬
mental tributes to my deeds and the deeds of such as I.
We are all and each identities in the midst of masses;
we can each say to the world, This I have done for you
—-what have you done for me ?
“ Let me enter my humble dwelling. Eyerywhere
I see the good and use another’s hands have wrought;
the planks beneath my feet have been felled from
primeval woods, and sawed and laid down for my use ;
the hands of toil erected the walls around me ; around
me are the images of well-known faces which the sun-
god majesty of the heavens have traced for me—faces of
loved ones, drawn by the magic finger of the sunbeam;
the jet of flame which lights my humble home is a
mighty gospel, written by God Himself; He laid the
foundations of the coal in the ancient forests, and, as
they fell, He packed them closely, during the process of
ages, upon the floor of the heated earth, banked them
up with mountains, and, in time, came man*), to drag
this wealth of treasure into light, and through veins
and arteries beneath the city’s streets it circulates,
until it gleams with equal splendour as a jet of flame,
in the abode of the artisan and the prince alike; the
table is spread for me with the products of another’s
toil; the fragrant tea that now invigorates my frame,
was gathered in far-distant lands; the spices, from
islands of the sea, are here; bread, from ears of wheat,
prepared by toil and labour; roots and fruits, gathered
by many hands for me. The poor rough cloth that
covers my board, is woven by the same machinery that
spins the fabric for the richest lady. All of man’s
toil I share in. I cannot number up the million hands
that have been busy for my comfort. I cannot tell the
gospel of eternal use mapped out around me; for in all
the perfections of the age in vast machinery, and all
that is useful in civilization, I partake with all man¬
kind. My toil, too, blesses] some who are dependent on
me—an aged sire, or tender wife or child—for I am not
alone, poor toiling operative though I be; this world is
my world, and its heart-affections are as truly mine as
thine, oh sovereign of my nation.
*****
“ And now I must pass away, and whether beggar,
artisan or king, poet, player, merchant or musician, I
must die. To-day I am—to-morrow I shall be for¬
gotten. Hot so. Whatever has been my use will never
die. Whatever place I have filled will send down its
uses through all time. The works of my hands will
still live on, or prompt men to imitation or improve¬
ment. Still, who am I ? Granted that I may leave
the world made better than I found it; granted that its
wheels roll smoother for my labours, what is that to
me ? And when I am gone and my labours left behind,
where am I gone ? and what of the soul that enabled
me to become the minister of use ? When my foot no
more treads the earth, when I am not, what for me ?
And here it is that my speculation fails, and the dark
cloud of mystery settles down upon my future. Only as
the hand of the spirit opens it; only as I shall Tcnow that
I shall live beyond the uses of the passing hour; only as
I can realize that I may carry fruit with me to another
life, will the uses of this be found. Beggar though I
have been, crushed down beneath the load of poverty,
when I pass out to the vast unknown, what shall I
carry with me ? I know that the prince carries not
with him the value of his shroud. What my place or
mission may have been among men, earth alone can
answer. But earth has ended for me, when the heart
ceases to beat, the light is gone from the eye, and the
curtain is dropped forever ! Oh raise it, lift it, souls of
the mighty dead ! rend it asunder, oh spirits of the im¬
mortals ! leave me not in the dark mystery of material
existence only! Religion answers me with the faint
voices of the long ago. which have come so far through
the arches of time that their echoes are lost; and when
I ask of the fathers for light, they answer me with
strange, vague words. Sometimes they tell me I shall
go to the Great Spirit, far off in some dim, mysterious
land; sometimes, that I shall sleep the sleep that knows
no waking till some distant day of wrath and doom;
sometimes they answer me with the cold external voice
of science, and point to the fires extinguished, the mate¬
rial form fading into decay with no higher result than
memory of its perished loveliness; sometimes they
whisper of a life to come, but never tell me that my
uses shall follow me—that the life I have lived on earth
I shall carry with me to that land beyond.
“ But behold the gates are opened to me, and there I
see stored up in the spirit-world all that I did on earth,
and there I can trace the results of every deed I’ve done;
there I may discover the resignation of the beggar, the
tears and sighs of the poor. I see them woven into
those crowns of glory and robes of transfigured beauty.
I behold all treasured up; the works of the operative,
the struggles of the player, the ideas of poet, sculptor
and artist—all preserved.
“ All that we have done is there; I know that after
I have fulfilled my mission I still shall be the man I
was on earth, for I shall carry all my manhood with
me. It only remains for me to return to my spirit and
question whether I have made the most of its endow¬
ments, and put to its best uses the life which has been
entrusted to me. Have I borne as best I might the
cross of the beggar ? Have I done my duty as the
toiling labourer? Have I, as the poor player, acted
well my part ? Have I striven for goodness ? Have I
sought to help some other more feeble than myself?
Have I, as the merchant, faithfully discharged God’s
commission entrusted to me ? Have I been the soldier
of the Lord in whatever place He has commissioned
me to fight ? Who am I ? It matters not what round
of the ladder my feet may tread—the lowest or the
highest; the beggar is of as much worth as the king,
the poet as the mightiest one who gives him patronage.
Wherever the foot of man may tread, wherever he can
toil, there is his mission marked out in the woof of
existence. It is enough that around me lies my duty
and my use ; it is enough that I have seen that within
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 14, 1870.
never lost. If I have played well the part—however
small or large—which He has given me, I shall surely
reap my harvest in eternity; and not only so, hut I
shall continue the uses commenced on earth, and rise to
others of which earth is hut the corner stone. Since
bright spirits have opened up the view of the land
beyond, I have learned that nothing on earth is lost in
the heavens eternal—for pain and toil and grief there
is compensation, glory for the thorns of martyrdom,
and a crown for every cross. I will return to my life
of effort, and never more may the voice of questioning
murmur pass my lips. I live for ever; I shall be an
immortal spirit; and though here none may know like
my Heavenly Father who I am, in the thought that I
live for ever all my destiny here and hereafter is accom¬
plished.”
Reports of iSHwtmgs.
[When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this Journal, non-
Spiritualists should understand that spirits out of the body are wise or
foolish, truthful or untruthful, just the same as spirits in the body. More¬
over, they are but individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of j
a spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by comparing the state¬
ments of many spirits, it may in time be possible to discover in what points
they agree, and to sift out the unreliable communications. Many spirits
cannot see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some of them
are thus in different states of life, it does not follow that contradictory
messages are therefore untruthful. Spirits are of different religions, conse-
seguently their teachings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this journal to report
facts, iso we are in no way responsible for the religions, scientific, or any other
teachings given by individual spirits,']
SEANCES AT THE SPIRITUAL LIBRARY.
CRUSHED TO DEATH—THE CONSEQUENCES OF CRIME—REMORSE IN THE
SPIRIT WORLD—RESTITUTION AND REPENTANCE—THE EQUILIBRIUM OF
THE MENTAL FACULTIES—PROPER NAMES IN TRANOE-MEDIUMSHIP.
On Friday evening, December 31st, the ordinary weekly
seance was held at 15, Southampton-row, High Holborn.
Twenty-two ladies and gentlemen were present.
Master Selwood, a physical medium, being in attendance,
a few of those present were formed into a circle for physical
manifestations. After the lapse of considerable time, genuine
raps and table motions were obtained, but under conditions in
no way satisfactory to strangers. Manifestly it is necessary
that the medium should be well developed beforehand, that
the time of a large company may not be wasted in witnessing
weak manifestations.
Mr. J. J. Morse, medium, then passed into the trance state,
and the first spirit influence acting upon him made him cry
bitterly. The spirit gave the name of Ellen Jones ; she said
that she had been crushed to death at Bristol, and that her
father was a carrier living at Weston-Super-Mare. Her con¬
trol of the medium only lasted for about two minutes, and she
said—“ My friends cry and grieve a great deal about me.
So many think about me. Can this be death? I wish
father were here. Oh, do for pity’s sake tell father that
Ellen’s not dead. Do tell him.”
She was promised that her message should be delivered, and
she left the medium ; the intense grief displayed during this
short communication, made the scene a painful one.
A hard heavy look then came over the face of the medium,
and the next spirit said:—It very often strikes the minds of the
listeners at these meetings, and the readers of the accounts of
what transpires at these meetings, something like this—“ What
fools those spirits must be to comeback and tell people all about
their past lives ; if I had done a dirty action and found that I
was obliged to wipe out the smudge, I would do it in silence and
try to do my best to put the wrong right, but I would not go
to preach about my wrong-doing.” Let such people enjoy
that frame of mind as long as they can, and that will not be
long ; it is a state of mind that will not last for ever. They
will become wiser, and do the same thing themselves, and lay
themselves open to the same charge. It is not with any desire
to show ourselves in brighter colours individually to you that
we come. We don’t come to tell you these little histories to
make ourselves appear as saints in your eyes. The motive we
have is a deeper one ; it is to give you a practical lesson, so
that you shall see for yourselves, reflected in the mirror of
your minds, the consequences of your acts whether they be
good or bad. It is to show you the certainty of the curse
coming home to roost, of the dove returning with the olive
branch of love in its mouth, that we come back to tell you
these histories. With that short preface, I’ll now give you
mine, and you’ll say as the scroll unfolds itself, that it is
a somewhat strange one. The society of the world you move
in knew nought of the story. When I was ushered into the
physical life, and as I grew up to be a child, a temper sullen
and morose manifested itself; underneath this sullenness was
a fierce vindictive nature—the nature of the cat that glides
stealthily along the ground, fair to look at, yet when the prey
is within its grasp the eyes dilate, the claws come forth, and
the spring is made. I was feared and hated in my childhood’s
day. I was strong physically ; few could match me in physical
sports, and as my physical nature was well-known, all were
very careful that they did not offend me. I rose to no height
in earthly life, but I became acquainted with a young girl
who in every way was unfitted to share a life with me. She
saw this, and after a little time we parted—she with fair
promises and kindly wishes to myself. But every kind wish was
but a burning stone to my nature, and I swore a deadly ven¬
geance, not for disappointed love, but for disappointed calcula¬
tions, for I always prided myself that I could see so far ahead,
and my pride was wounded. Some of you know what it is to
have the pride touched to the quick. No opportunity presented
itself for vengeance for a long time. She met with another, and
according to the laws of your land became his wife. He was
called away from home, and was expected to be absent for
three days, and here the opportunity came that I had been
watching for for several years then. “ Vengeance ” is an easy
word to say, but how painstaking are we in our endeavours to
accomplish a'thing of that description. I knew her brother,
and you may be sure that I had no love for him. He called to
visit his sister while her husband was away, and while I was
drinking I had witnessed the call and the departure. While I
was drinking it was easy to improve upon the hint, and to set
a story afloat in our community, and these things slide glibly
from the tongue. He returned. His wife was all smiles and
happiness. But here and there he heard a rumour; bit by bit
his confidence was usurped. He dared not accuse her, for he
had no proof, but little by little he took to drink, and when
once a man does that, he goes down the hill very rapidly.
With all his drunkenness he still hid from his wife the real
cause of his discontent, till from drinking he came to quar¬
relling about the slightest thing, then to cursing, and from
cursing to blows, and from ill-usage and starvation (for he
was carried to the poorhouse), he slowly drove her to her
grave. He rapidly carried himself after her, for no mortal
frame could bear the usage he threw upon his. All this gave
me a fiendish joy I could scarcely conceive. It was I who
plied him with liquor ; it was I who excited to frenzy while
appearing to calm him ; it was I who did it all. But he passed
on. The children—there were two—became beggars, and
were charged to the parish. One night, by some strange
means, my walk led me to their old house, and I felt a strange
uncomfortable feeling; I don’t know why, but his wife’s face
seemed to be before me. and I felt that I was a murderer. I
had no creature to whom I could confide my sorrow, because
all feared and hated me. Then I sank deeper into the curse
of drunkenness, until at last I became a wretched outcast
myself. I had never married. What employment I had was
taken from me because of my dissolute habits, till no one
would give me a kind word or a crust of bread. I wandered
through the country. I was a monster, the lowest of the low;
I was glad to herd with thieves and murderers for the sake of
getting a meal; but everybody seemed to give it under pro¬
test ; it seemed indeed as if the mark of Cain had been set
upon my brow. Ten years I led that life. Let our orthodox
friends talk of hell and of flames mountains high, and of
caverns of boiling brimstone, they could not picture one line
of the agonies I suffered. I was but mortal, and had to bow
to the inevitable laws of nature. The change came to
me. It was an easy sleep, for I was but a shadow, and
had not tasted food for three days. The bright sun was
shining, and the hay-field was my bed. I arose; stag¬
gering I became faint; it was a field by the wayside
close to the town. I sank, and passed on. When I re¬
covered she was before me, bright to look upon, but sad
to gaze on long, for though she was bright when I first saw
her, a deep sadness came over her face. He was there, but
not with her. He looked fierce and revengeful. I had lost
my old vindictive feelings, and was afraid •, I crouched down,
and shut him out of sight. And she spoke, and this is what
she said—“ Go. Undo what you have done. Then shall you
find peace, but not till then.” I looked up and she was gone,
not a sight of her could I see. But there was he, fierce and
vindictive, ready to tear me to pieces, and I fled from him,
aye, fled like a cur. I felt myself drawn, I did not know
where, but I followed my inclination to go, and I stood before
a house on your planet, and sitting by the fireside saw an aged
couple bowed down with grief and sorrow, and saying in their
hearts bitter things about the poor thing’s husband. A voice
said to me, “ See what you have done.” Then the attraction
ceased, and I was off again. This time it was the children,
in a poor house, alone, though with many, their little hearts
sighing for their mother and the father who had ill-used them
so. One sank on her knees, and offered up a prayer for
“ mother ” and “ dear father.” I could not stay long, and felt
forsaken worse than ever. I felt that I was not fit to speak
to the meanest among men or spirits. The curtain lifted, and
continued to lift, until at last the picture before my mental
eye was so fearful, so awful, that I prayed to be crushed from
existence. I traced the lie through the minds of hundreds ;
each turn of the lie had done its work, and a voice said—
“ That is thy work. There is much for thee to undo. No
rest till you have made right that which you have made
wrong.” Many years of your time rolled on before I righted
one consequence of my original lie. Time and time rolled
on, and the unweaving of the web I once tangled is drawing
near its completion. Those who suffered so much have passed
on to spirit life, and are far higher in their development than
I am, and sometimes indeed I scarcely dare to hope to be equal
with them. They visit me, but it is the visit of the angel to the
penitent man. Such, friends, is my history. It is a sad one,
but I begin to see glimpses now of the causes which produce
the effects I have described. Much was caused by lack of
knowledge in the world of time. They knew not how to
instruct children. There was. too little attention paid to the
true principles of right and wrong; everyone had a standard
for himself. I was gross and undeveloped physically, and no
means were provided to refine the grossness of my disposition,
and so I entailed upon myself the consequences which I have
had to bear. Truly does the proverb say “ Curses, like
chickens, come home to roost.” My name was Arthur Samuel
Walker, and all I have told you took place many of your
years ago—more than a hundred. The scene of my life was
Blackheath Yale, and I passed away on the outskirts of the
city of Bath.
Tien Sien Tie, the guardian spirit of the medium, then
came as usual, and said : Good evening, my friends. The
whole of the faculties of the human mind are given for the
beneficial use of mankind, and when you have discovered the
use of each faculty, aud have applied it to its proper use,
benefit results to yourselves and to those connected with you.
But if one portion of the mind be unduly taxed, a derange¬
ment of the organs of expression takes place, and insanity
results. There are many mad persons that the world of yours
passes by, and takes no heed of. There are many who so use
their physical nature that all spiritual perception is ignored.
The base of the brain is entirely devoted to the action of the
individual’s life : the lower faculties are unduly used, and the
result is a man or woman gross and physical in desires and acts,
with no perception of spiritual truths, incapable of under¬
standing spiritual existences or spiritual teaching, incapable
of appreciating the mental labours of others. With them the
most sublime mental efforts pass as commonplace and dull.
But give them a class of food suitable to their minds ; they
appreciate it. The mind, in fact, is diseased, and the brain is
thrown from its balance ; the man passes through the world,
but not as mad. The same result is produced by the excessive
use of any one of the faculties of the mind. Excessive use of
the mental or spiritual faculties of the mind will throw the
triangle of the brain from its balance, but each in its proper
place assists the other. The physical portion takes note of a
thing, the mental faculties analyse it, and the spiritual per¬
ceptions show the principle, or the real attributes, of the
thing perceived. When the faculties are properly used the
mind is “circular,” by which I mean “harmonious,” and
principles as well as attributes are arrived at. Where we
find excessive predominance of one portion of the mind, we
should try to remove it, first by taking away the attraction,
and then by introducing a corresponding attraction to the
higher portion of the brain; if it be done harmoniously
equilibrium will be restored. Then raise the top of the
triangle, and a better spirit will be sent to the other life,
better acts will flow from the brother or sister, and better
consequences will return to both. It is simple, but it is true.
The greater the truth, and the grander the principle, the more
simple is the action. All great things are simple, like the
causes of all things in this portion of space inhabited by
35
worlds and spheres; those who have a knowledge of the
causes know them to be simple as the simple fact I have given
you this evening. I cannot at present show you the sustaining
causes of this system of universes, for you are not yet prepared
for it, and it would occupy too much time now. The causes
of existence and of the sustaining power of existence in your
worlds and spheres as described by your modern seer,* are
capable of being analysed, in fact they have been analysed
and found to be sound. One day you shall know the results
of our researches; till then we must crave your patience.
Time with you is measured by periods, and with us by events;
your time is unknown to us. Another division of your time
will soon be numbered with eternity. Truth such as I have
told you, you have. Commence the new division with new
efforts to get the truth from all mediums, and when you get
the truth by careful investigation, hide it not, but give to thy
brother Test he faint by the wayside for want of spiritual
water. By patience you may develope your physical mani¬
festations. It will require patience, but I will see that too
much of your evening is not occupied by your patience. You
have the means, and it rests with you whether they shall be
used; you are each and every one to act as a free agent;
there is no compulsion. Farewell, peace be with you.
On Friday evening, January 7th, at the ordinary weekly
seance, much of the time of those present was again wasted,
in witnessing a few feeble physical manifestations, and iii
receiving some inaccurate communications, through the
mediumship of Master Selwood. He will be a capital
medium in time, but the mistake on the part of the manage¬
ment of taking up the time of a large company in witnessing
the unsatisfactory results of partly-developed mediumship, will
assuredly lead to the breaking up of the weekly meetings, if
the plan be persisted in.
Next came Some communications through Mr. J. J. Morse,
but the control was very weak. In answer to questions, his
guardian spirit said that there is great difficulty in getting
proper names through the brain and mouth of a trance
medium. In the case of Mr. Morse probably one in three of
the names and addresses are given with absolute freedom
from error, but nearly all of them are sufficiently accurate to
serve for the identification of the communicating spirit. He
closed by controlling Mr- Morse as a writing medium, and by
this method stated that he had been requested to say that the
name Mary Willett given at a former stance, should have been
Harriet Tillot, and that the name of the doctor who attended
her was “ Fulcher.” He said that when the names given
through his medium are not accurate, they will be found to
much resemble the real ones in sound.
Mr. J. M. Peebles, who was present, said that there are
three ways of controlling mediums, namely, “ mechanically,
psychologically, and inspirationally;” the control of Mr.
Morse seemed to be a mixture of the psychological and the
inspirational, in which case it is difficult to give proper
names.f
BIBLE SPIRITUALISM.
In the last number of the Spiritual Magazine is a long
article on Spiritualism and the Bible, from which we make the
following extract:—
“ Our American brethren direct us also to the East, for a
proof of the mere modern and mythic character of Christianity
—that only religion in the world which possesses a clear and
connected historic basis, unequivocal, positive, and predomi¬
nant over all myth and fable, running from the creation until
now. Mr. Peebles, in his Seers of the A ges, tells us that 1 the
historic Jesus is copied from the Crishna of India, and that
the close and almost perfect parallelisms between the Crishna
of the Bhagavat Gita and the Christ of the Gospels is suffi¬
cient evidence that one was borrowed from the other, or that
they were both copies from some older myth.’
“ Now certainly no man well acquainted with the ancient
theology of the Hindoos could for a moment doubt which of
these relations was borrowed from the other, if there were
such a borrowing. In the one case we have in the Bible a
plain, clear, uninterrupted history from the very earliest era
of history down to the time of Christ, in which the founder of
Christianity is most unequivocally and luminously heralded
and graphically described, His person, His career and His doc¬
trine. This is done, not by one prophet, but by a score, all
living in succession; and, therefore, incapable of together
concocting such a story. These prophets prove their mission
to be genuine by simultaneously prophecying the fates of all
the nations surrounding them, and some of those nations then
the most powerful in the world. Profane history has most
absolutely shown the truth of these predictions; and that
truth is every day in our own time being re-confirmed by the
discoveries on the sites of those nations. Egypt, Nineveh.
Babylon and Syria, have all yielded up to the researches of
travellers and archaeologists the most amazing proofs of these
prophetic announcements of from two to four thousand years
ago. The Assyrian relics of art in the British Museum, the
I bricks and manuscripts of Babylon, the latter now in prepara¬
tion for publication; the discoveries of the giant cities of
Bashan, still existing, these and the condition of a thousand
objects in Palestine, place the Hebrew history on such a basis
of demonstrated truth as no other history of the ancient world
possesses.
“ Turn from this solid and sunlit plane of history, stretching
without a break from the very dawn of history, to the litera¬
ture of India—and we plunge at once into a region of dark¬
ness illuminated only by partial light, into a chaos of myths
and legends. There is no such thing as a clear matter-of-fact,
continued history of national events, philosophy, or religion.
We gather our scattered incidents from different, quite dis¬
tinct, and often most contradictory books, and all mingled
with the wildest and most absurd fables. We have nothing to
assure us of the dates of many of the half fact half saga state¬
ments, but such as we can draw from the antiquity of the lan¬
guage in which they occur. Some of the greatest authorities,
such as Max Muller, tell us that probably these mystical, rather
than historic productions, may be as old as the Hebrew
history.
“ Let us suppose them to be so old; nay, let us suppose some
of them to be as old as the early days of the human race, ere
the different tribes had dispersed themselves into different
and distant regions, what then ? We come merely to that
primal period in which the human race possessed, most pro¬
bably in common, the divine revelations of those leading
truths which should become the ultimate springs of universal
civilization and religion. Those truths have maintained them-
* Who is he ? Andrew Jackson Davis ?—Ed.
t We will make inquiries into the accuracy of the names given through
Mr. Morse’s mediumship. The views of Mr. Peebles, as to the methods of
giving proper names through trance mediumship, are given more in detail
in another column.—Ed.
36
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 14, 1870.
selves on a sound and palpable and unbroken highway of
history, through the Hebrew, and through no other race what¬
ever. In all others, Egyptian, Indian, Chinese, they have be¬
come swamped and swallowed up in the vast volumes of
heathen darkness and sensualized fable.
“ These gentlemen lay much stress on the assertion that some
of the Indian resemblances to Christian facts are much prior
to the Christian era. Suppose this to be actually so, the fact
remains that the predictions of Christ, and of the incidents of
His earth life, also stood fixed thousands of years in the Hebrew
Scriptures before He Himself came ; and it is much more
likely that in the intercourse known to have existed between
the eastern nations for thousands of years before Christianity,
the Hindoos and others should have received, through their
learned men, knowledge of these wonderful predictions, than
that the Hebrews should have gleaned, them from theirs so
mixed with fantastic fable. The whole history of the Jews,
so proud of their superior knowledge, so exclusive in their
character, is wholly opposed to the idea of such a borrowing,
and in the whole Hebrew history there is no trace of any such
infusion from the far East. In fact the ancient and complete
body of Jewish revelation had no need of it. It is far more
likely that the fleets of Solomon conveyed copies of the
Hebrew writings to India, which would be amazingly curious
to the learned men of the Orient. Again, the Ten Tribes^
when carried away eastward, and absorbed in the Eastern
nations, no doubt carried with them their prophets and pro¬
phetic knowledge ; and traces of these Ten Tribes are asserted
to remain among the Afghans, and even in peoples more
eastern.
“ It is further admitted by oriental scholars that the modern
doctrines and rites of both Buddhism and Brahminism are
very different from the ancient ones ; and it is far more legi¬
timate for us to suppose that St. Thomas, in his mission to
India, immediately after the death of Christ, carried widely
through India the new ideas and faith which led to these
modifications. His Church, discovered in India in our time,
and described in the Christian Researches in Asia of the Eev.
Claudius Buchanan, London, 1841, must through this long
period have disseminated amongst the learned Hindoos many
Christian facts and ideas. Besides, who can doubt that the
spirit of God’s wisdom and love, which is Christ, has in all
ages and nations been stirring and moving in the minds and
hearts of all mankind, and more or less revealing Himself
there, according to the assurance of St. Paul that God had
never left Himself, even amongst the heathen, without a
witness 1
I observe that our friend, Mr. Peebles, in his Seers of the
Ages, rests too much on the Anacalypsis of Godfrey Higgins,
a work in which there is the most constant straining to draw
Christianity from the fragmentary passages of Hindoo mytho¬
logy rather than from the full and positive records of the Jews
themselves. Mr. Peebles and the Americans of that school do
injustice to their own intellectual acumen in relying on the
interested patchwork of Higgins to produce a caricature of
Christ rather than on the authentic annals of Christ’s own
people. Besides, who on reading, himself, the story of Crishna
in the Bhagavat Gita, a philosophic poem, or in the Vishnu
Pwrcmo, can recognise the pretended identity of that god with
Christ ? He is but one of the ten Avatar as of Vishnu, and so
far from being the gentle, loving, wise, self-sacrificing being
which Christ was, he is in his youth an imp of mischief and
practical tricks amongst the cowboys and shepherdesses of
Vrindavana. Is it in playing pranks with Indrar—in mocking
his elders—in lifting a mountain into the air, with all its cow¬
herds and cattle—in slaying a demon—in building a town
with his own hands—in marrying sixteen thousand wives, and
having a hundred and eighty thousand sons ; or in being
killed himself by a hunter, that we recognise the likeness to
Christ ? These attempts, in truth, are as absurd as they are
unhistorical. For what is the fact ? Whatever may be the
date or the character of the myths of India, Christ is no mythi¬
cal, but an absolute and altogether historical personage. His
history stands in plainest terms in the book which is as much
the history of the Jews as the history of England is of the
English. It is not the fable of a fabled people. That people
exists amongst us and the other modern nations to-day ; it
exists in fulfilment of the same age-long chain of prophecies
which foretold and attested Christ; on every page of that
history, from its first to its last, stands the declarations of the
coming of Christ, and when He did come it was in no obscure
or mythical age, but in a comparatively modern period, amid
the blaze of Greek and Eoman civilization, which attest, in
fullest evidence, His life, death, and eternal doctrines.
“ To attempt to reduce to a level with pagan writers or with
eastern mythical deities, this Divine Man, with whom all the
prior ages are filled by anticipation, and all the subsequent
ones by the light and life and civilisation springing from His
Gospel, is a perversion of intellect, only to be accounted for
by the influence of those lying spirits, who were announced as
the dark deceivers of these latter times.”
Theke is a probability that the Gower-street conferences
will begin again very shortly.
Atmospherical Influences on Manipestations.—At
the meeting of Mrs. C. Berry’s circle, on Thursday, December
30th, the spirits said that the weather was very bad indeed
for physical manifestations ; it was scarcely possible for it to
be worse. The sky was overcast with thin cloud, and a thaw
had set in, with a light wind from the south-west. The dry-
bulb thermometer on the 28th, stood at 25 degrees; on the
29th, at 31 degrees; and on the 30th, at 37 degrees. The
barometer on the same three days stood at 29.95, 30.22, and
30.00 inches respectively.
The Anthropological Societt.—On Tuesday evening,
January 4th, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting of the
Anthropological Society, at 4, St. Martin’s-place, Trafalgar-
square, Dr. E. S. Charnock, F.S.A. presided. A paper by Mr.
1. O. Pike, M.A., was read in the absence of its author, by Dr.
Carter Blake, upon “ The Psychical Elements of Eeligion.”
The writer said that in his paper he intended to exclude all
revelations from God from consideration, but to include all
the other numerous religions, from fetishism upwards. He
would not attempt to draw a line between religion and super¬
stition, because every man puts down his own as the true reli¬
gion, and all others as superstitions. He said that every
people who have handed down a literature have handed down
a creed, and that these creeds all agree with one another, in
that some angry being has to be propitiated, and that the God
or gods are represented as having the passions and feelings of
men ; the higher the race of men, the higher is the ideal
standard which they call God. All tbe ancient religions
therefore, agree by acting largely upon the fears of those who
follow them. The Eev. Dunbar Heath, Mr. Dibley, Mr. W.
Dendy, Mr. Charlesworth, Mr. Macrae Moir, Mr. Moncure
D. Conway, and Dr. Carter Blake took part in the discussion.
General Netos.
Spiritualism is gaining ground in Australia. Tbe
Melbourne Daily Telegraph of Oct. 12th last, reports that Mr.
Nayler delivered a lecture on the subject at the Mechanics’
Institute, Melbourne, and that he asserted the King of Bavaria,
the Emperor Napoleon, and Queen Victoria, to be Spiri¬
tualists.
Speaking in Unknown Tongues.—Itwill be remembered
how, several years ago, considerable excitement was caused in
London, by the psychological phenomena of the speaking in
unknown tongues, breaking out in one of the religious sects.
The well-known mediumship of Mr. E. Cogman, 22,New-road,
Whitechapel-road, E., has recently undergone a change, and
he is sometimes made to talk vigorously in some language
which neither he, nor anybody else who has heard it, can
understand. This apparently useless phase of mediumship, is
not pleasant to Mr. Cogman himself, who says that the words
seem to roll up from his stomach, and they hurt his throat as
they come up. It is manifestly a language, and not gibberish,
which he is made to speak, and one linguist has expressed an
opinion that it is probably a Polynesian language, as nearly if
not all the words end in vowels. If the language can be
identified, it will be capital proof that spiritual communica¬
tions are sometimes very foreign to the mind of the medium,
but in the meantime this form of mediumship is unpleasant
enough to Mr. Cogman, and void of instruction to the hearers.
Table Signals and the Alphabet.—A few weeks ago
we pointed out the saving in time that might be effected,
when receiving messages by means of raps or tilts, if the
alphabet were written in the following way, and a particular
method of signalling adopted |—
E
S
L
W
V
Z
A
N
U
T
K
T
H
•C
G
Q
I O
E D
M F
P B
J X
A friend at Norwich has written to say that he places this
alphabet on the table, and asks the spirits to tilt first the
number of the horizontal line in which the letter is placed,
then to make a pause, and afterwards to tilt the number of
the letter itself according to the position it occupies in the
line. Thus the calling over of the alphabet by anybody
present is rendered unnecessary. At some American circles
the spirits have been taught to signal by means of the Morse
alphabet, as follows :—
N
O
P
Q
The above alphabet consists of long and short dashes. A
short dash means a little tilt of the table, and a long dash a
great tilt; a pause of longer duration must be made to sepa¬
rate the letters. This system is troublesome and requires-
patience to learn, but afterwards messages can be signalled
with great rapidity by its aid.
The Spiritual Magazine.—The Spiritual Magazine is
now ten years old, and is justly very elated by the fact. The
editor says in the last number : r The ■work goes bravely and
steadily on; without hurry and without pause. It is true we
have had our difficulties and discouragements; no work
worth engaging in was ever without them ; but Time, which
tries all things, has but deepened our convictions, and
strengthened our resolves to persevere in the work in which
we are engaged, and shown how impregnable are the founda¬
tions of our faith, and taught us more fully how great the need
of its corrective lessons, and how wide, and ever widening an
horizon it opens out before us. Our work is, and has ever
been purely a labour of love, and therefore one whose rewards,
though unsought, have been the most satisfying, and ample,
far higher in kind than any of an external sort could pos¬
sibly be. Our contributors, too, one and all, have had and
have sought no compensation other than arises from the satis¬
faction of bearing testimony to the truth. We thank them on
our own behalf and on that of our readers for their disin¬
terested and efficient co-operation.”
Proper Names and Trance Mediumship.—Last Friday,
Mr. J. M. Peebles, medium, and Consul at Trebizond to the
Government of the United States, was present at the public
siance at 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, when the subject of
the difficulty of forcing proper names through trance media
came up. He then said that he has noticed that there are
three ways of controlling trance mediums—“ mechanically,
psychologically, and inspirationally.” We have since asked
him to define the ideas conveyed to his own mind by these
three terms, since his large experience of spiritual phenomena
in America, makes his testimony valuable. He says that
sometimes the spirits have complete control of the body of the
medium, moving fingers, arms, legs, muscles, and mouth with
the greatest ease, without exercising much action, if any, upon
the brfin. This he calls mechanical control, and by it the
spirits, he says, can bring out proper names with the greatest
ease and accuracy. By psychological control, he means that
wherein the medium speaks according to the will of the person
or spirit controlling him. He (Mr. Peebles) has asked the
spirits to leave a medium, and let him control the medium
himself by his will-power, and he has done so successfully,
but found that he must put his thoughts very clearly into
words, to make tbe medium speak them. There is liability to
error, in giving proper names by this method. By “ inspira¬
tional” mediumship he means mediumship wherein great
ideas lie dormant in the mind of the medium, and a high
spirit or band of spirits, direct a stream of the spiritual forces
upon the brain of the medium, and raise his intellect to a
high and abnormal state of activity ; acting in fact somewhat
as a blast of pure oxygen gas would act upon a dull coal fire.
It is very difficult, if not impossible, to get out proper names
with accuracy by this kind of mediumship. He thinks the
mediumship of Mr. J. J. Morse to be a mixture of the psycho¬
logical and the inspirational. The control of the physical
frame of Mr. Morse is imperfect, for when he is made to write,
the lines run into each other, he has difficulty in folding the
paper when he tries to do so, and he has difficulty in carrying
it to, and in seeing the person he wants to give it to.
“ The Keality oe a Spirit World Demonstrated.”—
Under this title, Mr. E. F. Eippon, who has visited our town
under the auspices of the Eyde Dialectical Society, delivered
two lectures on Spiritualism, in the Town Hall, on Thursday
and Friday last. He pointed out that the subject had of late
years attracted a good deal of attention, in both the old and
new worlds ; and that it had of late years been much written,
spoken, and he believed, even preached about! The doctrine
had made numerous disciples, and as some of its adherents
were composed of men whose minds were of the highest calibre
and who occupied good social positions—as it was not confined
to the low and the ignorant (although that, in his opinion,
would not be a proof that the reverse was the case), it was evi¬
dent that there was some truth in Spiritualism and that it was
worth investigation. He defined Spiritualism as embracing all
spiritual or miraculous phenomena, both of ancient and modern
days, and above all, what he considered as its highest mani¬
festation, as the power of addressing ourselves to Jehovah and
holding close communion with Him. He gave many interest¬
ing details of his experiences as a Spiritualist; and played
several impromptu pieces, which, he said, were direct inspira¬
tions from the spirit world. He added that at times he could
see the spirits'of eminent composers standing by his side
whilst he was playing, and that sometimes his hand was raised
from the piano, whilst the keys were pressed by supernatural
agency. His playing was of the most wonderful description
we have ever heard, and at the same time there was an inex¬
pressible weirdness in the sounds which emanated from the
instrument. Some of the audience declared that they could
hear the tones of a human voice issuing from the pianoforte.
He also exhibited some beautifully correct drawings and paint¬
ings of insects and other natural objects, which he had made,
he said, by spiritual agency. He was not, naturally, he de¬
clared, endued with any talent for drawing, and it was only
after a drawing medium had laid his hand on his that he ac¬
quired the wonderful power he now possesses. Of the paint¬
ings exhibited by Mr. Eippon, it would be imposssible for a
naturalist to speak too highly. His flowers stand out upon
the background in all the transparent delicacy, richness of
colouring, and charm of actual life. His insects are, if pos¬
sible, even still more wondrously perfect. Surely art never
more successfully invaded the confines of nature than in the
enchanting portraitures of Mr. Eippon’s. Those who have had
the privilege of knowing this remarkably gifted man will join
us in the wish that he may have a safe and successful return
from the sunny lands of Arabia; and that he may be spared
many years of life to depict with his marvellous fidelity those
glorious objects which he so loves, and which now allure him
from the studio and home to the wild regions of Algeria.—Isle
of Wight Times.
Spiritualism in the Isle op Wight.—Mr. F. N.
Broderick, of Eyde, in the course of a letter to the editor of
the Isle of Wight Times, about the preceding paragraph, said:
—“ So far as I have been able to learn, all those persons who
were present on the first of Mr. Eippon’s entertainments
noticed the remarkable semblance to a human voice referred
to in your report. The illusion was so perfect that I turned
involuntarily to the gentleman sitting next to me, convinced
that he was violating good taste by joining in the air, but I
found that he was silently absorbed in the performance.
During Mr. Eippon’s rendering of ‘ Home, sweet Home,’ the
rich cadence of what seemed unmistakably a human voice was
particularly noticeable even above the full power of the bass
notes. From subsequent observation, I was convinced that the
sound emanated from the pianoforte, but the nature of the
magical manipulation which produced it can best be solved by
those who are familiar with that superb instrument; To satisfy
some persons who wished to have an authoritative opinion on
the real value of Mr. Eippon’s music, I wrote to a lady who
was present on the second evening, and whose musical educa¬
tion and great experience I judged well qualified her to form
a scientific estimate of the performances. As the lady is in
no way associated with the spiritualistic movement, it may
fairly be presumed that her critique will on that account be
free from bias in Mr. Eippon’s favour. Subjoined is her
courteous reply ; I must, however, ask you to omit name and
address.—‘Sir,— I have much pleasure in giving you my
opinion on the subject named in your letter. Mr. Eippon’s
style of playing is perfectly artistic, combining great facility
of execution with excellent expression, which latter quality
was particularly noticeable in his treatment of “ Ah, che la
morte." In fact, with the exception of a few instances of too
great a preponderance of bass, his whole performance was not
only faultless, but exceedingly beautiful.’ ”
The Spirit World.—Mrs. De Morgan recently furnished
Daybreak with the following interesting spirit message :
“The subject of the locality of the spirit land is, in truth,
beyond the power of the finite mind to comprehend. As I
have told you many times, your earthly atmosphere teems
with the spirits who are in sympathy with the lower order of
development or spirit-life found there. But on your earth, in
the body also, are many pure and aspiring spirits who are in
closer communion with the far and higher regions than any of
the undeveloped disembodied spirits who readily communicate
their ignorance through their earthly mediums. The casting
aside of the earthly frame does not exalt the spirit that is not
exalted by its aspirations and longings to attain the higher
God-spheres ; spheres and localities beyond the ken of man¬
kind. Think not that any can solve the deep and high
mysteries of the higher spirit-spheres, for only they who have
attained thereto can form a conception of what they are, the
spiritual sphere being not only localised, but a state far more
than a locality.” “ I would teach you that the teachings of
the spirits are really true. Your earth in its objectiveness is
the type of this sphere. You take from us, not we from you.
All the varied descriptions must truly be in accordance with
the medium’s own power of perception and reception, but to
each medium comes the spirit most suited to his powers, qnd
ail is true in the description of our home. It is very real.
We need, spiritually, in our early spirit-life, the same things
that we long for on earth in a higher and fuller degree. Life
is purer and truer, but it is as real, objectively and subjec¬
tively, as on your earth. We have all the adjuncts here, but
as we advance they become purer and more ethereal.”
“ When we speak of curtains, we mean, literally, a light divi¬
sion between the parts of the room in the same way as you
use such on earth. But we have such, as all else, in the most
ethereal and beautiful material, formed from the essence of
the flowers around. This is a very favourite material, to use
your earthly words, with us. Our dresses are formed of it;
and as they float in the ether, they give out sweetness and
harmony in accordance with all around. It is truly impos¬
sible so to impress our earthly medium as to give you an idea
of the fulness of the beauty of our home; but nothing can
too fully assure you of the reality and substantiality of it.”—
Given through F, J. T.
Jan. 14, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST
37
CHARGES FOR ADVERTISEMENTS.
1. Advertisements of Public Companies, Half-a-guinea per
sixth of a column, or every portion of sixth of a column.
2. General Advertisements, Five Shillings per twelfth of a
column, or portion of twelfth of a column.
Note.—Advertisemmts at the foregoing rates will be
'■‘displayed" so as to occupy the full space paid for, but
advertisements at the following rates will be in closely set
type.
3. General Advertisements, llalf-a-crown per first five
lines or portion of five lines, and Fourpence for every line in
addition.
4. Situations Wanted, or Apartments to Let. One Shilling
per first four lines, or portion of four lines; Threepence for
every line in addition.
Ten words are allowed to the line, and six figures or
initial letters count as one word.
When five or more insertions of the same advertisement
are paid for, twenty per cent, reduction will be made in the
above rates. ■
The power is reserved of refusing to insert any advertise¬
ment.
Advertisements and remittances should be sent to the
Publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's
Church-yard, London, E.G., or to Mr. J. Burns, 15,
Southampton-row, High Holborn, London, W. C.
All letters should be brief and to the point, as the amount
of space available for correspondence is at present small.
Communications intended for the Editor should be by
letter only, addressed to the care of the Publisher, Mr. E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's Church-yard, London,
E.C. Until the Spiritual movement in England, together
with this journal, have both grown considerably, time cannot
be spared for personal interviews on subjects connected with
the literary work of The Spiritualist, but all letters will
meet with careful consideration.
The Spiritualist is a periodical intended to give great
freedom of expression to all the different shades of opinion
to be found among Spiritualists. There will therefore be
very little uniformity in the ideas promulgated in this journal,
more especially in the correspondence columns. Under these
circumstances every reader will find occasionally something
in The Spiritualist which he or she does not like, but the
right of reply remains. This freedom of thought given to
others, the Editor claims for himself, and those who do not
like the contents of leading articles, can write against them
in the correspondence columns. This plan is thought better
than that of reducing the contents of the journal to a
pale weak mediocrity, by inserting only those contributions
which please everybody. The preceding remarks are not
intended to imply that those who have crotchets which they
cannot get printed anywhere else, can find an outlet for them
here, for none but those letters which are considered worth
publication will be inserted.
Notices of Public Meetings in connection with Spiritualism
should be sent to the office several days in advance.
ItoiT-Spintealisis,
A large amount of information is printed on the last two
pages of this journal, clearly demonstrating that the facts of
Spiritualism, highly improbable as they appear to be, are
real, and deserve serious investigation by all thoughtful
people. In other columns of every number of The Spiri¬
tualist will also be found plenty of additional evidence to
the same effect.
^jo Subsoitars.
The first twelve numbers of The Spiritualist will be
forwarded regularly by penny post to subscribers, who remit
four shillings in payment, to Mr. E. W. Allen, Publisher,
Ave Maria-lane, St. PauVs-churchyard, E.C.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1870.
NOTICE.
The Spiritualist will from and after this
date be published monthly instead of fortnightly.
It will be issued on the 15th day of every month,
and the next number will come out on Tuesday,
the 15th of February.
For a ;new paper The Spiritualist has been very
favourably received, and it finds its way regularly to
all parts of tbe three kingdoms. But tbe advertising
public know comparatively little about Spiritualism,
regarding it as a delusion or something worse, hence a
journal on this subject stands on a worse commercial
footing than ordinary newspapers do with the same
circulation. Experience shows that it is unreasonable
to continue this as a fortnightly journal at present, but
The Spiritualist is progressing steadily, and we hope
to again supply news at short intervals at no very
distant date. Much mutual friendliness has sprung up
between this journal and some of its leading sup¬
porters, and, as will be seen in a short' article in an¬
other column, the systematic recording of facts in these
pages has begun to bear practical fruit, by the elucida¬
tion of some general principles incidental to trance-
mediumship. With the Spiritual Magazine and the
other periodicals issued at the beginning of each month,
and this journal published in the middle of every month,
there will still be a fortnightly supply of news in con¬
nection with this noble movement.
THE ACTION OF LIGHT UPON SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
There are certain spiritual manifestations which can
be obtained only in darkness, such, for instance, as the
ordinary spirit voices; and subdued light is a favour¬
able condition for nearly all the phenomena, trance¬
speaking included. What is this “ light ” which exer¬
cises so much influence upon the manifestations ?
According to modern philosophers it is the wave-motion
of an infinitely elastic fluid known as the “ interstellar
ether,” which fills all space, stretches from star to star,
and bathes the vibrating atoms of all solid bodies. The
vibrating atoms of luminous bodies*throw the ether
into waves, and these waves beat against the retina of
the human eye, just as the waves of the ocean break
upon the sea-shore. But the eye is so far an imperfect
instrument that it is insensitive to the shortest of the
ether waves, and .cannot see them, neither can it see
the longest waves. The longest waves emanating from
the sun, which warm our backs and melt the mountain
snows, are nearly all invisible to the eye. The invi¬
sible waves contain about eight times more heat than
the visible waves. A few days ago, Professor Tyndall
at the Boyal Institution filtered away the visible waves
from the electric light, by means of a glass vessel filled
with a solution of iodine in bisulphide of carbon ; the
invisible waves passed freely through this opaque liquid,
and were made to set fire to paper at a distance of
several yards from the electric lamp. The red waves
are the longest which can be seen by the eye, and the
violet and blue waves are the shortest; in fact, the
sensation of colour is due simply to variations in wave¬
length.
The spirits who speak at Mrs. Mary Marshall’s
seances, on being questioned upon the subject said that
there was so much motion in light that it “ burnt up
the atmospheres they used to produce the voices.” By
“ atmospheres ” they perhaps meant the emanations
from the medium. Accordingly some experiments were
once tried, by giving them a cool light, containing very
much less wave motion than ordinary white light.
It was produced by passing the rays from a paraffin
flame, first 'through a glass trough filled with a solution
of alum, and, secondly, through another glass trough
filled with a solution of ammonio-sulphate of copper.
A cold blue light, of feeble intensity, was thus em¬
ployed to illuminate the room. It was a failure so far
as seeing the tubes was concerned, as the voices could
only be produced in those parts of the room where the
darkness was too deep for the eyes of the witnesses to
penetrate. There are other ways by which the diffi¬
culty may perhaps be overcome, and further experi¬
ments will be made.
Mr. Mumler is as busy as ever producing spirit pho¬
tographs, and defying all the photographers in New
York to detect imposture. As Judge Edmonds and
Mr. Livermore, the banker, pronounce Mr. Mumler to
have produced accurate portraits of their departed
friends, we presume them to be right in considering it a
case of genuine mediumship. Assuming the pictures
to he genuine spirit photographs, the question arises—
How do the spirits produce them ? Short waves of
ether, too short to he visible to the eye, act upon pho¬
tographic films, it being therefore possible for photo¬
graphs to be taken very slowly indeed, in a peculiar
kind of pitch darkness, which the philosopher knows
how to produce. The editor of the British Journal of
Photography once suggested that perhaps the bodies of
spirits can be materialised sufficiently to reflect these
short invisible waves, by which means a photograph
could be taken. But the fact is that in Mr. Mumler’s
pictures, the spirit forms produce more photographic
action on the plates than the human forms in the same
space of time, which could not be the case if the spirit
bodies set up an action upon the sensitive film by means
of the extra-violet rays, since these rays act very feebly.
In short, the way in which these pictures are produced,
is as great a mystery as ever.
Many modern philosophers think that in the vibra¬
ting atom and the ether-wave, they have reached the
boundaries of creation, just as the Jews and their
prophets believed that the earth was a flat plain, with a
crystal vault confining the waters above the firmament,
and that the sun and moon were small lights hung up
for the benefit of the flat plain and the chosen people.
That organised beings like spirits can be moving in the
interstellar ether, complicates the theories of modem
philosophers as much as the discovery of the rotation of
the earth upset the astronomical notions of the Jews
and their successors. In all directions in creation there
is probably nothing but infinity, but man sets up tem¬
porary boundaries of his own here and there, as fixed
points on which to rest for a time his aching mind.
A FEATURE OF TRANCE-MEDIUMSHIP.
In the philosophical examination of any new and
perplexing phenomena, the only safe plan is to have no
preconceived ideas at all, to note accurately all the
facts, and then examine the collected facts in search of
principles. This plan has been followed in this journal,
and now we have one golden little bit of clear know¬
ledge revealed in the mass of evidence.
On Thursday, December 9th, Mr. Avery, a well-
known American Spiritualist, now resident in London,
made a speech at the St. John’s Association of Spiritua¬
lists, in Clerkenwell, and said that when his little
daughter first came back to speak to him through a New
York medium, the spirit and the medium both felt the
pains of the sickness which afflicted the daughter on her
death-bed. We called attention at the time to the circum¬
stance that Mrs. John Olive, trance medium, of 1, Gib-
son-place, Warrington-crescent, W., also feels the pains
of those spirits who had not easy beds of “ death; ” in
fact, if memory does not err, we think that on one
occasion spots came temporarily out on her face, after a
spirit had been speaking through her who died of small
pox. Next, on the 17th December, Mr. Clegg, of
York, who suffered from rheumatism in earth life, gave
Mr. Morse, the medium, some bad symptoms, of the
complaint at a public seance at 15, Southampton-row.
Lastly, in this number of the Spiritualist is a narra¬
tive showing how the spirit of William Young, on the
8th November last, caused Mrs. Conant, the medium,
of Boston, U. S., to feel his death pains. Or rather,
the spirits feel the pains while in the mediums, and the
latter feel them temporarily when they wake up after
the manifestations are over.
All these various instances, collected from widely
separated sources,' have unexpectedly come together
among the facts in these pages, so that it is now pretty
clearly established that one feature running through the
whole range of trance-mediumship, is the fact that the
media very commonly feel symptoms of the death pains
of the communicating spirits. Also, that the spirits
feel these pains while en rapport with each medium, so
are not themselves quite in their normal state whilst
delivering their messages.
Daylight also is beginning to shine upon another
feature of trance-mediumship, namely, the difficulty
of getting proper names accurately through the me¬
diums, and before long it is hoped that sufficient evidence
will be collected to disrobe this branch of the subject of
all its present mystery.
There are those who do not like the publication of
the details of seances, on the ground that non-Spiritua-
lists will learn much of the difficulties of the subject,
and how great are the cobwebs of ignorance at present
enshrouding the nature of spiritual manifestations. The
systematic search after truth is not to be fettered by any
sensitiveness to the sayings and doings of uninformed
outsiders, nor by deference to public opinion, which in
the present state of national education is worth little,
and is often manufactured by keen heads for the pur¬
pose of duping the populace. .
“JOHN KING.”
BY THE EDITOR.
At different times some of the periodicals devoted to
Spiritualism, have expressed doubts as to the genuine
character of the’ voices obtained through the medium-
ship of Mr. and Mrs. Marshall. A very intelligent
Spiritualist one evening attended a dark seance at 13,
Bristol-gardens, Paddington, W., and afterwards printed
in Daybreak: a statement to the effect that the voice
purporting to belong to the spirit “ John King,” was
Mr. Marshall’s voice, which statement, as I shall now
prove, was not true. Also, there are three or four
Spiritualists, who often relate in the most circumstantial
way, how they detected Mr. and Mrs. Marshall “ doing
the voices,” but who have not published their detection
of the imposture, therefore have made themselves ac¬
complices if imposture it he, by sitting down quietly
with the belief that scores of people are constantly
being duped, who would not be duped did the detec¬
tives put in print what they assert in private.
Soon after I first witnesed Spiritual manifestations,
38
THE SPIRITUALIST
about two years ago, I was taken to see the phenomena
which occur under the mediumship of Mrs. M ary
Marshall, who then resided at 13, Bristol-gardens, but
now at 2, Bennett-street, St. James’s. Tables and
chairs moved about in daylight, and sometimes rose
from the ground, whilst at the dark seances voices were
heard, and luminous manifestations seen; all these
things purported to come from spirits. I therefore re¬
solved to be a constant visitor at the seances, and to
stick at the work till I either discovered the assertions
to be true, or detected the imposture with sufficient
accuracy and certainty to expose it in the presence of
witnesses, and to be able to publish the facts with com¬
plete sectional drawings of the apparatus used.
The voice calling itself “John King” is backed by
an intelligence apparently entirely different in kind
from that of Mr. or Mrs. Marshall. However, I pri¬
vately assumed that Mr. Marshall did the voice, and by
attending a few seances found that it was a common
thing for Mr. Marshall and John King to speak at the
same time, so I was obliged to throw over that theory.
Next I assumed that 'Mrs. Marshall did it, till one
evening I sat next her; she was on my right hand
side, I had hold of her hand and arm, and John King
came and talked into my left ear, Mrs. Marshall being
perfectly motionless all the time, so overwent the other
theory. Next, I assumed that a confederate, among
the visitors to the circle did John King’s voice, so had
a seance with Mr. and Mrs. Marshall alone; John was
there, and talked for an hour. Lastly, I assumed that
a concealed confederate did the voice, so attended two
seances where Mrs. Marshall was present among strangers
to her, in a strange house, and again John King was as
lively as ever. Ninally, on Thursday evening, Decem¬
ber 30th, 1869, John King came and talked to eleven
persons at Mrs. C. Berry’s circle, in the absence of Mr.
and Mrs. Marshall, the medium being Mrs. Perrin.
I only certify to the genuine character of such of the
manifestations as I have tested, and no more, but trust
that these facts will clear away some of the doubts in¬
cautiously thrown over Mrs. Mary Marshall’s medium-
ship by Daybreak and the Spiritual Magazine.
The Cure of M. Leon Payee.—The Revne Spiri-
tualiste of September last contains an account written by M.
Leon Favre, Consul-General of France, narrating how he was
cured of a complaint of 42 years standing, by a spirit. He says:
—“ I was in 1826 at Livorno. I was there poisoned by eating of
a large sort of lobster, probably cooked in a copper vessel in bad
condition. I was saved by medical energy, but the poison
left the most terrible effects on my stomach; the most singular
symptoms seized me. I had a gastric complaint which lasted
seven years, and which was succeeded by nervous maladies,
strange lethargies, and morbid effects which defied every
scientific remedy. The crises were marked by the most
frightful circumstances. Sometimes my eyes were convulsed,
the pallor of death, overspread my features which were dis¬
torted by the most painful contractions ; my cheeks instantly
sunk, all my limbs became rigid ; my body was stretched out
like a corpse, I often fell with my head against the wall, and
I lay in this state of catalepsy. Sometimes the attack seemed
to come down on me like a bird of prey ; my intestines,
stomach and chest seemed wrenched and twisted violently.
The paroxysm lasted for an hour at most, but it left a fearful
havoc in the system. Frequently it produced aberrations of
vision which caused me to see every object triple, always fol¬
lowed by a prostration and temporary exhaustion of all my
forces.” He then narrates how in the course of years this cruel
malady increased in virulence, and the attacks succeeded each
other at shorter intervals. Medical skill failed to remove the
disease. At last a spirit, acting through the mediumship of a
young schoolmistress of the name of Catarina, prescribed for
M. Leon Favre. The spirit ‘‘ declared his name to be Giacomo
Giaferro; that he was born at Venice in 1418, and died in
1510, at the age of 92, at Verona, where he practised medi¬
cine. Generally, medical healers proceed on the system of
the somnambules. They inspect the patient and prescribe
their remedies without the subject being required to give any
explanation. Giaferro acted like a living doctor. The patient
gave the history of his complaints without omitting the
smallest detail. Giaferro listened scrupulously to the present
diagnosis, but he rarely foresaw that which might unexpectedly
arise. I assembled often with me three or four physicians to ,
act as a check upon him. I have heard them dispute with
him, make fresh consultation of the . patient according to his
indications, find that they were wrong, and that he (Giaferro),
the invisible, was right! His appreciations were marked by
an exactness remarkable, and nearly always I have seen the
doctors adopt his opinion in the treatment of the case. It
was under the direction of this invisible doctor, at first watched
by my friend Cogevina, that I placed myself, as I have said,
on the 5th of March, 1868. Reversing the method of Mans-
dorf, he placed the silver on my stomach, and the zinc under
the soles of my feet, commencing by an application of ten
minutes, which augmented every day by as much additional
time, arrived finally at nine hours. During three months,
examining me every week, oftener twice than once, at first
with the concurrence of Dr. Cogevina, then by himself alone,
he alternated the poles, placing on the stomach sometimes the
positive, sometimes the negative, varying the duration of the
applications, suspending them occasionally for some days, and
taking as the principal basis of his internal treatment bismuth,
calcined magnesia, and the codeine of Berthe. At the end of
three months he declared that I was cured of my cramps, and
that they could never return. He continued, however, till
December, the use of the apparatus, increasing progressively
the intervals between the applications. He ended by sus¬
pending them altogether. In fact, I was well. Cured by an
invisible hand after having suffered 42 years, and having
exhausted all known medical remedies 1 It is impossible to
retrace here the minute cares, the extreme tenderness, the
■expression of love which accompanied this prolonged treat¬
ment. The soul of this man seemed to follow me everywhere,
to watch over me, and, let the sceptics smile, to knit up with
my own a holy and fraternal relation which my gratitude has
.sealed for eternity.” M. Leon Favre’s narrative is published
in full in the December number of the Spiritual Magazine.
Jan. 14, 1870.
$3oetr)).
THE LAST SCENE OF LIFE.
The blush that made her beautiful
Came back—but faint and weak,
For seventy summers had gone by
Since first it bloom’d her cheek;
The light that used to make her eye
Shed heaven about her brow,
Returned to gleam a little while
In timid lustre now.
They placed her, at her soft request
Beside a cabinet;
They saw the fringes of her eyes
With quiet tears were wet;
They saw her all-transparent hand
Move tremblingly to lift
A little locket from a drawer—
Perhaps ’twas love’s first gift
They stood—Who stood ? Alas, a few
Who knew her but of late;
For time had taken one by one
Each friend of earlier date;
And nothing but her heart—her mind,
Which death alone could blast,
Kept these kind spirits round her then
To watch her to the last.
“ Behold,” she cried, “ this temple, where
My heart’s hoard long hath slept;
Here, all that love, fame, friendship gave,
With gratitude I’ve kept.
No line that left a loving hand
I ever have effaced;
But fondly, in its fitting place,
With tears the token placed.
Praise that once made my young heart glad,
And vows which made it warm,
Have lain within this cabinet,
A hoard, my heart to balm.
Now, cast them for me on the fire,
And let me see the flame!—
First, here are all the offerings
Which fed my hopes of fame:
Among them notes from fleeting friends,
The shooting stars that threw
A passing light upon my path—
Unfixed, but not untrue.
I will not leave it to the world,
To mock with dull disdain
These little meteors of the minds
That flash and fade again.
“Here, here are words of holier weight,
From friends most fond they came!
Oh, they make balm about the room!
Behold how bright their flame!
'‘Your hands, kind friends, for I would rise,
Oh, not thus felt each limb,
When first the pulses of my heart
Awakened unto him."
She had a packet in her hand;
She slowly reached the fire;
She strewed it on the rising flame;
She saw it blaze—expire.
“’Tis over,” then she murmured low,
“ This locket, on my breast,
When in the coffin lies my clay,
Consent to let it rest.
My bones and that will long defy
The demons of decay:
My spirit, and my love’s, my friends—
Great Power ,” she passed away.
And soon the greensward covered her,
And memory, pity, fame,
Preserved alone, of all the past,
A little while—a name.
Fox's Repository.
(terespnlience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers].
WAS SARAH JACOBS STARVED TO DEATH ?
Sir,—On New Year’s-eve, for the second time mj wife saw a
spirit purporting to be that of Sarah Jacobs. She appeared to
be between ten and eleven years old, and was dressed as she
used to be when on earth—viz., in a brown stuff frock, with low
neck and short-puffed sleeves. She said she was not starved
to death; that she had on several occasions gone some weeks
without the slightest particle of food or nourishment, and
accounted for her living so long a time without the usual
necessaries of life, through being incessantly mesmerised by
spirits, of which there were half-a-dozen, who relieved each
other when exhausted.
What is there improbable in the above explanation,
coupled with the evidence given at the inquest, shewing that
the body did not present all the usual signs of death being
caused through starvation ? Is it not a fact that a band of,
or even one powerful mesmerist, could keep a sensitive
some considerable time without food and without causing in
the slightest degree any of the usual tokens of starvation?
Again, is it not a fact well-known to every medical practi¬
tioner that numbers of persons on beds of sickness^ have lived
out not the starvation period of eight days, but twice, three
times, and I believe in some cases, four times that period, with
a supply of nourishment that would starve a rat in a quarter
of the time ? In such cases as these, when worn-down with
disease, will our infallible medical savans inform us what
keeps them alive ? Whether it is the stimulants we moisten
their lips with ? Is the elixir of life in the medical com¬
pounds we force down their throats ? Or are their lives really
kept and nourished by the divine, powerful, and unseen help
of our ever present guardian spirits, till the period arrives to
leave this world for a purer and holier one above ?
12, Forrest-road, Dalston. G. B.
THE “BANNER OF LIGHT” CIRCLE.
The following communication from a spirit who gave the
name of William Young, was received through the medium-
ship of Mrs. J. H. Conant, at 158, Washington-street, Boston,
U.S., on Nov. 8th last. It was published in the Banner of
Light of the first of this month :—
“ Taking full possession of the body and of the senses of a
medium is quite different from spelling out what you wish to
say through two or three, perhaps four or five mediums on our
side. We then get clear of feeling any of the bad feelings
which we are very apt to have, they say, on taking full con¬
trol. We are very apt to think of how we felt just before we
died, and that makes us feel just about the same. I didn’t
know anything about it till after I had got into what they told
me was rapport with this medium. I began to feel sick, and
said so, and then they told me that I should experience pro¬
bably all the bad feelings I had just before I died. Sure
enough, here I am feeling pretty bad. But I have got a work
to do, and must do it. I have come here, where I am not at
all acquainted—away from all the circumstances of life that I
am familiar with, that I may accomplish what I believe in the
end will be a great good. I am from Axebridge, England. I
was between twenty-seven and twenty-eight years old when I
died. I have not been gone quite a year yet—it will be a
year in January. I have left a wife and two children. My
wife is sick—4n the last stages of consumption. She is most
twenty-five years old, as nigh as I can reckon it. My chil¬
dren, two girls, Emma and Mary—one five years old and the
other three, and, as nigh as I can reckon it, they have been
about a month in the Somerset County workhouse, in England.
I have communicated by spelling out what I wanted, and
with three or four on our side to help me, to a curate in our
country, and I have asked him to take my children, and he
said if I could find out where they were he would. I could not
tell him then. I did not know—could only tell him that they
were in Axebridge, but could not get any further. I had
several good kind spirits, who have been teaching me since I
died, to aid me—they are some friends of his—have been very
kind to me, and they have come here with me—one of them,
Mr. Hacker, is going to write to this curate, Mr. Young. [Dr.
Young ?] Yes ; do you know him ? [I think so—a Unitarian
minister?] Yes. Well, Mr. Hacker has written for me there,
at Mr. Young’s house, in Swindon, several times, and others
have, too. But I never could tell them, because I never could
go there to see where my children were. I knew where I left
them—could tell that pretty well—but, you know, where it is
sifted down through four or five sources, it is apt to be very
weak before it gets to its destination. Now I come first¬
handed. 1 am ignorant. I never had any education here—
could read a little, but not much—was a carpenter by trade.
I have told you, as nigh as I can make out, they are in
Somerset County workhouse, been there about a month, and
their mother is just about gone with consumption. Her
name is Mary. My name is William Young, but I am no
relation, as I know of, to the curate. He asked me, when I
communicated in England, if I was, but I couldn’t tell him.
I don’t know, but I don’t think I am. I’ve looked it up, and
don’t think I am. I don’t ask him to take my children for
money, or because I think they will have better position, but
I want them to be taught good spiritual truths, and they will
get it there—a kind, good man, and a blessing to his parish.
It is no wonder, is it ? I have tried hard to get my poor little
ones under his wing, because I know their mother is going to
leave them, and a workhouse life is a terrible life. It hardens
the heart, and makes you what you wouldn’t be if you was out
of it. English workhouses are terrible places—terrible places.
I came to this medium last night, and I learned how I should
proceed of some of her attendants—how I should proceed to
find my children, and I did this forenoon, and got all ready
and come here this afternoon. Mr. Hacker is going to write
to Mr. Young. He will probably get his written message
before he gets mine, but no matter—and he can write to the
workhouse and find out, if it’s too much trouble for him to go.
And I want to tell Daisy—she is a medium out there in
England—that I will bless her as long as I live for helping
me as she has. [The one through whom you made raps?]
No, I wrote through some kind of a thing. [Blanchette?]
I don’t know. They called it an indicator, or something.
But, you know, I told you I couldn’t come first-handed. I
think there were five nearer the earth than I was ; but I am
right here myself to-day. I am weak. I died—some of the
doctors here tell me—of marasmus, induced by poor living—
a kind of consumption all over. [You can come next time
with more strength.] Oh, I have got along right well to-day.
Now, you know, you are to send, don’t you ? [Yes: Dr.
Young takes the paper.] Oh yes—well, Mr. Hacker will
write him. They told me the message would be delayed
about a month, and Mr. Hacker will write him, so he
will get word from here. [Through some medium ?] Here,
this one — that gentleman, Mr. — what do you call him ?
a curate here, or something. I don’t know what he was—
preacher, was he ? that comes to her. [Mr. Parker ?] Yes ;
he said as soon as it was right that I should have a fair and
square opportunity to do just what I had to do. He told Mr.
Hacker that he should write just as soon as a fair opportunity
presented itself, and that it would be very quick. [Your
name will be announced next week.] Oh yes; then it will
be known that I have been here. I thank you, I thank you.”
THE EDUCATION OF THE YOUNG.
“ Now, close your book, Bob,” said the mother soon after I
was seated, “ and Alice, give me yours. Put your hands
down, turn from the fire, and look up at me, dears. What is
the capital of Russia ?’’
“ The Birman Empire,” said Alice with unhesitating con¬
fidence.
“ The Baltic Sea,” said Bob, emulous and ardent.
“ Wait—not so fast; let me see, my dears, which of you is
right.”
Mrs. Thompson appealed immediately to her book, after a
long and private communication with which she emphatically
pronounced both wrong.
“ Give us a chance, mother,” said Bob in a wheedling tone
(Bob knew his mother’s weaknesses); “ Them’s such hard
words. I don’t know how it is, but somehow I never can
remember ’em. Just tell us the first syllable—oh, do now—
please.”
“ Oh! I know now I ” cried Alice, “ Its something with a
‘ G ’ in it.’’
“ Think of the apostles, dears. What are the names of the
apostles ? ”
“Why, there’s Moses,” began Bob, counting on his fingers ;
“ and there’s Sammy well, and there’s Aaron, and Noah’s
Ark I
“ Stop, my dear,” said Mrs. Thompson, who was very busy
with her manual, and contriving a method of rendering, a
solution of her question easy ; “ Just begin again. I said—
who was Peter ?—no, not that—who was an apostle ? ”
“ Oh! I know now ! ” cried Alice again (Alice was the
sharp boy of the family) ; “ It’s Peter. Peter’s the capital of
Russia.”
“ No, not quite, my dear. You are very warm—very warm
indeed, but not quite hot. Try again.”
“ Paul,” half murmured Robert, with a reckless hope of
proving right.
“ No. Peter’s right, but there’s something else. What has
your father been taking down the beds Tor ?”
There was a solemn silence, and the three industrious sisters
blushed the faintest possible blush that could be raised upon a
maiden’s cheek.
“ To rub that stuff upon the walls,” said the ready Alice.
“ Yes, but what was it to kill ? ” continued the instructress.
“ The fleas,” said Bob.
“ Worse than that, my dear.’’
“ Oh, I know now 1 ” shrieked Alice for the third time;
“ Petersbug's the capital of Russia.”
Mrs. Thompson looked at me with pardonable vanity and
triumph.—Blackwood's Magazine.
Jan. 14, 1870
THE SPIRITUALIST
39
FACTS FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
As this Journal will necessarily often come
under the observation of those who are not
Spiritualists, it has been thought judicious to
reprint regularly on this and the next page,
the following condensed evidence that spiri¬
tualism deserves serious investigation. The
phenomena witnessed in spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Eobert
Chambers, Mr. C. P. Yarley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. C. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home. The following
was the affidavit of Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E.,
F.R.G.S., M.E.I.:—
“ I, Cromwell Fleetwood Yarley, of Fleetwood House,
Beckenham, in the County of Kent, Esquire, make oath
and say as follows:—
“ I have keen a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one. years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
-Company.
“ About nine or ten years ago, having had my atten¬
tion directed to the subject of Spiritualism by its spon¬
taneous and unexpected development in my own family
in the form of clairvoyant visions and communications,
I determined to test the truth of the alleged physical
phenomena to the best of my ability, and to ascertain,
if possible, the nature of the force which produced them.
“Accordingly, about eight years ago, I called on Mr.
Home, the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena., but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in. every possible
way, and I have been with him on divers occasions
when the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with, others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and. having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself'examined
were not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
On the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.
“ The subject of course offers many opportunities and
inducements for fraud, and I only speak of what I have
myself seen and tested. Since my acquaintance with
Mr. Home began I have pursued the enquiry, and I have
found engaged in it able, learned, and scientific men,
who are convinced as I am, that the physical manifesta¬
tions are but the introduction to, an extensive field of
mental and physical knowledge which will in a great
measure explain and reconcile the beliefs of all ages and
nations. I know of several instances both in Europe
and America in which this course of study has awak¬
ened the perception of the purest and loftiest truths and
principles. There have been no doubt cases in which
the intellect has been too feeble for the stimulus, and
has been overpowered by it, just as frequently results
from excessive application to religion and ofher exciting
topics, but such cases have not come within my own
observation.
“Mr. Home, like several other non-professional me-
diems whose cases I have studied, was passive during
the occurrence of the manifestations. He, like the
other mediums, is extremely susceptible to external in¬
fluences, and has a mind better suited to receive impres¬
sions than to prosecute enquiries. I willingly testify my
entire conviction of his truthfulness and honesty.
“ 0. F. VARLEY.”
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Eussia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—
“Cromwell F. Varley, Esq.,Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham ; Alfred R. Wallace; Esq., 9, St. Mark’s-crescent,
N.W.; Professor De Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Drayson, R.A., Woolwich; Dr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Dr. J. J. G. Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Dr. Dixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. 0. Hall, Esq., IS, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Robert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
D. Jencken, Esq., Kilmorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 52, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Gakfield, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
The following is an extract from another
affidavit, made in the suit of Lyon v. Home:—
“ I, James Manby Gully, of The Priory, Great Malvern,
in the County of Worcester, doctor of medicine, make
oath and say as follows:—
“I have known the above-named defendant, Daniel
Dunglass Home, for seven years and upwards, last past,
and have during that period been in the habit of attend¬
ing him professionally, and also of receiving him in my
house as a personal friend, and I have never had the
smallest reason to doubt his character as a man of
honour and proper moral feeling.
“ I have during the past seven years witnessed both
in my own house, and elsewhere, in the presence of the J
said Mr. Home many curious occurrences, which I am
unable to explain, in the way of singular phenomena,
such as displacement of objects without physical con¬
tact, &c., and from my personal and careful investiga¬
tions (which Mr. Home himself ever urges) I am positive
that it is not in consequence of any trick or device that
such phenomena occur. I have even been witness to
singular phenomena when the said Mr. Home was not in
the same room, and also when he has been asleep. I
have never known the said Mr. Home receive money for
what is termed ‘a seance,' but I have known him re¬
peatedly refuse offers of as much as twenty guineas for
a single seance. “ J- M. Gully, M.D.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred E. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subj ect. Eecently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
The Spiritual Magazine for October, 1869, gives
the following names of friends of Spiritualism
who have now and then contributed to its pages:—
“Viscount Adare; John Ashbumer, M.D., Translator
of Reichenbach, author of Philosophy of Animal Mag¬
netism and Spiritualism; T. B. Barkas, author of Outlines
of Ten Tears' Investigation into the Phenomena of Modern
Spiritualism; George Barth; Richard Beamish, F.R.S.,
author of The Life of Brunei; Rev. S. E. Bengough,
M.A.; Edward L. Blanchard; Edward Brotherton; Cap¬
tain Richard F. Burton (the African traveller;) William
Carpenter, author of Political Letters, The English Bible;
Captain Edward Henry Chawner; Henry T. Child,
M.D. (Philadelphia, U.S.A.); Benjamin Coleman, author
of Spiritualism in America; Robert Collyer, M.D., F.C.S.;
Christopher Cook; Robert Cooper, author of Spiritual
Experiences; Mrs. De Morgan, author of From Matter to
Spirit; Jacob Dixon, L.R.C.P., author of Clairvoyance,
Hygienic, and Medical; Hugh Doherty, M.D-, author of
Organic Philosophy; Captain Drayson, R.A.; Judge
Edmonds (New York); Captain H. A Fawcett, R.N.;
John M. Gully, M.D.; Professor W. D. Gunning (Boston,
H.S.A.); Samuel Carter Hall, F.S.A.; Emma Hardinge;
George Harris, M.A., F.S.A., President of the Manches¬
ter Anthropological Society; W. E. Hickson, late editor
of the Westminster Foreign Quarterly Review; Rev. A.
W. Hobson, M.A.; Baron C. Dirckinck Holmfeld; Daniel
Dunglass Home; Rev. J. Page Hopps, editor of The
Truthseeker; Mary Howitt; William Howitt; Henry D.
Jeneken, M.R.I., F.G.S.; John Jones, author of Man:
Physical, Apparitional, and Spiritual; Rev. William
Ker, M. A.: Seymour Kirkup (Florence); Andrew Leigh¬
ton ; Robert Leighton; Kenneth R. P. Mackenzie, F.S.A.;
Rev. William Mountford (Boston, U.S.A.); A. E. New¬
ton (Boston, U.S.A.) author of The Ministry of Angels
Realised; Mary S. Gove Nichols; J. H. Powell: Baron
Reichenbach, author of Researches on the Byna/mics of
Magnetism; Elihu Rich, author of several articles in the
Encyclopsedia Metropolitana; J. Lockhart Robertson,
M.R.C.P.: Mary 0. Hume Rothery; Rev. W .Hume
Rothery, M.A.; Epes Sargent, author of The Planchette;
Thomas Shorter; Rev. W. R. Tomlinson, M.A.; Crom¬
well F. Varley, F.R.G.S.; 0. Staniland Wake, author of
Chapters bn Man; Alfred R. Wallace; A. M. H. Watts;
William White, author of Emanuel Swedenborg: His
Life and Writings; W. M. Wilkinson, author of Spirit
Drawings; James J. Garth Wilkinson, M.D., author of
The Human Body, and its Connection with Man; Rev. F.
R. Young.”
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Olifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words :—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved per testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager.
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.’
“ In either case, the seances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the victorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope thii is plain English.
“Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Damiani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol’ will always reach the writer.”
In addition to. the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modern spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
All these facts, together with those which
follow, prove that Spiritualism deserves serious
investigation. Not a few learned men have pri¬
vately been examining the phenomena in order to
“ explode the imposture,” but these extinguishers
soon catch fire themselves. In short, in the
minds of most of the English public, Spiritualism
has to pass through the following five stages:—
1. The manifestations do not take place.
2. Spiritualism is a gross imposture.
3. It is a delusion.
4. It is the work of the Devil.
5. It is a great blessing, and we always said so.
Experience shows that the feebler the intellect,
and the lower the standard of energy and educa¬
tion, the sooner does the investigator break down
at one of the first four out of the above five steps
in the ladder of progress.
MR. HOME’S AFFIDAVIT.
In the Chancery suit of Lyon v. Home, for the
recovery of certain monies given by Mrs. Lyon
to Mr. Home against the advice of her lawyer
and her friends, Mr. Home made an affidavit, from
which the following is an extract:—
“ I, Daniel Dunglass Home, of 22, Sloane-street, in
the Gounty of Middlesex, one of the above-named de¬
fendants, make oath and say as follows:—
“ I was born in Scotland on the 20th of March, 1838,
and from my childhood have been subject to the occa¬
sional happening of singular physical phenomena in my
presence, which are most certainly not produced by me
or by any other person in connection with me. I have
no control over them whatever: they occur irregularly,
and even when I am asleep. Sometimes I am many
months, and once I have been a year without them.
They will not happen when I wish, and my will has
nothing to do with them. I cannot account for them
further than by supposing them to be effected by intelli¬
gent beings or spirits. Similar phenomena occur to
many other persons.... These phenomena occurring in
my presence have been witnessed by thousands of
intelligent and respectable persons, including men of
business, science, and literature, under circumstances
which would have rendered, even if I desired it, all
trickery impossible. They have been witnessed repeat¬
edly and in their own private apartments, when any
contrivance of mine must have been detected, by their
Majesties the Emperor and the Empress of the French,
their Majesties the Emperor, Empress and late Empress
Dowager of Russia, their Imperial Highnesses the Grand
Duke and Duchess Constantine of Russia and the mem¬
bers of their august family, their Majesties the King of
Prussia, the late King of Bavaria, the present and late
King of 'Wiirtemberg, the Queen of Holland, and the
members of the Royal Family of Holland; and many
of these august personages have honoured, and I be¬
lieve still honour, me with their esteem and goodwill, as
I have resided in some of their palaces as a gentleman
and their guest, and not as a paid or professional per¬
son. They have had ample opportunities, which they
have used, of investigating these phenomena, and of
inquiring into my character. I have resided in America,
England, France, Italy, Germany, and Russia, and in
every country I have been received as a guest and
friend by persons in the highest position in society, who
were quite competent to discover and expose, as they
ought to have done, anything like contrivance on my
part to produce these phenomena. I do not seek, and
never have sought, the acquaintance of any of these
exalted personages. They have sought me, and I have
thus had a certain notoriety thrust upon me. I do not
take money, and never have taken it, although it has
been repeatedly offered me for or in respect of these
phenomena, or the communications which appear to be
made by them. I am not in the habit of receiving those
who are strangers to me, and I never force the subject
of Spiritualism on any one’s attention. .. . Some of the
phenomena in question are noble and elevated, others
appear to be grotesque and undignified. For this I am
not responsible, any more than I am for the many
grotesque and undignified things which are undoubtedly
permitted to exist in the material world. I solemnly
swear that I do not produce the phenomena aforesaid,
or in any way whatever aid in producing them,” &c.
“ I have been subjected to much persecution through¬
out my life, because of my conscientious belief as to the
meaning and great purpose of spiritual phenomena
taken as a whole. That belief I have not, like the
plaintiff, foresworn. I have always courted the strictest
investigation, although I have not condescended to
notice all the attacks and anonymous slanders that have
been circulated respecting me. The book shown to me
at the time of swearing this affidavit, marked H 8, con¬
tains a correct list of upwards of 1,300 letters, with the
writers’ names, which I still retain (after having de¬
stroyed about 10,000), written to me by persons of every
rank and class, including persons of the highest social,
political, literary, and scientific position, who have in¬
vestigated these phenomena, and corresponded with me
about them. After the fullest opportunities of examina¬
tion, they have formed different opinions as to their
origin and meaning; but I believe that all are
thoroughly satisfied of my entire honesty in the matter;
and lately, while the plaintiff’s base and unfounded
charges of fraud and imposition have been hanging
over me, and during the months of January and
February, 1868, these phenomena have been thoroughly
tested by another scientific man, named Mr. Hawkins
Simpson, the inventor of electrical apparatus, including
one for printing at a distance by the telegraph—a
drawing and description of which were, as I am in¬
formed and believe, given in the Engineer newspaper of
the 15th November, 1867.”
Omitting the remainder of Mr. Home’s affidavit,
the following evidence given by him before the
Dialectical Society, is of interest:—
“ He had seen a pencil lifted by a spirit hand write on
paper in the presence of the Emperor Napoleon. This
took place in a large room, the Salon Louis Quinze. The
Empress was also present. The hand, after writing,
went to the Emperor, who kissed it; it then went to the
Empress; she withdrew from the touch, and the hand
followed her. The Emperor said, ‘Do not be fright¬
ened, kiss it! ’ She then kissed it, and it shortly after¬
wards disappeared. The writing was an autograph
of the Emperor Napoleon I. The Emperor of Russia
had also seen and handled spirit hands, which after¬
wards seemed to melt away into thin air.”
The Emperor Napoleon has been at a great
many of Mr. Home’s seances, and Mr. Home was
asked by members of the Dialectical Society t@
state other things which had been observed on
those occasions. Mr. Home said that he did not
feel at liberty to state any more than the Emperor
was in the habit of telling himself.
"WHAT IS THE USE OF SPIRITUALISM ?
Strange to say there are people who can ask
what is the use of communication with friends
and relatives, who have passed the great barrier
of the grave. One use of Spiritualism is, that all
Spiritualists who lead moderately good lives, are
found to gradually lose the fear of death. Spirits
through the agency of suitable media have much
power in the healing of diseases, and the removal
of deformities, though such power is far from
absolute. The following is a narrative, published
in Daybrealc, of some of the powers exercised
through Mr. Newton, the best healing medium in
the United States; he is expected to visit England
in the course of the year 1870. The following ex¬
ample from a very boundless field of choice, is
enough for the present on the subject of the uses
of Spiritualism:—
‘Friday. May 22, of the present year (1868) will for
ever remain one of the most memorable days of my life.
It was on that day, when the sun was shining brightly
and bathing the world with its light and heat, that I
arrived at Newport, Rhode Island, and first came under
the healing powers of Dr. J. A. Newton. I had heard
of him through The Spiritual Magazine, Mr. William
Howitt, and Mr. Coleman, and was assured that if I
placed myself in his hands I should be speedily and
radically cured of the neuralgic affection in my head,
for which I had been suffering for eleven years. It was
not until I had become a little more familiar with some
of the facts and phenomena of modem Spiritualism
that I felt a quiet faith in the power of Dr. Newton to
remove my disease. Having once attained to that state
of mind, and becoming satisfied that it was my duty to
cross the Atlantic in search of health, I made arrange¬
ments for doing so, and left Liverpool for New York on
Saturday, May 9, arriving at the latter place on Tuesday
evening, the 19th. * * * * The moment Dr. New¬
ton and I met, I found in his face and simple kindly
manner a human image of the outside sunshine, and
but few words had been spoken when I was convinced
that the errand upon which I had come would be ful¬
filled. I was about to give him the history in detail of
my affliction when he stopped me by saying, ‘That
after I had been cured he would be very glad to listen
to anything I might wish to say, but that the cure itself
was the first matter to be attended to.’ He then poured
a large quantity of very hot water upon my head while
I was leaning it over a basin into which the water fell.
After my head had been dried with a coarse towel, I
was made to sit upon a moveable seat, similar to a
music-stool, the doctor standing behind me, and placing
my head against his chest with his hands crossed upon
my forehead. He then moved my head in various
directions until all at once a clicking noise was heard at
the top of my spine. The doctor immediately cried out,
‘ That noise is the sign that you will be cured; the dis¬
turbance of the nerve current has been removed.’ He
then faced me, and lifting both his hands towards
heaven, he looked me hard in the face, saying, ‘ Look at
me. In the name of God our Heavenly Father, and of
the Lord Jesus Christ the Great Healer, I bid this
disease depart from this dear suffering brother and
never more afflict him. It is gone—it is gone—it is
gone for ever, my brother; you are cured; rise up on
your feet and be cured.’ At that instant I felt a strong
current of new life flowing into and through every part
of my body, and I was conscious that I had entered
upon an altogether new phase of existence. From that
day to the present hour, July 13, I have been entirely
free from my pain, and have felt as well, I should think,
as it is possible for any human being to feel. Physically
speaking, I am a new creature; old things have passed
away and all things have become new. Of course it is
not for me to say absolutely that the cure will be per¬
manent, but, if I may judge from my present expe¬
rience, I see no reason why it should not be so.
Wonderful as my case is, it is only one of thousands, so
far as Dr. Newton is concerned. He has cured almost
every form of disease, and removed almost every kind
of suffering. In fact, he appears to have done every¬
thing but raise the dead. And yet even he does not
cure all cases, and this failure enables him to keep alive
the consciousness that it is not he who cures, but God
who works in and through him. He tells me that he
has cured something like a quarter of a million of
people. » * * * Most of his cures are done without
fee or reward. In my own case he steadily refused to
take a single dollar, and I saw him act in like manner
towards several others. During my stay I witnessed
1 several instances of his healing power; some of them
being so manifest as to defy all attempts at explaining
them away. On the very morning that my own cure
was effected, I witnessed his cure of a paralytic who for
three years had been unable to walk without the aid of
crutches, and even then, only in a partial degree. This
woman was brought by her parents to Newport, and, in
less than five minutes from the time when she came
under Dr. Newton’s hands, she got up from the couch
on which she had been laid, and walked away up the
street and back again, a full mile, and afterwards
walked and ran and jumped and danced, as so many
signs that her cure was a complete one. I also saw him
cure a young man who had a withered hand. Indeed, I
might have seen day by day, and hour by hour, ex¬
amples of this healing power had I chosen to have done
so. Every now and again, there are trains from Boston
and Providence freighted with the lame, the halt, the
blind, and the diseased, sometimes to the number of
500 or 600. These come to Newport, and a large majo¬
rity of them are sent away perfectly cured. In one part
of Dr. Newton’s house there is a room of considerable
size, full of crutches, sticks, spectacles, eye-shades,
bandages, and other memorials of disease and sickness
which have been left behind by patients as so many
signs and trophies of their cure.
******
“ Frederick Rowland Young,
“ Minister of the Free Christian Church, Swindon.”
There are very many healing mediums in the
United States, who can do good only in certain
diseases, or whose powers are so feeble that suc¬
cessful results may with more probability of accu¬
racy be put down to the imagination of the
patient.
A great use of Spiritualism is that it demon¬
strates the immortality of the soul. But why
ask, “ Of what use is Spiritualism ?” for here the
thing is in our midst as much a part of nature as
the trees, the clouds, and the flowers, and as it
cannot be abolished there is no alternative but to
subject it to investigation, or to look jpn in igno¬
rance.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fnlly developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will .be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thns started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
40
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 14, 1870
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
In contact with its top surface. "Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just largo enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. "When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who. is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing the many kinds of mediumship will be found
in Mrs. Professor Do Morgan’s book, From Matter I
to Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is a
good book to read before trying to start a new
circle. It usually takes several years for any
medium to attain full power, and it is not an
uncommon although not an everyday thing, for
chairs and other articles to move about in the
presence of a good well-developed physical medium
without anybody touching the articles at all. This
fact effectually disposes of Faraday’s “ unconscious
muscular action ” theory. Some have suggested
that Ihe phenomena are all mental, since mental
conditions influence their production, and that
those present all believe they see and hear things
which they do not in reality see and hear. The
answer is that there is sometimes such a noise
with improperly powerful manifestations that the
sounds are heard all over the house by persons
not in the room; the furniture sometimes gets
broken by movements of too violent a character,
and the broken portions remain as evidence that
the phenomena were not of a mental character.
The upholsterers’ bills which result also serve to
convince that the occurrences are facts. The
higher spirits seem to have little power over
common matter, and the highest communications
are not usually obtained through physical mani¬
festations.
There are in England several very interesting,
circles for physical manifestations, where the
spirits speak with audible voices, but, unfortu¬
nately, total darkness is a necessary condition.
Non-spiritualists who are inquiring into the sub¬
ject should have nothing to do with dark seances,
. which, should vbe held only by those who know
each other, since they offer so many facilities for
fraud. Wheii any circle regularly obtains power¬
ful physical manifestations, they may desire to sit
for the voices. The very slightest glimmer of
light must be excluded from the room, while the
members 'of the circle sit round the table in the
ordinary way. One or two paper tubes, each
twelve or eighteen inches long, with an orifice
about an inch-and-a-half in diameter, should be
placed on the table. They may be readily made
by rolling up a piece of music and tying a few
pieces of cotton round the rough tube thus formed.
In the early stages of a voice-circle these tubes
are necessary for the use of the spirits, but after¬
wards they may be dispensed with except when
the weather and other conditions are rinfavour-
able. When first trying to obtain the voices the
spirits may not be able to lift the tubes from the
table, afterwards they often get them up in the
air a foot or two and let them drop again. When
they get full control over them they can carry
them about up to the ceiling and to all parts of
the room, and they talk to the members of the
circle often while floating about above their heads.
Very beautiful luminous phenomena are some¬
times shown by the spirits at dark circles. While
sitting for the voices, the spirits will tell by the
ordinary table signals how they are progressing in
their work of getting control of the tubes.
Every human being is surrounded by an atmo¬
sphere which to the spirits is luminous and mate¬
rial, and this atmosphere is largely used by the
spirits in the production of the physical manifes¬
tations. Baron Beichenbach, while he knew
nothing of Spiritualism, discovered by experiment
the presence of unknown forces emanating from
human bodies, and published the results in his
Researches on Animal Magnetism. All the pheno¬
mena of Spiritualism draw temporarily upon the
vital powers of those composing the circle, but
the medium is the chief source of energy.
A still atmosphere and subdued light in the
room are favourable conditions for the physical
manifestations.
SPIMTUALISM AND MEN OE SCIENCE
Sir J. Emerson Tennent once invited Faraday
to a seance at which Mr. Home was to be the
medium. Faraday wrote and asked for a pro¬
gramme of the manifestations, and as nobody
knows beforehand what will take place at a circle
any more than the details of an expected star-
shower can be given in advance, it was not pos¬
sible to comply with his demand. Faraday also
required an answer to the following questions,
among others, before attending:—
“Would he [Mr. Home] he glad if their [the manifesta¬
tion's] delusive character were established and exposed,
and would he gladly help to expose it, or would he he
annoyed and personally offended? [The italics in this
sentence are not in the original.]
“ Does he consider the effects natural or supernatural ?
If natural, what are the laws which govern them? or
does he think that they are not subject to laws? If
supernatural, does he suppose them to he miracles, or
the work of spirits ? If the work of spirits, would an
insult to the spirits be considered as an insult to
himself?"
Mr. Home took no notice of the above insults,
and, it is believed, never wrote Faraday in the
first instance, or took any notice of him whatever.
He never even saw his letters.
Dr. John Tyndall, F.R.S., in a note dated May
8, 1868, commenting upon Faraday’s letter just
mentioned, wrote:—
“ I hold myself in readiness to witness and investigate,
in the spirit of the foregoing letter [of Faraday’s], such
phenomena as Mr Home may wish to reveal to me
during the month of June.”
A few days previously Mr. Home had written
in the Pall Mall Gazette:—
“ It will give ms pleasure to meet Professor Tyndall,
and any two gentlemen he shall designate. On my side
I shall have at least two gentlemen whose names and
position place them above the suspicion of aiding or
abetting a fraud. I will meet Professor Tyndall and
these gentlemen when and where they please, and
under such circumstances as they may decide on. I
must only crave their patience if nothing should occur
at the first, or even the second, stance.” '
From that day to this Dr. Tyndall has not
accepted the above invitation.
A demand for a programme where no programme
can be given, and the writing of supercilious
letters in reply to civil invitations, amounts prac¬
tically to a refusal to observe facts. Dr. Tyndall,
and men who act like him, are recommended to
bear in mind the 'following words of Galileo :—
“ Oh, my dear Kepler, how I wish that we could have
our hearty laugh together. Here, at Padua, is the prin¬
cipal professor of philosophy, whom I have repeatedly
and urgently requested to look at the moon and planets
through my glass, which he pertinaciously refuses to do.
"Why are you not here ? What shouts of laughter we
should have at this glorious folly; to hear the Professor
of Philosophy at Pisa, labouring before the Grand Duke
with logical arguments, as if with magical incantations
to charm the planets out of the sky! ”
A little society known as the Dialectical Society,
is now investigating Spiritualism. It numbers
among its members many shrewd and intelligent
men, belonging chiefly to the legal and medical
professions. Spiritualists watch its proceedings
with a moderate amount of interest; nothing that
any man or body of men may say or do can alter
the established phenomena and laws of nature.
THE LITERATURE OF SPIRITUALISM.
The literature of Spiritualism now consists of
several hundreds of volumes, good, bad, and indif¬
ferent, and almost entirely of American origin.
Among the best volumes on the subject are Mrs
De Morgan’s From Matter to Spirit (Longmans)
with a preface by Professor De Morgan, President
of the Mathematical Society of London; The
Planchette, by Epes Sargent; Spiritualism (2 vols.),
by Judge Edmonds and G. T. Dexter, of New
York ; a History of Spiritualism, by Emma Hard-
inge ; and The Autobiography of Andrew Jackson
Davis. An interesting book, consisting simply of
narrations of facts witnessed at remarkable seances,
is Incidents of My Life (Longmans), by D. D.
Home. The Soul of Things, by Denton, is a curious
book indirectly connected with Spiritualism, and
worth reading. Those unacquainted with Spiri¬
tualism are recommended to read these books in
•the order in which they have just been mentioned.
The only large lending library of Spiritual books
in Great Britain is that belonging to Mr. J. Burns,
15, Southampton-row, High Holbdm, London,
W.O. The English periodicals on the subject
are, The Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, Day¬
break, and The Spiritualist.
H ADVICE TO INQUIRERS.
Those who know no intelligent Spiritualists,
and nothing about Spiritualism, yet who want to
investigate, are recommended to begin by reading
the first two books mentioned in the preceding
paragraph. Then they should call upon the chief
publisher of Spiritual books in London, Mr. J.
Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holborn (where they
are sure to be treated with attention and courtesy),
and ask for the names and addresses of say four
good professional or non-professional mediums,
accessible to the public, and “ recognised by Spiri¬
tualists as reliable for powerful physical manifes¬
tations.” There are plenty of mediums Or of people
who fancy themselves mediums, who can rarely show
anything satisfactory, and with whom an inquirer
might waste much time. He should then get say
two sittings by daylight in his own house with
each of the four mediums, because the power
varies in strength at times with every medium;
at the end of the eight sittings he is sure to be
thoroughly interested in Spiritualism, and to have
thrown overboard the imposture theory, which is
the clumsiest and most superficial one of all.
Many of the public have vague ideas that electri¬
city can do all kinds of unaccountable things, but
A GENUINE MEDIUM NEVER HAS ANY HESITATION
IN SITTING WITH A CIRCLE IN A HOUSE AND AMONG
FURNITURE WHICH HE OR SHE HAS NEVER SEEN IN
his OR her life before. Even with a good
medium it is best, if time be valuable, not to
investigate at crowded public circles, because,
assuming imposture to be at work, there is no
telling who may not be aiding, among the
numerous spectators. Besides, where so many
people want to ask questions of the spirits, the
investigator has not time to put many himself.
Investigators are recommended to be thus careful
in the selection of mediums, because as public
attention is gradually more rivetted upon Spiri¬
tualism, impostors are sure to spring up, and even
to advertise in Spiritual periodicals, for the editors
manifestly cannot investigate the claims of every
professing medium. At present (November, 1869)
there is very little imposture mixed up with the
Spiritual movement in Great Britain, and there are
only four or five paid mediums in all London.
Good paid mediums deserve high praise rather
than that censure which is thrbwn upon them even
by Spiritualists; they find house-room; they are
ready to receive strangers at stated’ times when
private circles could not sit for the convenience of
inquirers; the sittings exhaust their vitality like a
hard days’ work, and they have to put up with
much abuse when uneducated roughs unaccus¬
tomed to investigation persecute them by attend¬
ing. The inquirer should mention to the medium,
civilly and kindly, his doubts respecting the
phenomena he may witness; the invisible beings
around will at once, on the spot, do their best to
remove those doubts, or an explanation will be
obtained from the medium. When there is real
foundation for suspicion, the best plan is to go
often to the medium, accompanied by witnesses,
detect the imposture, and prosecute the medium
for obtaining money under false pretences.
Genuine manifestations are not under the control
of the medium, so that a paid medium who does
not get manifestations, is under a great temptation
to try to make them. This fact makes it difficult
for Spiritualists to speak absolutely as to the relia¬
bility of any paid mediums, however genuine the
majority of the manifestations may be which occur
in their presence. After, getting thoroughly inte¬
rested in Spiritual phenomena, the inquirer should
take his friends to see them, and afterwards get up
a private circle in his own house. Manifestations
will most likely not be obtained at the first sitting,
but after very few or very many sittings they will
come; gradually the great barrier of the grave
which now separates friends will be broken down,
and after the experience of a year or two the
dread of the beautiful natural process, called
“ death,” will be destroyed, as it is destroyed in
the minds of all experienced Spiritualists, except
those who during life have done harm to their
fellow-creatures. Yery high spirits and their
homes are perfectly invisible to very low spirits ;
this, coupled with the fact that there is no more
uniformity in the next world than there is here,
accounts for the endless contradictions about spirit
life given in Spiritual communications.
An investigator of a logical and scientific turn of
mind may possibly have to closely follow up the
subject for some weeks before gaining the absolute
knowledge that the manifestations come from
spirits. Unlike Mr. Home and a few other excep¬
tional individuals, most mediums are developed
for one or two special purposes only. Thus, vio¬
lent physical manifestations, inexplicable by any
of the recognised laws of matter, may be seen in
the presence of one medium, but mental tests and
questions may bring forth a majority of inaccurate
and unreliable answers. Where good mental tests
are obtainable through a medium, the physical
manifestations may be altogether absent.
There are so few public or semi-public spirit
circles at work in London, and the pressure for
admission is so great where the manifestations are
good, that the best plan for novices is usually to
try to get manifestations at home among their own
friends.
JOSEPH BABKEB’S AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
Now ready, neatly bound in cloth, price 2s. 6d.
mEACHINGS OF EXPERIENCE; or,
JL Lessons I have Learned on my "Way through
Life.
London: James Beveridge, 9, 10, 11, Fullwood’s-rents,
Holbom, W.C.
WOMAN NATURE, a Monthly Record
JlJL of Zoistic Science, Intelligence, and Popular
Anthropology. Recent numbers give full details of the
extraordinary Manifestations through the celebrated
Medium, D. D. Home, Esq., with philosophical reason¬
ings as to the nature and cause of the phenomena: a
new series of lessons on Phrenology and the Tempera¬
ments is being given, containing some new instructions
of great value to the student; first-class Portraits of
eminent men and women, with Biographies and Phreno¬
logical delineations are frequently introduced; a serial
Tale of great power and beauty; articles on Physiology,
Diet, Temperance, and Health; translations from Con¬
tinental "Works and Periodicals; treatises on Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Spiritualism; reviews of Books; reports
of Lectures, Meetings, and Societies, renders this the
cheapest, most varied, and instructive Periodical of the
kind in the world. The fact that this Periodical is en¬
tirely unbiased and devoted to the truth respecting all
the topics on which it treats, is a point not to be over¬
looked by all earnest investigators, whatever “ their
opinions may be. Post free, 7s. per annum, or fid. per
month from the Booksellers. James Burns, Progres¬
sive Library, 15, Southampton-row, Bloomsbury-square,
Holbom, London, "W.C.
THE PROGRESSIVE LIBRARY and
SPIRITUALIST DEPOSITORY has been re¬
moved from Camberwell to No. 15, Sonthampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, W.C.
There is a Publishing Office and Shop for the sale of
Books; a Circulating Library of all Works on Spiritualism.
&c.; a Reading-Room supplied with the Spiritual and
Progressive Publications of the World; a Drawing-
Room for the special use of Ladies and Subscribers;
Private Rooms for Stances, Committees, Meetings, &e.,
and where all information respecting the Cause and the
Progress of events may be obtained.
The Subscription, entitling to all the privileges of the
Establishment, including the use of two Books at a
time from the Library for home perusal, is 21s. per annum
A well-assorted Stock of Stationery, Periodicals, cur¬
rent Progressive Literature, Standard Works, Cheap
Books and Tracts, Planchettes, Materials for Writing
and Drawing Mediums; also Works and Appliances on
Phrenology, Physiology, Health, and Dietetic Reform,
Temperance, Hydropathy, Gymnastics, Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Anthropology, &c., will be kept on sale.
As the responsibilities incurred in establishing this
“ Home for Spiritualism ” and the Science of Man are
very heavy, the Proprietor earnestly solicits the kind
co-operation and support of all who sympathise with
the enterprise. Strangers in London should at once
call at the Progressive Library, where they may hear of
Lodgings and get other useful information.
J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, London, W.C.
The spiritual magazine, pub¬
lished Monthly, contains all the news of Spiri¬
tualism, and psychological articles by writers of ability.
Publisher, James Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom,
W.C.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT, the Chief
Weekly Newspaper on Spiritualism in the United
States, may be ordered through Mr. J AMES Burns, 15,
gouthampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
R. J. L. OLIVE, Professor of Modern
Spiritual Science, 1, Gibson-place, Warrington-
crescent, Maida Vale, W. Mr. Olive is prepared to afford
information relative to Spiritualism, the Development of
Mediumistic power, &c., with facilities for investigation
of Phenomena. Reliable advice based on large medical
experience, and aided by beneficent Spirit Intelligences,
may also be obtained for the relief of ailments of Body
or Mind. Consultation Fee, One Shilling.
On the first of every month.
THE TRUTHSEEKER, a Review,
devoted to the advocacy of reverent free
thought in matters pertaining to Religion.” Edited by
the Rev. J. PAGE HGPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triibner and Co., 60, Patemoster-row. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Rawson, and John Heywood; and
through all booksellers and agents.
“ THE NEWSPAPER PRESS ’’—THE PRESS ORGAN
THIS JOURNAL is the adopted and re¬
cognised Representative of the Newspaper in¬
terests, and the medium of intercommunication between
Proprietors, Editors, Reporters, Correspondents, Pub¬
lishers, Printers, and all parties associated with News¬
papers.
“We hail with satisfaction the addition of the News¬
paper Press to the journalism of the United Kingdom.’
—Saunders’ News Letter.
“ Information of a kind peculiarly valuable to every
one connected with newspapers.”—Dublin Freeman's
Journal.
“We feel it our duty especially to commend it to all
newspaper men.”—Brighton Gazette.
Subscriptions, 4s. per annum, post free, payable in ad¬
vance.
London: E. W. Allen, Publisher, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
The only Cheap Weekly Horticultural Journal.
2d. Weekly; and in Monthly Parts, lOd.
THE GARDENER’S MAGAZINE for
Amateur Cultivators, Collectors, and Exhibitors
of Plants, Flowers and Fruits, for Gentlemen’s Gar¬
deners, Florists, Nurserymen, and Seedsmen; for Na¬
turalists, Botanists, Bee-keepers, and Lovers of the
Country. . Conducted by Shirley Hibberd, Esq.,
F.R.H.S.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
And by Order of all Booksellers and Newsagents in
Town and Country.
JjVEMALE
MEDICAL
Vice-Patrons:
SOCIETY.
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President:
The Right Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer:
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171 Aldersgate-street, E.C
Honorary Secretary:
James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary:
Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers:
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
Midwifery and the accessory branches of medicine
offer a wide field of honourable and lucrative employ¬
ment for educated women; also a means of intellectual
culture and social-usefulness to ladies who may not be
dependent upon their own exertions. For want of
properly qualified ladies the best portion of the practice
of midwifery has drifted into the hands of gentlemen,
though female practitioners still attend the bulk of the
population. But any person may undertake the duties
of a midwife. Proper means of study have never been
provided for women, and there has never been any
public examination, by which women when well qualified
might be distinguished from those who are illiterate and
unqualified.
The Society has carried on for five years the Ladies’
Medical College, which has taught the theory and prac¬
tice of Midwifery and the accessory branches of medi-
cine. Eighty-two ladies have alreadyavailed themselves
of its advantages, and many of these ladies are settled
in practice, and succeeding admirably.
A life subscription of ten guineas, or an annual sub¬
scription of one guinea, constitutes a member of the
Society, but stamps or other small contributions will be
gladly received.
Lady subscribers of not less than one guinea are
invited to visit any Lectures in which they are likely to
be interested.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Cheques to be crossed London and County Bank.
IVTO. 1 of The Spiritualist is from be-
JUtj ginning to end a compact mass of good evidence,
that the facts of Spiritualism are true. It contains a
summary of the evidence given before the Dialectical
Society by twenty witnesses of eminence and ability; it
also gives the testimony of respectable non-Spiritualists;
therefore it is a valuable publication to place in the
hands of non-Spiritualists, and should be selected for
that purpose rather than later numbers of the same
journal, as the later numbers will run out of print first,
and should be ordered while they are still obtainable by
those who wish to preserve them for binding. A few
copies of No. 1 should be kept on hand for the benefit of.
non-Spiritualists, but laternumbers should be retained in
the possession of the early friends of the movement,
before they become scarce and unobtainable. Covers
with stringed backs, to keep copies clean till required
for binding, 3s. each.
London: E. "W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; or J.
Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, "W.C.
Contents.
The Human “Double” 33
Spirit-rapping in John "Wesley’s Family. Part IY. 33
Lecture by Mrs. Hardinge. ...  : ,34
Reports of Meetings:—Stances at the Spiritual
Library.—Crushed to Death—The consequences of
Crime—Remorse in the Spirit World—Restitution
and Repentance—The Equilibrium of the Mental
Faculties—Proper Names in Trance-Mediumship . 35
Bible Spiritualism 35
General News:—Speaking in Unknown Tongues
—Table Signals and the Alphabet—-Proper Names
and Trance-Mediumship—The Spiritual Magazine
—“ The Reality of a Spirit World Demonstrated”
—Spiritualism in the Isle of Wight—The Spirit
World  36
Leader :—The Action of Light upon Spiritual Mam-
festations ...  " 37.
A Feature of Trance-Mediumship  37
“John King”  - 37
Poetry:—The last Scene of Life ... ... ... 38
Correspondence:—Was Sarah Jacobs Starved to
Death?    ... 38
The “ Banner of Light ” Circle   ... 38
The Education of the Young   ... 38
ParaGraphs:—^Atmospherical Influences on Mani¬
festations, 36; The Anthropological Society^Gifi;
The Cure of M. Leon Favre, 38.
Printed for the Proprietor by James Beveridge, at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High
Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Ba.r and
St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E,
W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
