#li)£st fl'dnspptr ^imwhir !bil^ Spiritolism m (!5nat §nfam.
THE ,< SPIRITUALIST ” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 346, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street, CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 224.—(VOL. IX.—No. 19.) LONDON : FiilDAYj DECEMBER 8j 18f6. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Intolerant Parents...   - ... 217
A Catalonian Exorcist...  217
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Winter Meet¬
ings—Original Research versus Proselytising—Testing
■ Physical Mediums—The Discussion...  218
Mr. Blackburn's Seances '... 221
Does Death End All ?  ...  221
Aid for Mrs. Cogman...     221
Test Seances with Dr. Slade. By Robert H. Collyer, M.D. 222
Dr. Slade’s Mediumship:—Direct Writing on Slates which
Never were Out of Sight of the Observers  223
A Sitting with Dr. Slade. By J. Seaman     223
An HisiOrical Enigma in the 'Trial of Galileo before the
Inquisition. By Sedley Taylor. M.A  ... 224
Correspondence:—Mr. Williams’ Seances—The Examiner
and the Conjurers—Dr. Slade’s Manifestations through
Greek—Spiritualism in Switzerland—More Scientific
Investigators at Work—Dr. Monck —The Roman
Catholic Church—Galileo  ; 225
Cremation of the Body of a Spiritualist 226
Extracts from the Koran         227
Inspiration...’... ... ... ;..      ... 227
In Visions of the Night   228
Paragraphs:—Mr. J J. Morse at Newcastle-on-Tyne, 220;
Organisation, 226; The Slade Prosecution, 228; Mys¬
terious Stone-Throwing, 228; A Dream Verified 228
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism..
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHES IN 1869.
UTHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influeutial body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. E. Varley, C.E., F.R.S. : Mr. William
Crookes. E.K.S.. Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of tliephenomena, out has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement, qi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Snyn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden):1 the Rigid Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson. F.G.S.Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale. Owen’(former)y American Minister at the Court,
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-llolinfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal: Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr, George 0. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld: Mr. T P.
Bavkas, F.G.S. : Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain ; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
nian (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent; (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ress-Church (Florence Marryat): Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof. Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) : the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M Dunphy,
Barristcr-at-Law; 0. Carter Blake,Doc. Scl., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope TempJeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxinoore: Mr. JohnE. Pnrdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr.-St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon): Mr. James Wason: Mr. N.
Fahynn Dawe: Herr Christian Renners ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of” Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C.
Hall. E.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. E. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
hiiry; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. E. Showers; Mr. J. N. V.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, 4 dels. 17 cents per annum, which
may he paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. I-I. Harrison,
SeiiuTUAiiiST Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.
XHRKBECK BANK. — Established 1851.—
_D 29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated pel iods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on. the minimum.monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
an<\ Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The’Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniog.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application,
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
T3EVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, .W.C.
Respectfullv announce that they execute A.LL descriptions of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application,*
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda fob December, 1876.
Friday, 1st.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, ith.—Seance Committee at 7 p m.
„ Discussion Meeting at 7.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 6t/i—Soiree at 38, Great Russell Street, at
7 p.m. Music, Conversation and Refresh¬
ments. Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is.
Thursday, 7th.—Mr. Blackburn's Stance, at 7.30. Mr.
Eglinton, medium.
Friday,' 8th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.80
p.m.
Tuesday, 12th.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
, „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting, at 6 30 p.m. At the
close of the ordinary meeting of Council, a
Special Meeting will be held to consider
Resolution 653, as stated in Report of the
last Meeting.
Thursday, 14th.—Mr. Blackburn's Seance, at 7.30. p.m. Mr.
W. Eglinton, medium.
Friday, 15th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.39
p.m.
Monday, ISf/i.—House and Offices Committee, at 6.30 p.na.
„ Library Committee, at 7 p.m.
„ Discussion Meeting at 7.30 p.m.
Thursday, 7.1st.—Soiree Committee at 6.30 p.m.
„ Mr Blackburn's Seance, at 7.30 p.m. Mr.
W. Egliuton, medium.
Friday, 22nd.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Thursday, 28lh.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, at 7.30 pm. Mr.
W. Eglinton, medium,
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances are free to inquirers, who must he
recommended ty a member, or apply personally to the Secre¬
tary. Members of the Association and of Allied Societies are
admitted to the Seances by ticket, at a nominal charge, but as
there is a great demand for admission, and the numbers are
strictly limited, it is necessary to apply some time in advance.
CHRISTMAS CLOSING.
The Offices of the A>soeistion will be closed from the 23rd
to the 27th December, inclusive.
PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £20; the second of £10, for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Society."
The conditions wtre that the competition should be open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essay’s were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist and F.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom de plume of
M. A., Oxon.; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent in, the two which have been printed were
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; but
the Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publica ion, holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of the writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages. «
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. Price Is. Ijd., post free.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS..
A GENERAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
WILL BE HELD in LONDON, AT
38, GREAT RUSSELL, STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
On the 7th, 8th, and Dth of Febuary, 1877.
The following subjects are offered as suggestions for papers,
but essays on kindred subjects will also be received :—
1. The Best Tests of the Genuineness of Physical Phenomena.
2. The Scientific Aspects of Spiritualism.
8. Has Spiritualism given any New Truths to the World ?
4. The Evidences of the Identity of Communicating Spirits.
5. The Relation of the Law to Public Mediums.
6. The Aims, Ends, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
7. The Best Means cf Directing Attention to the Importance
of the Private Investigation of Spiritualism.
8. Spiritualism as a Religions Influence.
All papers to he sent to the Secretary, 38. Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, not later than January 20th, 1877; the
papers to remain the property of the Association, subject to
the conditions laid down in rule 37.
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES.
MR. T. P. BARKAS, F.G.S.,
Begs to announce that he proposes to deliver a series of SIX
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES, in the Lecture Room.
Nelson-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne. on the Thursday evenings
of each week, commencing shortly.
Doors open each evening at 7 o’clock; Chair to be taken
at 7.80.
LECTURE I.—The Worshipful the Mayor will preside.
Subject— “ The Scientific Principles involved in raising the
Vanguard, and a criticism of the methods proposed.”
LECTURE If.—Thos. Foster, Esq., Sheriff of Newcastle, will
preside. Subject—“ Pneumatics; or, the Laws and Pro¬
perties of Air and other Gases, with remarks on the Navi¬
gation of the Air,”
LEOTURE ITI.—Councillor H. W. Newton will preside.
Subject—“The Structure and Functions of the Brain and
Nervous System, comparative and human.”
LECTURE IV.—Councillor J. O. Scott will preside. Subject—
The Latest News from the Stars.’’
LECTURE V.—Councillor W. Stewart will preside. Subject—
“ Heat: its History and Philosophy.”
LECTURE VI.—alderman Gregson will preside. Subject—
“Heat: its Modern Applications.”
These Lectures will occupy about one hour each, and at the
conclusion of each Lecture, relevant questions will Le
answeted.
The Lectures will he illustrated by diagrams and models.
Terms of Admission oy Ticket, to be had of Mr. Barkas, Art
Gallery, and Mr. Blake,'49, Grainger-street. Front Seats, 2s. 6d.
the course; Unreserved Seats, Is. 6d. the course.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton. Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts aflecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly,on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 n.m. The lost Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to spee/ai seances with professional media, lectures, discus
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
formation of circles and conduct of seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, Ac , Ac., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free ; voluntary contributions. Developing circlea
held, on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and stance, 5s. 6d.; for trance only, 2s. 6d.
' E.'W.' WALLIS, Manager. ’
u
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Dec. 8, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1878.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq,, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, diaries, Parkfleld, Didsbuvy, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-S.erald, Mrs.,IP, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hlU, Balham, S.W.
Ilitc'hman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Itamsay, Mrs., 46. Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, E. D . Hose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin It., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
iVasou, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council,
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfield, AV. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Ncwcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F A.,22, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-st’^et, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-garuens, Queen’s-gatc, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall,111chmond-hlll.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, 1, Cornwall Residences, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Dodd.'J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. Hr. 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Geratd. DesmondG., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hindis, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook.C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddingtou-grove, Kennington-
■ park. SiE.
Isham, SirCliarles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs.. 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regeut's-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston. E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-cud, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
roaa, S E.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill. Upper Norwood.
Stock. St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margarefs-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark7lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park.'Blackheath. S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Annc-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds,
tvjjson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., PosteRestantc, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall. Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs,, Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
IMrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Yemon-street, Philadelphia.U.S.A.
.J. H. Giedstanes, Esq., 5,Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
.Samuel Chinnery, Esq , 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
:M. de Bassompierre, 285, Cliaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de T Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Xieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Yienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Xe Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1'Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
-J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captaiu R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W, S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary,
JT. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbign-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.VY.
.Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel. 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
:M. Cochet, Rue Tonger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
'The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—George Browne,
Esq., 63, Ncwlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
'The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton. S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
' Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexauder-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardift- Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., II. O. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid, Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solauot.
Sociedad|Espirita Central de la Republica Mexlcana President—
Senbr Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
! Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
he practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
eocial intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
f discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876, 
STRANGE YISITORS.—A scries of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government.
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeiav, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt. Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, fis.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H, Andre. Mr. II. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald,
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisllnghury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenherg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rasslm Pacha a B ahdje Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelina Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols aMaranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmield. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mine, de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elj’sees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Braining, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko. Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Letpsic, Germany.”
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
hi. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Kpes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clin ton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.R.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Yernon-street, Philadelphia,
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rpHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By tfredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :—Simbkin, Marshall & Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOYEH PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “ Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tayistock-square, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
Cl, LAMB’S ' CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MRS. OLIYE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o'clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
arc discontinued'; but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours.. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. uResideoce, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E,
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honorb,
Paris.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38r Great Russell-street, London
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for Sd.
jPOOD CHAMBERS or FURNISHED
\JT APARTMENTS to LET. Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
TTIURNISHED APARTMENTS to LET,
_fl_ consisting of pleasant Sitting Room and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. Near to
Rail and Omnibus.' C. P., 102, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI-
IO CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane. E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
T> EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the SociitA
Anonyme. 7. Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, THE TWO
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F R S., X.Y.Z., B.l.G.A.S.S.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little hook for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price fid.: post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
jonmal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
mHE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
JL W ORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owbn.
The main object of this book is tp afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, jet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the lile and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phonomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to tho establish¬
ment of tho above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should he made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. C. Burke.
f3)
ii
9
9
II
si
K
©
® p W
^co:;it ttf Jl|5 jfijujgr^ tit jltpttq n\\b uf
VoLUjviE Kijme. Number Nineteejm.
Sgl
LONDON, FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8th, 1876.
INTOLERANT PARENTS.
During the last a dead season ” the subject gf the educa¬
tion of the children of Spiritualists occupied the attention
of several of the contributors to these pages, and further
notice may now be advantageously drawn to the circum¬
stance that the word u education ” should include some¬
thing more than the book-knowledge gained at school. The
Rev. Josiah W. Postlethwaite, a learned man, versed in all
the knowledge of the schools, was a shining light of Oxford
University—
His head was sheeted
Inside with learning mystical and grand,
Which few pretended even to understand.
and this profound scholar, with his bag-wig, black silk
stockings, large shoe buckles, and tortoiseshell spectacles,
had written sixteen folio volumes on the words Do,
Dim, yet he could not understand the commonest things of
common life, when they were immediately beneath his nose,
consequently there was something defective in the education
of this most estimable man. Another Oxford man, an
advanced vivisectionist, recently came to the conclusion that
his skill in the dissection of earthworms qualified him to
eclipse the most experienced students of psychology; it was
a rash assumption, on which history will pronounce its inevi¬
table verdict in no uncertain tone. School learning and
knowledge of special subjects are of little use, unless coupled
with general experience, and a large stock of good-tempered
common sense. ,
Narrow-minded parents are usually the ruin of their
children. They keep them at home, give them false pictures
of the outside world, chain them down to their own con¬
tracted theological and social notions, and rear up queer little
old-fashioned scions, who, when the grim hand of death
sweeps their progenitors into the dark beyond, encounter for
themselves the rude blasts of that world respecting which
they have such erroneous ideas, and quickly become shorn
lambs. This unintentional cruelty to children is chiefly seen
in cases where the parents are bigots, fettered by the nar¬
rowest of creeds, or in examples where they are uneducated,
and have children with finer organisations and higher ideas
than their own. In the latter case every aspiration of the
child is crushed, every attempt to walk in new and untried
paths is pronounced madness, and the superior mind is
limited to arbitrary standards set up by the inferior. A
serious responsibility rests upon any individual who assumes
that he has the right to govern another : the noblest natures
have no desire to control anybody else, but they at the same
time refuse to permit anybody to interfere with their own
liberty. That parents should exercise some control over their
children when the latter are very young, is right and natural,
but it should soon partake more of the character of guidance
than of command, and no man should assume that he has the
right to chain down a mortal, with a different mental and
physical organisation to his own, to those conditions which
he has discovered to be best for himself. A hen cackles
wildly when her brood of young ducks takes to the water,
yet the littl e ones are better there; the good creature
pn the bank does not realise that they have a different
nature to her own, that they require other surroundings.
This, of course, is an extreme illustration, but the same prin¬
ciples would apply in degree to a brood of chickens so
organised as to require somewhat different food and sur¬
roundings to the mother hen. Among human beings, the
more ignorant a person is, the more intolerant is he, and the
more convinced that what is good for himself must be good
for everybody else, the result being that children are ruined
for life. More freedom is required. One person cannot learn
to the fullest extent from the experiences of another, where¬
fore it is sometimes better that young people should make
|! mistakes for themselves, and pay the penalty, instead of
! being so fenced and guarded as to be deprived of the power
i of independent thought and action altogether; in the latter
(| case they will always be the servants of others in the land
! of their birth, negative creatures, intellectual dwarfs, desti-
) | tute of energy and of self-reliance. Society would be happier
; j did each individual have no desire to control his neighbour,
11 but rather rejoice at seeing every living soul tasting more of
i the pure air of liberty.
Si } LI:.;.
A CATALONIAN EXORCIST.
The Times Barcelona correspondent recently wrote:—
“I will briefly describe what has just happened in this
11 wealthy city. About the 14th or 15th of this present month
| i of October it was privately announced, chiefly to the faithful
I women of the congregation which regularly throngs the
| Church of the Holy Spirit, in the street of San Francisco,
Ij that a young woman seventeen or eighteen years of age, of
| the lower class, having long been afflicted with a ‘ hatred of
| holy things ’—the poor girl probably was subject to epileptic
| fits, and cried out and became convulsed when she heard
! the notes of the organ in church—the senior priest of the
| church above mentioned would cure her of her disease, or,
| to use that gentleman’s own language, 1 Avaunt physicians
(! and mountebanks; see how the Church will cure this poor
| girl, who is at present possessed with 400 devils.’
. “Those who are acquainted with Barcelona know well
j the Calle San Francisco, one of the well-to-do streets of the
i city, and its church, Espiritu Santo—not a poor man’s, but a
) i fashionable church. For eight days, the last day being
11 the 17th inst., a little stream of persons of all ranks, and of
! either sex, might have been seen at the unusual hour (for
| church-going) of 12 a.m. threading its way towards the
: church. The principal door was kept closely shut, but the
i faithful or credulous, the open scoffer, and the lover of
> | signs and wonders found admittance by a side door to the
i exhibition which I am about to describe. The church was
i dark, but a sickly light was shed by wax lights on the sable
>| forms of some 80 or 100 persons who clustered round the
I i presbiterio, or sanctuary, in front of the altar. Within the
| little enclosure or sanctuary, separated from the crowd by
j a light railing, lay, on a common bench, with a little pillow
11 for her head to recline upon, a poorly-clad girl, probably of
) | the peasant or artisan class ; her brother or husband stood
H at her feet to restrain her (at times) frantic kicking by
i holding her legs. The door of the vestry opened; the
; exhibitor—I mean the priest—came in. The poor girl, not
j without just reason, (had an aversion to holy things,’ or,
j at least, the 400 devils within her distorted body had such
|: an aversion; and in the confusion of the moment, thinking
I that the father was ‘ a holy thing,’ she doubled up her
[! legs, screamed out with twitching mouth, her breast
! heaving, her whole body writhing, and threw herself
i nearly off the bench. The male attendant seized her legs,
the women supported her head, and swept out her di¬
ll shovelled hair. The priest advanced and, mingling
11 familiarly with the shuddering and horror-struck crowd,
11 said, pointing at the suffering child, now sobbing and
; twitching on the bench, ‘Promise me, my children, that
j you will be prudent (prudentes'), and of a truth, sons and
I daughters mine, you shall see marvels.’ The promise was
| given! The exhibitor went to procure stole and short sur-
)l plice (estola y roquete), and returned in a moment taking
i his stand at the side of the ‘ possessed with, the devils,’ with
| his face towards the group of students. The order of the
j i day’s proceedings was (1) a lecture to the bystanders, and (2)
i i the operation of exorcising the devils. The priest commenced
ill his running commentary on, or explanation of, the strange
218
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Due. 8, 1876.
phenomenon lying panting, foaming at the mouth, to the
gaze of the stupid and shuddering crowd of her fellow men
and women. The priest began by lamenting with tears that
* It is, unhappily, the fashion of the people in this day and
age to seek the aid of doctors, sleepwalkers or spiritualists,
and quacks of all description ’—the words he used were
medico, somnambulas y curanderos—‘ when they have hard
at hand the aid of religion, and an aid and remedy secure and
all sufficient.’ He continued his address by saying that
the means of which he should make use in the present case
were not the strongest in his power, for to use the strongest
was not now allowed. He then said ‘ Ihis joven—i.e., young
girl—enjoys a most perfect tranquillity and calmness so long
as she does not catch a sight of holy things, such as the holy
water, the priest’s dress, the altar, the church, or hear the
sound of a bell, the roll of an organ’s notes resounding through
the aisle. You know,’ continued the priest, ‘ that so great
is this girl’s aversion to holy things, myself included, that
she goes into convulsions, kicks, screams, and distorts her
body the moment she arrives at the corner of this street, and
her convulsive struggles reach their climax when she enters
the sacred house of the Most High.’ He ended with the
following words:—* This girl has often had the same in¬
firmity in bygone years, and the devils have been constantly
expelled; but, owing to the laxity of religion in these latter
days, they return again to possess her body.’ Act the first
finished. Act the second, the exorcism commenced.
Turning to the prostrate, shuddering, most unhappy object
of his attack, the priest commenced, * In the name of God,
of the saints, of the blessed Host, of every holy sacrament of
our Church, I adjure thee, Bushel, come out of her.’ (N.B.
‘ Bushel ’ is the name of a devil, the devil having 257 names
in Catalonia.) Thus adjured, the girl threw herself in an
agony of convulsion, till her distorted face, foam bespattered
lips, and writhing limbs grew well nigh stiff, at full length
upon the floor, and in language semi-obscene, semi-violent,
screamed out, (I don’t choose to come out, you thieves,
scamps, robbers.’ ‘ Fulfil your promise, Bushel,’ said the
priest. * You said yesterday you would cast 100 more of
your cursed spirits out of this most hapless girl’s body. Can’t
you speak ?' ‘ Yes I can,’ came from the poor girl’s foaming
lips, ‘ I can.’ 1 Yes,’ said the cura, 1 you are a devil of
honour ; you are a man of your word.’ Out of the crowd
stepped a plainly attired Spanish gentleman^ and said, ‘ But,
Father, how can you pray to and praise the devil? I have
read somewhere he is a liar and the father of lies. Does he
keep his word ? ’ ‘ Yes,’ said the priest, ‘ he is muy
formaV—i.e., a man of his word. ‘Fulfil your promise,
Bushel.’ ‘ Never,’ shouted the devil, or the girl, now lashed
into an agony of frenzy. ‘You shall,’ said the holy father;
and the suffering girl, like a bruised and wounded snake,
her dress all disarranged, her bosom heaving, wormed and
twisted into the arms of the silly women who knelt and
cried by her bench of torture. At last from the quivering
lips of the girl came the words, ‘ I will; ’ but the devil
added, with traditional perversity, ‘I will cast the hundred
out, but by the mouth of the girl.’ .The priest objected.
The. exit, he said, of a hundred devils out of the small
Spanish mouth of the woman would ‘ leave her suffocated.’
Then the maddened girl said she must undress herself, for
the devils to escape. This petition the holy father refused.
‘Then I will come out through the right foot, but first’—
the girl had on a hempen sandal, she was obviously of the
poorest class—‘ you must take off her sandal.’ The sandal
was untied; the foot gave a convulsive plunge; the devil
and his myrmidons (so the cura said, looking round
triumphantly) had gone to their own place. And, assured
of this, the wretched dupe of a girl lay quite still. The
exhibition was announced for 11 a.m. on the succeeding day,
and it commenced again. Up came a band of blue-bloused
artisans, and claimed admittance to the church. The priest
stoutly refused entrance to any but women. The men j beat
the church door ; the police came ; a scrimmage arose, and
the priest retreated in haste ; the sick girl was dragged to
her lowly home ; two mechanics now lie in Barcelona gaol
for their share in a called-for, if illegal, demonstration;
the street was cleared by the police, and the affair was over.
Next day the civil authorities of the town, men of high
feeling and great enlightenment, shocked at what they had
heard and read (for the whole affair is now in print, and
can be bought in Barcelona for a halfpenny), Stopped, by
civil decree, the whole affair. In conclusion, a few remarks
are due in justice to the authorities. First of all, the
Bishop, a man of enlightenment and erudition, was not
cognisant, I believe, of this freak on the part of the clergy of
the church in question. Secondly, the moment it came to
the ears of the civil authorities, the sharpest and promptest
means were taken to admonish the priest, and prevent a repe¬
tition of a scandal which had shamed and sickened the whole
city of Barcelona.
“The whole of the details I have given were taken down
by me from the mouth of an honourable and most truthful
Spanish gentleman, who was witness to the whole thing,
and are strictly worthy of credit to the remotest detail. I
have purposely suppressed much that was painful and
indecent.”
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
WINTER MEETINGS.
Last Monday night, at one of the ordinary fortnightly meetings of
the members ahd friends of the National Association of Spiritualists,
at 38, Great Russell-street, London, Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald,
M.S.Tel.E. presided.
ORIGINAL RESEARCH VERSUS PROSELYTISING,
The Chairman said: Before calling upon Mr. Gray to read his paper,
I will take this opportunity of briefly replying on behalf of the Experi¬
mental Research Committee, to certain criticisms on the line of action
it has adopted, which were brought forward by one of its members, Mr.
Harrison, at the last fortnightly discussion meeting, when that gentle¬
man so promptly and efficiently filled up the void occasioned by the in¬
disposition of Mr. Gray.
In the first place, I may state that the committee, whilst fully con¬
scious that the need for the exercise of a large amount of patience, and
some forbearance, is not confined to themselves, is inclined to welcome
all intelligent criticism, since in this may be found important matter for
discussion. If there were no expressed differences of opinion amongst
us, these meetings would lose their interest, and, indeed, would have no
raison d'etre.
The main question raised by Mr. Harrison, as to whether one of the
objects of the committee, viz., the production, under absolute test con¬
ditions, of phenomena which may readily be repeated, is worth the time
and money involved in the pursuit, is a very fair subject for inquiry.
The committee is by no means confident that this question can be
answered decisively in the affirmative, at the present time. But I doubt
whether Mr. Harrison himself has perceived the full import of
this question. It really amounts to this: “ Whether any scientific
investigation of the phenomena of Spiritualism is worth the time
and money involved in the pursuit ? ’’ For it is a rule of scien¬
tific research, which admits of no exception, that we should make
sure of our facts, before we proceed to investigate conditions,
to draw conclusions, or to establish inductions. This rule is some¬
times impressed upon the youthful student by the story of several of the
original members of the Royal Society, who, at a great expenditure of
time, trouble, and ingenuity, arrived at an elaborate solution of a ques-
• tion propounded to them by Charles II, viz., “ Why a vessel of water
containing a fish weighs no more than the same vessel of water without
the fish; or why a fish in water weighs nothing ? ” On receiving their
solution, his Majesty is said to have remarked, in his usual facetious
way, that they might have saved their pains by giving a little of their
attention to the fact itself, and ascertaining that the water containing the
fish weighs exactly as much as the water and the fish separately. Now
the Experimental Research Committee of the British National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists has sometimes been termed, and is termed by Mr.
Harrison, the Scientific Research Committee; and I think that if there
be any necessity for its existence, it should endeavour to deserve this
title. For this committee to occupy its time in carefully investigat¬
ing such a question as “ The variations of temperature in the body of a
medium during the occurrence of abnormal phenomena,” without having
first satisfied themselves as to' the mediumship by actually verifying the
abnormal character of the phenomena, would be, to say the least, a most
unsatisfactory proceeding from a scientific point of view. And, before
“ sitting with a well-developed medium for the production of new phe¬
nomena such as the world has never seen,” it seems reasonable to begin
by endeavouring to obtain the very simplest phenomena under unex¬
ceptionable conditions.
The position taken up by Mr. Harrison is perhaps best stated in the
following observation, made by him at the last meeting:—“I hoped,
when the Research Committee was formed, that we had at last obtained
a working body which would utterly ignore the existence of disbelievers,
and go on quietly with its legitimate duties; instead of which, it has
given two months to work having an ulterior proselytising object, and
has not prosecuted any research tending to evolve even a fragment of
philosophy.”
In answer to this, I have to state that it appears very undesirable,
even if it were possible, that a Research Committee should ignore the
existence of all unbelievers; and, secondly, that it is impossible, even
if it were desirable, that, as at present constituted, it should do so.
The committee is not a body appointed by Spiritualists of the most
advanced and uncompromising type only; and I think it will be granted
that Spiritualists of all shades of opinion, nay, more, that the candid
and unbiassed investigator, should be represented on it. The committee
THE SPntlTTTALIST.
219
wish it to be understood by all that they do not constitute a one-sided
tribunal, but are ready in all things to follow the lead of facts. Just
before making the statement I have quoted, Mr. Harrison well observed,
“ That in everything we see continuity, a gradual passage of one thing
into another. For instance,”, he said, “ there are some organisms,
holding such intermediate positions between the animal and the vege¬
table worlds, that it is difficult to tell to which they belong.” Now, there
are also some organisms, holding such intermediate positions between
the believing and the unbelieving world, that it is difficult to tell to
which they belong, unless the word “disbeliever” be very strictly de¬
fined. The majority of Spiritualists, I think, are not inclined to take
for granted the facts they are supposed to investigate. And there are
amongst them a very considerable class who, whilst they are convinced
as to the main facts of Spiritualism, and as to the reality of their ex¬
periences in the home circle, are by no means equally convinced of the
genuineness of a large proportion of the more startling phenomena
which occur in the presence of the most powerful physical mediums.
Some of these Spiritualists are in the position of Messrs. Alsop and
Hepplestone, and although they are well aware that certain physical
phenomena may occur (since they have themselves frequently verified
them), like to satisfy themselves that they actually do occur in any
particular case; they belong, in fact, to the category of persons
described by one of Dickens’s characters as “ Those fellows who
always want to know, you know.” Now, this class of Spiritualists,
as well as the other, is represented on the Research Committee; and
my own view is that it is very desirable that they should be so repre¬
sented, that the constitution of the committee should not be entirely
one-sided. Now, those who represent what I may term the quasi-
sceptical element on the committee cannot be altogether ignored, and
can be convinced only by evidence presented to them in a scientific—that
is to say, in an accurate and logical—form. It happens that the evidence
that will satisfy them would satisfy also a large class of inquirers, and
our ulterior proselytising object, if we have one, has reference to this
fact, and is accidental rather than purposed. In this relation, however,
I have to state that the committee do not consider the endeavour to
obtain conclusive evidence for unprejudiced investigators as being wholly
foreign to their duties. If a “ Proselytising Committee ” were formed it
would probably, after a time, come to the Research Committee for its
facts, and confine itself to repeating the demonstration of them, and to
making them as widely known as possible.
The fact is, there are two sides to almost every question the Research
Committee can take up; and their “ legitimate duty,” I think, is to
“ tackle ” both. Even the question of ventilating the stance-room, of
preventing the semi-asphyxiation of the medium and of the sitters, has
its two sides ; and it may have to be considered whether the comAittee
has not been too successful in purifying the atmosphere breathed during
our seances. Now there are many sceptics, and I think also some
Spiritualists, who recall to mind a certain Irish judge, of whom it is
recorded that he never liked to consider both sides of a question. He
said that it always confused him ! Such sceptics and such Spiritualists
would not be adapted for a Research Committee. Such sceptics would
find out one case of imposture, and nothing in the world would after¬
wards convince them that any spiritual phenomena could be genuine.
Such Spiritualists would establish one genuine phenomenon, and nothing
in the world would afterwards persuade them of the necessity for
stringent or “absolute” tests. Rather than admit a case of imposture
they would ascribe the production of muslin masks or wax hands to the
playful ingenuity of the spirits themselves. Whatever may be their
shortcomings in other respects, the members of the committee can
assure you that they belong to neither of these two classes.
I will now request Mr. Gray to begin his paper, at the conclusion of
which I hope there will be a discussion on the various questions sug¬
gested.
TESTING PHYSICAL MEDIUMS.
Mr. J. W. Gray, C.E., said:—The subject for consideration and
discussion this evening, viz., the establishing of the best possible con¬
ditions for the observation and development of the physical phenomena
of Spiritualism is, I think we shall all agree, one of the greatest possible
importance to the movement, and through it to science, religion, or the
realisation of and love for the true and the beautiful, and to human
progress generally.
As most of you here are aware, the conditions under which the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism are observed (when any special
conditions are applied), are, by common custom, alluded to and spoken
of as “ test ” conditions. I think unwisely so. The expression as
usually used and understood implies doubt of the honesty of the medium,
or of the manifesting agency, or both, and an endeavour to check the
fraud. It tnay not be, and doubtless is not always, the case that this
feeling is the one or even main incentive to the imposing of special
conditions, but it would be unwise to shut our eyes to the fact that
mostly it is so—that it is widely developed. And I think not without
cause, though I am far from attaching all or even the greater share of
the blame to the mediums and the manifesting agencies. Nevertheless,
as this feeling of mistrust must be removed before we can hope for the
higher of the physical phenomena, even terms tending to give it expres¬
sion, and so perpetuate it. should be avoided. The relations between
us and our mediums should be of a far loftier nature than one of mutual
distrust, as is so often the case. Our mediums are the links between
the physical and the spiritual worlds; they bring the proofs of our
immortality—that most treasured of good tidings; they are the mes¬
sengers between us and the loved ones in our individual worlds, awaiting
us in the land of harmony, and should be recognised as such; they
should be sacred to our highest solicitude.
I feel that the whole question of our relations with our mediums
should be earnestly and carefully reviewed, and possibly we should then
come to the conclusion that they must be established on an entirely
different footing to what they have been hitherto. The question pre¬
sents itself for consideration under several heads, among the principal
of which may be mentioned the social condition of mediums, their
general treatment, and the conditions for the observance and develop¬
ment of phenomena at seances. We should remember that mediums are
all, more or less, sensitives; and yet we leave them to fight the battle of
life on their individual resources, as though they were the strongest and
most phlegmatic amongst us. Whilst this is the case, we may expect
them to be constantly brought under such conditions as to be influenced,
more or less, by adverse, uncongenial, and untruthful psychological and
mesmeric influence, and, therefore, must not be surprised at whatever
may be the result. Again, if any medium happens at any time to give
signs of better manifestations than usual, he or she is immediately be¬
sieged with overwhelming calls to exercise that power, and there being
no organisation to regulate and prevent such a state of things, the end
speedily comes in the medium being exhausted, and too frequently in
an attempt to simulate genuine phenomena, the direct or assisting
cause being, I believe, frequently the strong desire on the part of the
sitters producing the very condition on the sensitive organisation of the
medium which leads to the attempted deception.
Any consideration and discussion relative to the establishing of the
best conditions for the observation and development of physical phe¬
nomena must take cognisance of these and many other defects in the
present relations between observers and mediums, and endeavour to
suggest a remedy for them. To my mind, public mediums should be
supported by organisations, who would make their own terms with in¬
vestigators, and so relieve the minds of the mediums from the worry and
anxiety of the attendant arrangements. Again, I think much attention
should be paid by Spiritualists in general to the development of more
mediums. It has been said, on good authority, that in almost every
household may be found one or more good subjects for mediumistic
development. Yet our mediums are conspicuously few in number. I
see no reason why a medium should not be developed in almost every
household, and if this were done, not only would the great pressure be
removed from our public mediums, but in the increased number of
mediums we should undoubtedly have variety of phenomena and ex¬
periences, and find in it one of our chief safeguards.
I come now to that head of the subject more especially intended for
consideration and discussion this evening, viz., the conditions to be
observed at seances for physical phenomena. There are two sides to
this question, and I consider it quite as important that the sitters should
observe conditions towards the medium as that the medium should
submit to conditions for the satisfaction of the sitters. I take it, how¬
ever, that the foundation of all the conditions necessary for a good
seance is, that there should be mutual good feeling between all present,
and even more especially between sitters and medium. Great car*
should therefore be exercised in the choice of members to compose a
circle; none should he admitted, unless desiring to get at truth; none
except in the spirit of “ Come, let us reason together.” Unfortunately,
however, inharmonious and untruthful influences cannot always be
excluded, and we must therefore deal more especially with the question
of greater importance, viz., the conditions as between sitters and
medium. Whatever the nature of these, they must, to be successful,
be such as will create absolute and mutual confidence and good feeling.
The conditions imposed on the medium should be in spirit and in nature
experimental and demonstrative, precisely as any scientist pursues his
investigations, and demonstrates his results. For my own part, I see no
medium course between imposing no special conditions at all and
imposing conditions which are absolute. Seances must always take one
of these two forms. Respecting the first, there is a good deal of evidence
offered leading to the inference that if the matter of conditions be left
to the controlling agencies, they will give better tests than any that can
) i be obtained by imposing strict conditions of observation. It may be
(i true that in some instances evidence, more or less exact and conclusive,
| i is obtained in such a way, but my own experience points in the con-
trary direction. Supposing it, however, to be true, still the chance of
( \ obtaining evidence in this way must always be very uncertain. More-
): over, I think any advantage seances of this description may have had,
|! has resulted from the very imperfect and unsatisfactory nature of the
U so-called “ test” conditions usually applied. For the most part, they are
[ i such that if specially designed to jar on the sensitive organisation of the
(I medium, and destroy all harmony of feeling on his part, they could not
J | be more successful in doing so. Moreover, the moral friction is most
11 frequently ingeniously prolonged, by reason of the “ tests ” being im-
i provised after the company has assembled, and with what is by chance
j; found in the room. The whole question is discussed in the presence of
11 the medium, and the tests decided on carried out piecemeal, as sug-
! gested by the different wiseacres. It seldom happens, after all has at
| i length been done, that the sitters are quite satisfied with the tests as
(’ left for complete ; but each feels reluctant to prolong the p rocess of pre-
I paration, and, as it were, express personally a doubt as to tbe medium's
\\ honesty. Furthermore, by this excessive exercise of the inventive
[i faculties, the sitters are brought to a charmingly positive state of
|i mind, quite incompatible with the recognised conditions necessary
for a successful spiritual seance; and when in addition to this it is
remembered that those who suggest and apply the tests are usually the
most sceptical element of the company, having least knowledge of the
conditions necessary, and, in consequence of being sceptical, secretly and
even sometimes expressly feeling quite sure tha t their particular test
will prevent the manifestations, and therefore* even though uncon¬
sciously, hopeful that such will be the case, is it to be wondered at that
the result of all this bungling should be more to prevent manifestations
Ithan to develops them, or that the manifesting agencies should sometimes
propose the omission of special conditions altogether? Even when
manifestations are obtained under such conditions as above, they are
usually outside of the tests imposed, so that both become worthless in
i the interests of science.
But/though such conditions of observation as are usually employed
Dec. 8, 1876.
220 THE SPIRITUALIST* Dec. 8, 1870.
are worse than useless, I by no means advocate that blind faith should
take the place of careful observation and discrimination. On the con¬
trary, I would, in all cases of investigation, have the conditions absolute;
that is to say, they should be such as to render deception on the part of
the medium impossible. Nothing short of this will create or even allow
of mutual contidence. The investigators, not being satisfied with the
conditions, will not have full confidence in the medium; the medium,
knowing and feeling this, will not be at ease with the sitters, fearing
always sudden attempts at exposure. But once set the minds of the inves¬
tigators at rest as regards the absolute nature of the conditions imposed,
and they will await the results with a calmness of mind in every way
conducive to good results. Moreover, with absolute conditions, the
objection to dark seances vanishes, and this is most desirable, when it is
remembered that darkness is a more favourable condition for most
classes of physical manifestations than light, and, with some good
mediums, is even a necessity. Whilst thus strongly advocating test
conditions, I hold it to be of paramount importance that the medium
should be able to enter under such conditions as a matter of course, with
little or no process of preparation, and without the least appearance of
his good faith being called in question. I am fully aware that to obtain
such conditions is much more easy in theory than in practice ; no one
knows this better than the members of your Research Committee. Still,
I hold it to be by no means impossible. It is not within the
province of my paper, however, to attempt to lay down how such
conditions are to be carried out. They are only to be determined
by careful study and experiment. Doubtless your committee, to
which I have already alluded, will ere long be in a position to
invite you to the consideration of such absolute and harmonious con¬
ditions as I have attempted to give you an idea of, There is yet another
important point to be borne in mind in designing such conditions, viz.,
that experience teaches that there is much more chance of good
results at a seance when no particular phenomenon or class of manifes¬
tation is specially provided for or expected. As a rule, therefore, the
conditions should allow of almost any description of phenomena occur¬
ring. At the same time, it is very desirable to obtain at least some one
definite phenomenon under absolute conditions, and of such a nature
that it can be repeated as often as required. Your Research Committee
have, up to the present,imposed simple conditions of both these classes,
which, with your permission, I will now proceed to describe. The first
I will describe is what has become to be known as the bell test. You
have it here before you. It consists of a telegraphic relay and battery,
which we enclose in a box, the lid of which is screwed down and sealed
with various seals. What is required is that the spirits shall depress
the armature of the electro-magnet inside the closed box; when this
is done, the electrical bell will ring, and it cannot be rung by accidental
circumstances. In order that the medium may not complete the circuit
by making connections between the wires outside the box, a second
battery is connected with the relay, and a constant current from it flows
round a galvanometer, thereby producing a constant deflection. When
the armature inside the box is pressed down, it breaks this secondary
circuit, and the needle comes to zero, consequently, if the bell rings
without the said circuit being broken, evidence is furnished of trickery.
Sometimes the spirits may make the assertion that the relay inside the
box is out of order; the Committee could not very easily contradict
this while the relay is secured and sealed inside the box; consequently
we have made a third arrangement, whereby we can send a current
round the relay from the outside*—the immediate ringing of the bell,
when we do this, proves that the apparatus is not out of order. The
arrangement, you will observe, has one great advantage, namely, that
no preparation whatever is required on the part of the medium; he is
not tired, or rendered anxious before entering the cabinet, and it is not
necessary to secure him in any way by bonds.
The other test which I have to describe is designed to allow of almost
every class of physical manifestation taking place while it is applied.
It consists simply of an effectual means of confining the wrists of the
medium; instead of tying the wrists with tape or cord, we put a soft
gauntlet over each wrist, and lace each gauntlet close to the skin, just
as one would lace a pair of boots. The hands of the medium are placed
behind his back, and the two gauntlets are held within two or three
inches of each other by a short piece of tape strongly sewed to them.
This piece of tape we sometimes tie to the back rail of the chair.
These, then, are among the principal conditions which the members
of your committee have imposed; they have endeavoured to make
them absolute, believing that nothing short of that wuuld satisfy
common sense.
THU DISCUSSlOH.
Mr. Algernon Joy read a letter on the work of the Scientific Com¬
mittee, which he had contributed to the last number of The Spiritualist;
he also read the editorial note appended thereto. He thought that it
did not matter to them what the Royal Society did or thought; the
object of that committee was not the promotion of science, but of
Spiritualism.
The Chairman asked whether Mr. Joy did not mean c‘ physics’’ when
he said ‘‘ science,” for science meant the knowledge of truth, whether
in relation to the spiritual or material world.
Mr. Harrison remarked that when he used the word , science ” he
never meant “physics” in particular. Science meant “exact know¬
ledge ;” and if people said that they did not wish for science, they
simply declared themselves in favour of muddled ideas.
Mr. Francis wanted to know what conclusions the committee had
arrived at.
The Chairman replied that the time had not come for reporting
results, and that those results would first have to be furnished to the
Council; moreover, he and his colleagues did not profess to give con¬
clusions, but facts only. He might, however, say that the committee
had as yet held but few seances, during which it had not obtained the
cell test, although it had obtained a few other phenomena, more espe-
i| cially that of direct writing under good test conditions. A large amount
of real knowledge was gained by the world without scientific investiga¬
tion, and such had been the case in the previous history of Spiritualism,
j As an example of what he meant, he had never scientifically investi¬
gated the fact that he had had a grandmother, yet he was perfectly
| ' convinced upon the point (laughter) ; in like manner his wife was
| perfectly satisfied of the existence of the tax-gatherer. Among the
members of the Research Committee were some who had not satisfied
themselves as to the reality of certain phenomena; he thought that
these were entitled to have their requirements met, and that the com¬
mittee should, to some extent, have in view the object of convincing
outsiders.
Mr. Harrison remarked that the Committee of the Psychological
| v Society was composed of believers and disbelievers, and its work was
| retarded by the education of the latter, who had not had sufficient ex-
j perience. Why did not those members of the Research Committee who
| had not been fortunate enough to have had the opportunity of gaining
! the knowledge of their colleagues, join the Psychological Society, and
leave those who had had more experience to go on with original research.
He thought the bell test to be a very good one, but that no loose wires
within reach of the medium should be inside the cabinet; the box con-
B taining the apparatus should be screwed against the side of the cabinet,
and the wires should pass through the side of the cabinet to the ap-
li paratus outside. He thought that a Research Committee should not be
in the slightest degree influenced by proselytising objects. Original
research consisted in making new discoveries in the realms of nature,
unfettered by proselytising, commercial, or utilitarian conditions, just
| as Faraday made his discoveries in electricity, and left others to utilise
them. A Research Committee should have but the one object of dis¬
covering new truths of nature.
Dr. Carter Blake remarked that the members of the Research Com¬
mittee were like those animals which many present might have seen
near Trafalgar-square; there they would find the cat, the mouse, the
pigeon, the dog, and the monkey, all with their different ideas, living in
harmony together. Although the committee had not yet obtained the
bell test, a noise was once believed to be heard inside the box; the wires
inside were afterwards found to have been crushed, and even the most
sceptical believed that they had been interfered with. Still this result
had not been thought sufficiently satisfactory to be recorded. The
mediums who had sat for the committee had been frank and obliging,
and had been on good terms with all its members; they were well
treated by the committee, and no ungentlemanly traps or tricks on the
part of the committee had been attempted ; mediums need not fear any
! dishonourable acts of that kind. He did not think that a Research Com¬
mittee had anything to do with proselytising work, but ought to
advance knowledge of the subject for the satisfaction of the members of
the Association.
| Dr. Collyer believed that these test conditions defeated themselves ;
the fact of applying a test involved the presumption that they knew all
j the laws which governed the subject they were testing, whereas they
i were all at sea in relation to the philosophy of brain phenomena. His
friend, Dr. Slade, had recently given him a most convincing test, which
| could not in any way be possibly imitated by fraud; but in applying
j special tests of their own, inquirers were destroying the condition of
mind essential to success. A medium is a man in an abnormal con-
Idition, and the best manifestations come when he is conscious of the
power of producing them; blind faith has much to do with the occur¬
rences, consequently when the power is questioned the phenomena tend
to cease. All test conditions would do little good, so far as the outside
world was concerned, for those people who wanted to be convinced
must go through the ordeal of a long examination.
Mr. Tapp hoped that the Research Committee would succeed in
1 interesting the intelligences they called “ spirits ” in scientific inquiry,
1 Once get them interested, and beneficial results would follow. In his
early days of investigation he discovered that he learned more by
imposing no conditions, but by watching quietly to see what he could get;
)j at the same time, he thought it would be useful if such tests as the
11 committee had originated were to be carried out. He had been present
1 i at experiments wherein Mr. Crookes and others had obtained manifesta-
| j tions under unanswerable test conditions.
,| Mr. Harrison had been present on many occasions where manifesta-
li tions had been obtained under unanswerable tests. In the present case
11 he believed he was right in saying that the committee had only had a
j few sittings with mediums not noted for obtaining with regularity the
j particular manifestation they required. Mrs. Kane was one who
; obtained it with regularity; at all events, the keys of a locked piano
I were frequently played upon in her presence. Would she sit for the
j committee ?
Mr. Joy did not see what was the use of a Research Committee
1 except for the conversion of disbelievers.
| Shortly afterwards the proceedings closed.
Last Sunday Miss Lougbottom delivered two trance addresses at
i Horsedge, Oldham.
i Passengers representing about 8,000 dollars went over the Fitchburg
I Railroad to the Lake Pleasant camp meeting of Spiritualists last
I ’ summer.
I Mr.. J. J. Morse at Newcastle-on-Tyne.—On Sunday last Mr.
J. J. Morse delivered two inspirational lectures in the Newcastle-on-
Tyne Spiritualists’ Hall, before good audiences. The addresses were
attentively listened to throughout. Mr. J. Mould presided on both
occasions. On Sunday next, December JOth, Mr. Morse wiil deliver
I two trance addresses in the Temperance Hall, Horsedge-street, Old¬
ham—afternoon at 2.30, evening at 6. His other engagements lor, this
year are j—Manchester, December 17th; Wolverhampton, Decem-
1 ber 19th ; London, December 24th and 31st.
Dec. 8, 1876,
221
THE SPIRITUALIST.
ME. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES.
The subjoined account of a simple but satisfactory meet- j
ing I vouch for as a strictly correct statement. ;
K. Cook. |
I willingly comply with your request for a brief state- I
ment of what occurred at a seance held at the National j
Association rooms, 38, Great Russel 1-street, on Thursday, j j
Nov.' 30th, Mr. Eglinton being the medium.
The hands of the medium having been put behind him, i
the cutfs of his coat were stitched together, and also the j)
upper portions of the coat collar near the neck, the hands and H
arms being in this way perfectly secured. The medium was j
also tied to his chair and the cabinet in various ways, and |
the curtains arranged so that his feet and legs. protruded |
beyond them. Upon his knees the u fairy bells,” together j
with a book, a handbell, and paper and pencil were placed, j)
The gas was lowered, but everything was distinctly visible, j
Under these conditions the bells were rung or played, the I
book was repeatedly opened, a hand appeared a very great |
number of times, a piece of paper was torn to pieces, and j
the book was seized and violently struck half a dozen j
times on the medium’s knees. During the whole time a j
voice conversed wTith us, once to draw our attention in a i
humorous way to the fingers of the hand that we saw so j
constantly and actively engaged. I was told to go into the I
cabinet and put my hands on the medium’s shoulders. I |j
did so, the light inside being sufficient to enable me to see j
a very curious phenomenon. While my hands were upon j
the medium’s shoulders, I distinctly saw something like a j
forearm and hand, but in the shadow, pushing forward from j
the medium’s elbow onward, as if to reach the front of the j
curtain. I resisted an impulse to put my hands lower than I
the shoulders, because I wished to implicitly do as I was told, j
and I remembered the very perfect securing of the hands !
and arms. I need not go further into details; the main j
thing is to be sure that the medium was secure, and that j
whatever was done was done by some one, not ourselves, j
The evidence for this appeared to me to be perfect. I need j
only add that we never lost sight of the medium’s legs and i
feet, which never stirred, and that on being examined every j
stitch was found to be uninjured. A Clergyman.
Ill
DOES DEATH END ALL?
The Rev. Joseph Cook, of Boston, U.S.A., though still lingering in jj
the lap of old theological notions, has many bright things to say. From jj
a discourse which he delivered Nov. 13th, 1876,1 quote the following:— j
E. S. (Boston, U.S.) j<
Does death end all ? The answer to that question depends on the jj
reply to another: Is life the cause of organisation, or organisation the j(
cause of life ? On this theme I am not only willing, but anxious, to jj
think to the thirty-two points of the compass, and I ask only for the j)
authority which belongs to the axiom that every change must have an j\
adequate cause. Supporting, therefore, Huxley’s own proposition, that jj
“life is the cause of organisation, and not organisation the cause of ij
life,” I ailivm, as a large inference from this truth, that the cause must jj
exist before the effect, and that, if life may exist before organisation, it jj
may do so after it, or outside of it.
Matter in living tissues is directed, controlled, arranged so as to jj
subserve the most varied and complex purposes.
Only matter and mind exist in the universe.
Matter in living tissues must, therefore, be arfanged either by matter jj
or by mind. j)
No material properties or forces are known to be capable of producing jj
the arrangements which exist in living tissue.
In the present state of knowledge these arrangements must be referred j
to mind or life as their source.
Bioplasm exhibits peculiar actions found nowhere in not living matter, jj
It exhibits different actions in every different animal and vegetable jj
tissue.
For each class of these peculiar actions there must be a peculiar cause, j j
That cause must be either matter or mind.
It is not visible, or, from any observed facts, inferable in matter.
It must, therefore, exist in life, or an immaterial element of the jj
organisation. j j
It is plain that, before the matter which forms the tissues has entered jj
the organisation, the plan of the tissues is involved in the earliest j)
bioplasts.
There is forecast involved, therefore, in the action of the bioplasts, jj
“ Bioplasm prepares for far-off events,” says Sir Lionel Beale, over jj
and over. - i)
Forecast is not an attribute of matter, but of mind. An immaterial jj
element exists, therefore, in living organisms.
There is a great fact known to us more certainly than the existence of j j
matter—it is the unity of consciousness. I know that I exist, and that -
I am one. Herman Lotze’s supreme argument against materialism is
the unity of consciousness. I know that I am I, and not you, and I
know this to my very finger-tips. That finger is a part of my organism,
not of yours. To the last extremity of every nerve I know that I am
one. The unity of consciousness is a fact known to us by much better
evidence than the existence of matter. I am a natural realist in phi¬
losophy, if I may use a technical term ; I believe in the existence of
both matter and mind. There are two things in the universe, but I
know the existence of mind better than I know the existence of matter.
Sometimes in dreams we fall down precipices, and awake and find that
the gnarled savage rocks had no existence. But we touched them; we
felt them; we were bruised by them! Who knows but that some day
we may wake, and find that all matter is merely a dream ? Even if we
do that, it will yet remain true that I am I.
There is more support for idealism than for materialism; but there is
no sufficient support for either* If we are to reverence all, and not
merely a fraction of the list of axiomatic or self-evident truths, if we are
not to play fast and loose with the intuitions which are the eternal tests
of verity, we shall believe in the existence of both matter and mind.
Herman Lotze holds that the unity of consciousness is a fact absolutely
incontrovertible, and absolutely inexplicable, on the theory that our
bodies are woven by a complex of physical arrangements and physical
forces, having no co-ordinating presiding power over them all. 1 know
that there is a co-ordinating presiding power somewhere in, me. I
am I. I am one. Whence the sense of a unity of consciousness if we
are made up, according to Spencer’s idea, or Huxley’s, of infinitely mul¬
tiplex molecular mechanisms ? We have the idea of a presiding power,
that makes each man one individuality from top to toe. How do we
get it ? It must have a sufficient cause. To this hour no man has
explained the unity of consciousness in consistency wdth the mechanical
theory of life. (See Lotze’s greatest work, Mikrokosmus, Leipzig, 1869,
vol. i., book 3, chap. 1.)
There is not in Germany to-day, except Hackel, a single professor of
real eminence who teaches philosophical materialism. The eloquent
Michelet, the lifelong friend and disciple of Hegel, lectured at Berlin
University in the spring of 1874, in defence of the Hegelian philosophy
as a system. Out of nearly three thousand students he obtained only
nine hearers. Hemholtz, the renowned physicist of Berlin, has come
out, through physiology and mathematical physics, into metaphysics,
and his views in the latter science are pretty nearly those of Immanuel
Kant.
Wundt, the greatest of the physiologists of Heidelberg University,
which leads Germany in medical science, has made for years a profouqd
study of the interrelation of matter and mind, and he rejects materialism
as in conflict with self-evident, axiomatic truth. Herman Lotze, now
commonly regarded as the greatest philosopher of the most intellectual
of the nations, and who has left his mark on every scholar in Germany
under forty years of age, is everywhere renowned for his physiological,
as well as for his metaphysical knowledge, and as an opponent of the
mechanical theory of life. Professor Tholuck said to me repeatedly:
“ If a man is a materialist, we Germans think he is not educated.”
I look up to the highest summits of science, and I reverence properly,
I hope, all that is established by the scientific method; but when I lift
my gaze to the very uppermost pinnacles of the mount of established
truth, I find standing there, not Hackel nor Spencer, but Hemholtz, of
Berlin; and Wundt, of Heidelberg; and Hermann Lotze, of Gottigen,
physiologists as well as metaphysicians ; and they, as free investigators
of the relations between matter and mind, are all on their knees before
a living God. Am I to stand here in Boston, and be told that there is
no authority in philosophy beyond the Thames? Is the outlook of this
cultured audience, in heaven’s name, to be limited by the North Sea ?
The English w'e revere, but Professor Gray says that there is something
in their temperament that leads to materialism. England, green
England ! Sour, sad, stout skies, with azure, tender as heaven, omni¬
present, but not often visible behind the clouds. Sour, sad, stout
people, with azure, tender as heaven, and omnipresent, but not often
visible behind the vapours. Such is England, such the English. We
are to extend our field of vision to the Rhine, to the Elbe, to the Oder,
to the Ural Mountains; and when we look around the whole horizon of
culture, the truth is, that philosophical materialism to-day is a waning
cause. It is a crescent of the old moon; and in the same sky where it
lingers as a ghost, the sun is rising, with God behind it.
AID FOR MRS. COGMAN.
Mbs. Maltby, of 41, Marylebone-road, London, has received the
following additional subscriptions on behalf of the widow of the late
Mr. Cogman, and these will close the list:—
Contributions received at the rooms of the Dalston Associa¬
tion of Inquirers into Spiritualism: Jonathan Tozeland,
10s.; George Robert Tapp, 5s. ; Edwin Dottridge, 5s.;
R. Pomeroy Tredwen, 5s. ; Richard Pearce, 2s. 6d.;
Sympathy, 2s. 6d..     .£1 10 0
Mrs. Bullock         Q 14 6
Collected by Mr. Burns: Mr. David Powell, 5s.; Mr. J.
Champernowne, 2s. 6d.; Mr. J. Constable, 2s. Od.; Mr.
Everitt, 10s   X   10 0
Previously acknowledged    41 10 6
Total   £44 15 o
Mrs. Maltby announces that the list is now closed; but, considering
the many long years of good public work which Mr. and Mrs. Cogman
have done for Spiritualism in the poorest part of London, should
another subscription list be opened for Mrs. Cogman a year or two
hence, there will doubtless be a ready response.
222
THE SPIRITUALIST.
TEST SEANCES WITH DR. SLADE * |
BT ROBERT H. COLLYER, M.D. K
I will briefly narrate my experience with Mr. Henry ||
Slade, and will confine my remarks to the automatic jj
writing, leaving the various other phenomena for another j)
occasion to describe. On the 6th day of October last, at j)
7 p.m., I called at 8, Upper Bedford-place. I was shown j)
into the drawing-room, where I found Mr. Henry Slade, ,-j)
Mr. Simmons, and two young ladies. After some few jj
minutes, Mr. Slade and myself went into a small back jj
room. There were two gaslights turned on to their full jj
extent, making the room as light as gas could make it. jj
Mr. Slade took hold of my hands, and after a few moments jj
he was in if the state.” This transition was accompanied by jj
the usual nervous twitchings. He told me to clean the slate jj
which lay on the table. I did so, both with a sponge and jj
then with my handkerchief. I never let go of the said slate, jj
which he placed under the corner of the table. A small jj
piece of slate pencil was placed on the upper surface of the ij
slate. In less than ten seconds the said slate was written on, jj
and in ten seconds more eight lines of writing, filling up the jj
entire upper surface of the slate, were written. jj
As I have before stated, Mr. Slade believes that this was jj
written by his wife’s spirit. What he believes is quite jj
beside the fact of writing occurring under circumstances that jj
none of your wiseacres and tricksters could imitate. It was j
Slade’s blind faith that the writing was spiritually produced, j
that enabled his Will power to embody the thought. Having j
attended the trial at the Bow-street Police court, I heard the j
childish propositions of chemical pencils, sympathetic inks, j
and so forth. I cannot here omit to admire the dexterity of jj
Mr. George Lewis in writing, and the pure English and unex- j
ceptional smile of self-gratification when the audience jj
applauded his wondrous works. I, accordingly, to meet all such !
objections, purchased of a stationer in Holborn two white j
porcelain slates, 7 inches long, 5 broad; these I took with j
me to Slade’s rooms on Friday, Nov. 2nd, at noon. We I
retired into the same room as on the previous occasion. Mr. i
Slade sat for twenty minutes, but entirely failed, and said he j
■had no power. I was not in the least astonished, as I have j
known persons for weeks to lose all power. On the following jj
Sunday, Nov. 5, at noon, I again visited Mr. Slade. I untied j
the slates myself, broke off a piece of Cumberland lead, one- I
eighth of an inch in length, which I placed between the j
slates, and re-tied them together with the tape I had brought jj
with me. The slates were then placed on .the top of the jj
table, Mr. Slade’s fingers being in contact with the frame jj
of the upper slate, his other hand was on my own. I dis- j
tinctly heard the writing going on or being made. On jj
opening the slates these words were written :—
“We cannot write with this point of pencil.—A. W. j
Slade.” . |
I retied the slate, and the original piece of pencil. |
An ordinary slate, which I carefully cleaned, was placed j
on the top of the table; on the under surface of the slate j
I heard the writing taking place. I had my elbow on the j)
slate all the time. On turning the slate I found 49 words j
written in less than three minutes by my watch. On re- jj
turning to the drawing-room I found a gentleman who had j
brought a folding slate with him ; this was written on both jj
sides, that is, the upper and lower surface, inside the folded
part of the slate. There were 64 words. At page 94 of my jj
work, Exalted States of the Nervous System^ Renshaw, 356, jj
Strand, I use these words: “ Faith and Will.—The power of j
the will, in the ordinary normal state, is confined to the j)
immediate acts essential to the functions of life ; but it may jj
be educated (during an abnormal state) so as to be directed ij
out of or beyond the ordinary, channel, so that brain pheno- jj
mena, or abnormal states, may be induced at the will of the ij
individual. In order to arrive at perfect control of the jj
* From a pamphlet entitled Tht Slade Prosecution, byR. H. Collyer, M.D. i)
Xoadon : H. Vickers. 1876.
Dec. 8, 1876.
organs not normally under the influence of the will much
time is required.”
At page 106 I state: “ The embodiment of thought is the
cerebral representation or production of the figure thought
of. If there be sufficient nervo-vital fluid at the command
of the medium, he is enabled to project an embodiment
which will, for the time being, under the direction of the
will-power, manifest all the conditions of an independent
existence.”
• The medium must necessarily be an extremely sensitive
person—aven morbidly so. How, then, is it possible that
he can be calm and self-possessed, exercise mental concen¬
tration or will-power, if he is purposely rendered irritable ;
his sensitiveness wounded by wanton, puerile opposition ?
It cannot be expected that if the necessary conditions to
success are destroyed that successful results can follow. It
would be as unphilosophical to break your watch and then
to grumble because it ceased to keep time.
No man is a greater admirer of pure philosophy and close
inductive reasoning than myself. I also abhor with detes¬
tation and contempt those upstart parvenus in science who
imagine that by coup de main they can solve the most re¬
condite revelations of brain function. It cannot be forgotten
that the College of Physicians of London ignored both Harvey
and Jenner. It should not be forgotten that the Royal
Society of Great Britain received the report of Benjamin
Franklin’s experiments, showing the identity of lightning
with other electrical phenomena, with a shout of laughter.
Napoleon referred the subject of steam navigation to the
Academy of Science. The result was that the Academy
pronounced the idea to be “ a ridiculous notion.” When
George Stephenson first proposed railroad travelling, how
was the idea treated' by the British House of Commons ?
Did not his distinguished son, Robert Stephenson, with all
England, ridicule the French project of digging a canal at
Suez ? Still, the British nation a few years subsequently
gave four millions sterling for an interest in the same canal!
Who, fifty years since, would not have been pronounced a mad¬
man if he had had the temerity to state the practicability of
holding in a few minutes, communication with his friends in
Australia ? Cases could be multiplied showing the ignorance
of the most intellectual on matters which are beyond their
knowledge. The universe abounds in mysteries, exciting
only the barren wonder of the desponding observer, but
stimulating the philosophical to untiring and earnest research.
To contradict past experience is a certain indication of error;
to march beyond it is the truest indication of genuine dis¬
covery. If ignorance is punishable with three months’ hard
labour, who could escape having the amusing task of con¬
tinually walking upstairs.
Slade is not responsible for his want of knowledge as to
the modus operandi of the most recondite phenomena con¬
nected with cerebral function. All he knows is, that these
phenomena do not occur under certain conditions. It is not
because he verily believes that they are produced by the
spirit of his late wife, that such a belief comes within the
sphere of criminal jurisdiction. I am not responsible for
Slade’s ideas. I am thoroughly convinced he is honest in
his belief. What concerns myself is the production of these
cerebral phenomena. Of the fact that they are produced with¬
out the least attempt to trickery or fraud, is a conviction
arrived at after thirty-five years’ investigation. That many
persons with partially developed powers, have resorted to
deception I am equally convinced. I. have discovered on
many occasions false representations,but these do not militate
against the genuine phenomena. There is scarcely a subject
with which the human mind is conversant that may not ho
stimulated or imitated so closely as to deceive and betray
the unsuspecting.
I am as satisfied of the genuineness of the automatic writing
presented by Henry Slade, of the United States, as I am of
my own existence, or that the sun gives light, or is the
cause of light, or of any other physical phenomenon, uni¬
versally admitted. I do not find fault with the learned
magistrate who defined “ palmistry ” to be analogous to
these new recondite mental phenomena. Nor do I blame
Mr. Henry Slade for believing that the phenomena are
produced by his deceased wife’s spirit. I am firmly con¬
vinced that if he had not this belief the phenomena would
t)EC. 8, 18?6.
1?HE StiRlTtlALtSt.
• 253
not be produced. Blind faith is essential to the exercise of
will power.
It is the will power, during an abnormal or exalted state
of brain, which produces all these varied phenomena, no
matter how diversified or apparently complicated.
Absolute blind faith (not exercisable during the normal
state of existence) is necessary to the full development of
will power. Doubt your own capacity, and it ceases to
exist. Conviction of power is the surest road to success—
“ he who hesitates is lost.” It is really ridiculously funny
to find men of the most ordinary mental facultiesi writing
of the u Common Course of Nature.”
All the world believed the postulates advanced by Aris¬
totle, and these were defined as “ The Laws of Nature,”
until Galileo and Newton demonstrated to the con¬
trary. As to the laws of falling bodies and gravi¬
tation, for two thousand years the whole world had
spoken of the “ Common Course of Nature.” Com¬
mon enough would poor Nature be if interpreted by
such conjuring mechanicians. What is that which we
entitle a Law of Nature? Is it, as is generally conceived,
an abstract sovereign rule of Divine authority before the
beginning of the world’s existence ? Or is it only a syn¬
thetical epitome of Nature’s operations, such as human
experience and assiduity has found out, human ingenuity
has arranged ? Here, on this very topic, is an error most
prevalent, even amongst the men best versed in science.
They are too apt to confound scientific theory, conventionally
stamped, as a “law of Nature,” as an original principle,
established by the fiat of Omnipotence. The poor wretch
who has the temerity or foolish hardihood to question its
validity is denounced as a heretic to the order of Nature
herself. Roger Bacon was excommunicated [by the Pope
for such a crime, and imprisoned ten years, accused of
having dealings with the Devil. At that period (the 13th
century) professors were bound, under oath, to follow no
other guide than Aristotle. “ There is a wide difference
between the idols of the human mind and ideas of the
Divine mind.”
DR. SLADE’S MEDIUMSHIP.
DIRECT WRITING ON SLATES WHICH NEVER WERE OUT OF SIGHT OF THE
OBSERVERS.
A few days ago Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Parkfield,
Didsbury, near Manchester, came to London, and invited
two thorough disbelievers in Spiritualism, both of them
influential men of business well known in the City, to a
seance with Dr. Slade. They visited him at 8, Upper Bed-
ford-place, on Monday last week, between three and four
o’clock in the afternoon. Mr. Blackburn brought with him
a slate, purchased in Manchester; it was a folding slate,
that is to say, it had hinges at the back, and when it was
closed the two slates faced each other ; the outside case was
of wood. A private mark was put upon this slate by a
friend of Mr. Blackburn’s in Manchester, and a London
partner of the gentleman who had made that mark was one
of those who attended the seance to watch the results.
The two London gentlemen took the slate into the seance
room, and as they held it open Dr. Slade dropped a piece of
pencil upon it, about the size of a grain of wheat. They
then tied a string tightly round the slate, after which one of
them laid it upon the table, placed his elbow upon it;
writing was heard. They then took the slate into the next
room, opened it in the presence of Mr. and Miss Blackburn,
and Mr. Simmons, ami both leaves of the slate were found
to be covered with the dry dusty writing of slate pencil.
The crumb of pencil had been somewhat worn in the pro¬
duction of the writing. From first to last the slate never
went out of sight of its owners. The seance took place in
broad daylight.
Two or three words were spelt wrongly in the message, so
after it had been examined Dr. Slade washed it off, and the
pencil was placed in it again to get more writing under the
same conditions. A noise inside the slate like that of
writing was heard, and the gentlemen took the slate away
for the purpose of opening it at one of their offices. After
they had left the house, Dr. Slade passed into a trance, and
the communicating intelligence told Mr. Simmons that the
sitters had not waited long enough ; there was no writing on
the slate ; the spirits had been rolling the pencil about, try¬
ing to take hold of it. This afterwards proved to be the
case.
Next day they accordingly came again at 2.30 p.m., and
obtained writing under the same conditions as at the first
sitting. After they left the seance room, and before they
untied the slate, Mr. Blackburn had a sitting with Dr.
Slade, and asked whether there were any writing on the
slate this time. The spirits said they would write a dupli¬
cate of the message on another slate. This was done while
the slate with a crumb of pencil on it was held by Dr. Slade
flat against the under side of the table. His face was to the
light. Mr. Blackburn had previously cleaned the slate him¬
self. He took the message into the next room, the string of
the folding slate was cut, and the messages on the two slates
were found to be identical, with the exception that the one
on the folding slate contained an additional paragraph.
This account is drawn up from testimony given to us by
Mr. Blackburn, Mr. Simmons, and Dr. Slade. After the
latter had furnished his narration he was entranced by
an intelligence, who stated that at the second sitting four
spirits came in with the two sitters, and tried to prevent the
production of the writing, and the band of spirits about Dr.
Slade, chosen of late for the purpose of protecting him,
cleared the four opponents out of the way.
I 1 A SITTING WITH DR. SLADE.
jfi BY J. SEAMAN.
Hi On Friday morning last, the 1st inst., at about noon, I
m called, with my friend, Dr. Carter Blake, at- 8, Upper Bed-
j yl ford-place, and was introduced to Dr. Slade, who was quietly
m chatting with Mr. Simmons and another gentleman in the
| jl drawing-room—the room which will go down to posterity as
|j the apartment where Simmons “winked” and “pumped
! | the visitors.” I found Mr. Simmons without his “ wink,”
ij] but he certainly “pumped me,” for as he politely asked me
i (j to remove my overcoat, he ascertained from my answer that
j j I was only wearing one. But no use wa& made of this dis-
| I covery by him. Dr. Slade, who took me into the back room,
| j| did not sit with his back to the window, but full in the light.
|M He never once rested the slate (my own) on his knee, but
nl held it in such a manner that I saw quite one-third of it,
I (I and his thumb the whole of the time. His arm did not
l | move “as in the manner of writing,” and was only moved
|sj .when the slate was placed nearer to me, or on my head,
j j The tendons of his wrist were perfectly motionless, and the
j;| writing was not curved. It consisted of four distinct
H messages:—
i (i °
(a) eight words in one straight line.
Ijl {b) twelve „ three ,,
(c) three ,, one „
I I CO six „ two „
The lines for the most part extended parallel with the
|j| longer side, and right across a 12-inch framed ordinary
i jl school slate; all the messages were written on the top side
iji of the slate, which I had previously marked “top” and
ijl “ bottom” to distinguish the two surfaces. Of this I am
ijl as certain as I am of my own existence. My attention was
|j| not attempted to be directed to a supposed light on my
lj| elbow, though I confess I diverted Dr. Slade’s attention to
ijl a picture on the wall, the subject of which was familiar to
Ijl me, with a view to see if he would attempt to write or
iji do anything else when he fancied I was off my guard.
|j| We coh versed the whole time; raps were heard from many
U; parts of the room and furniture. The table was 'lifted
|j| evenly from the floor, while I held Dr. Slade’s hands with my
ijl hands, and guarded.his feet with my feet. Had he used his
| j| knees (which were plainly in sight) the table would have tilted
ijl rather than have been raised easily. A bell placed under the
iji table, out of reach, but in my sight, was rung while Dr.
| | Slade was standing up, and then rapidly lifted from the
|jl ground, moved towards my left to above the level of the table,
|ji and then violently hurled between us towards my right, and
|j| fell with a crash on the extreme right of the table, thus
|j| describing nearly a circle. I was touched on the right hip,
which was too far off to be reached by Dr. Slade’s feet
2^4 THE SPIRITUALIST. Duo. 8, 1876.
(always in view). In my sitting position at that moment,
first my right leg and then the leg of the table were, as it
were, guarding my right side from any attach from where
Dr. Slade sat. The u force” was evidently behind me on
my right. Confirmatory of 'that view1, the chair on which
I sat, and while I sat on it, was suddenly pushed from
behind towards the table and towards Dr. Slade, whose
■white and red striped socks and French pumps were
visible in their natural position. I say* pushed in pre¬
ference to pulled, because the sensation was of some one
behind my chair. I looked round to see who or what was
there. Where I sat before this; pushing was quite out
of radius for Dr. Slade’s outstretched foot to hook me
and the chair towards him. I have seen too many con¬
jurors and performed too many sleight-of-hand tricks myself
not to know when the critical moment arrives for the suc¬
cess of the trick in hand, but at this sitting I saw no
evidence of trickery of any kind. I leave to others to
explain the phenomena. I can only say that I am con¬
vinced the writing was on the top side of the slate, on which
alone Dr. Slade’s thumb (always full in view) rested : when
the writing was produced on the slate, as it rested on my
head, the knuckles of his hand were pre'ssed against my
temples, and while there no movement of Dr. Slade’s
fingers took place. Dr. Slade was sufiering in bodily health
during my visit, and expressed himself satisfied with the
results of the sitting, Not one word was said about spirits
while I remained at 8, Upper Bedford-place.
11, Soutliampton-street, Strand, London, W.C;
AN HISTOKICAL ENIGMA IN THE TRIAL OF GALILEO
BEFORE THE INQUISITION*
BY SEELEY TAYLOB, M.A.
The best informed historians who have hitherto treated of the con¬
demnation of Galileo by the Inquisition are unanimously of opinion that
the Tribunal, whatever may be thought of the wisdom of its proceedings,
had a clear legal right to punish the Italian philosopher for the course
he pursued.
The object of the present discourse is to show that fresh evidence,
brought to light within the last eight years, renders it all but certain
that the Court was technically in the wrong, and the accused entitled
to an unconditional acquittal. A rapid survey of the evidence at the
disposal of historians up to the year 1850 will serve as a convenient
introduction to a description of the sources of information opened
since that time. Galileo was born in 1564. In 1589 he was appointed
to a professorship at Pisa, which in 1592 he exchanged for a similar post
at the University of Padua. It was probably about this time that he
became a convert to the heliocentric system of astronomy, which had
been published to the world by Copernicus in his great work, De Revo-
lutionibus lOrbum Celestium, in 1543. For some years Galileo seems to
have observed a policy of reticence on the subject, and in his public lec¬
tures to have gone on teaching the old Ptolemaic system. By 1615,
however, he must have allowed his genuine convictions to appear, for in
that year the monks of the Monastery of St. Mark at Florence proceeded
t) the extreme measure of denouncing him to the Inquisition. The
result of the step was that on March 5, 1616, the Congregation of the
Index issued a decree pronouncing the heliocentric theory to be false and
contrary to Holy Scripture, and ordering the withdrawal from circula¬
tion of the work of Copernicus, until such time as certain alterations in
its text should have been decided upon by the congregation, and effected
under their orders. Their Index decree, and the list of corrections
which appeared four years after it, are of great historical importance, as
determining the attitude which astronomers who were members of the
Roman Church were required henceforth to assume towards the new
theory. A careful examination and comparison of these two documents
leaves no manner of doubt as to the extent of the restrictions which the
ecclesiastical authorities were resolved to impose. All theological argu¬
mentation on the side of the new theory was to be peremptorily silenced.
On the other hand, writers who adopted a purely scientific mode of treat¬
ment were not debarred from producing philosophical arguments which
made in favour of the revolutionary astronomical doctrine, but they
were prohibited from expressing belief in its truth, and required to couch
all their conclusions in hypothetical language.
In 1632 Galileo published his famous Dialogue on the Ptolemaic and
Coperuican Systems. This work presented, in a popular and singularly
attractive dress, the case of the new against the old astronomy. It
caused a prodigious excitement among all classes of cultivated men,
gave the most mortal offence to the school of Aristotle, and notably to
Galileo’s declared enemies, the Jesuits, and led directly to all the mis¬
fortunes and suffering which were destined to embitter the remainder of
his life. The dialogue was suddenly suspended by a peremptory order
from Rome, and, two months later, Galileo was cited to appear per¬
sonally before the Inquisition on a charge of heresy. Ill-health pre¬
vented his reaching the capital until the middle of February, 1633, and
the Court did not pronounce sentence until the latter part of June in the
same year. The prisoner was convicted on two main issues—
■ * Abstract (quoted from the proceedings of the Royal Institution) of a lecture
delivered under the presidency of SS George Busk, F.R.S., May -Sth, 1874.
(1.) That the Dialogue transgressed the limits laid down by the decree
of the Index.
il (2.) That it was a violation of a special personal injunction, con-
h taining far more stringent restrictions than those of the public decree,
: which, as the Tribunal asserted, had been formally served on Galileo
| on the 26th February, 1616, by the Commissary-General of the Floly
I Office.
/ i The first allegation was so inherently feeble, that it could not even
|j sustain a straightforward reference to the actual text of the Index
i decree; and the Court, in order to give it some apparent colour, were
|i obliged to resort to the humiliating expedient of garbling the statute
which they pretended to be enforcing. The answer to be made on
! behalf of the accused is complete and decisive. In the first place,
i Galileo, in writing his Dialogue, had most carefully adopted the attitude
|j prescribed by the Index Congregation; and, secondly, even had he not
|| done so, was completely shielded by the fact that he had submitted the
[| work in manuscript to the Papal licensing authority, and obtained the
(S regular Imprimatur before proceeding to publication.
| The second allegation was a far more serious matter. The in-
! junction (or precept, [as it was technically described) which Galileo
in was asserted to have received from the Inquisition, contained a clause
|| forbidding him to defend or teach the Copernican doctrine in any
I manner whatever, either by word of mouth or in writing. No one who
i is acquainted with the contents of the Dialogue can have any doubt
j that, though compatible with the terms/of the Index decree, they are
| utterly inconsistent with the far stricter enactments of the private
i inhibition. Everything, therefore, turns on this question: Was the
(j precept actually delivered to the accused as stated by the Tribunal?
i It is a remarkable circumstance that subsequent historians have, one
|| and.all, accepted this unsupported assertion of the Court, although
jj there lay on the surface of the final sentence a glaring contradiction
| with respect to this crucial point of the whole trial. This contradiction
(| is as follows:—In the course of a summary of the events of the case
ji with which the Sentence opens, it is stated that on February 25th, 1616,
| Cardinal Bellarmine was commissioned by the Holy Office to send for
(| Galileo, and give him a private admonition to relinquish the Copernican
II tenet. In the event of his non-acquiescence, the Commissary of the
ji Holy Office was to intervene with the formal precept already referred
i to. On the following day the precept was actually delivered by the
ji Commissary, Cardinal Bellarmine being, it is explicitly stated, present
| throughout the proceeding. Later in the Sentence, when the defence
j | set up by the accused had to be examined, an autograph certificate
i given to Galileo by Bellarmine is cited. The Cardinal certifies that no
11 injunction exceeding in stringency the decree of the Index had, as far as
i he was aware, been laid on the accused. These statements are clearly
ji inconsistent with each other, and we here, therefore, have the Inquisi-
ji tion in 1633 contradicting a former leading member of their own body
(i on a matter of fact which they themselves assert to have occurred in
j i his immediate presence. This conflict of evidence is the “ Enigma ” in
j i Galileo’s trial referred to in the title of this Discourse,
ji No fresh light was thrown on this subject till 1850, when Marino
I Marini, Prefect of Papal Archives, published a certain number of
j extracts from the official minutes of the trial preserved in the Records
jj of the Inquisition. His work has since been superseded, and is now
j only interesting as showing that its author had recognised the enigma,
jj and thought it desirable to submit the documents which revealed it to
j a series of manipulations designed to efface all traces of the unwelcome
jj indications which, in their original form,.they contained,
j In 1867 M. Henri de VEpinois was allowed by the Roman authorities
|l to publish in extenso the greater part of the documents from which
Ii Marini has given only meagre, disjointed, and untrustworthy extracts.
These embrace the text of the minute, on the strength of which the
Inquisition asserted the delivery of the Commissary’s precept, a ver.-
j batim report of Galileo’s examinations during the trial, and a copy of
I his defence, handed in in writing to the Tribunal.
/1 In 1870 Professor Silvio Gherardi published a number of fresh
ji documents, of the existence of which nothing was previously known,
j j and which he discovered during a search in the Archives of the Inqui-
j .sition, instituted during the short suspension of the temporal power in
(j 1848 and 1849. One of these, copied by Signor Gherardi with his own
j hands from the original, has a singularly cogent bearing on the special
j j point under consideration, as will presently be seen.
I Herr Emil Wohhcill, of Hamburg, in a pamphlet published in 1870,
had the distinguished merit of, for the first time, clearly staling the
nature of the Enigma of the trial, examining the inferences to be drawn
from De I’Epinois’ new documents with respect to it, and, advancing a
theory of his own for its solution. The conclusion he has arrived at is,
that the precept of 1616 was not delivered to Galileo at all, and that the
minute asserting its delivery is o, fraudulent fabrication, perpetrated in
)f order to secure a condemnation which could not be obtained by fair
j means. It is a satisfactory circumstance that the principal document
j unearthed by Gherardi, and published after tbe appearance of
j Woblwill’s pamphlet, confirms the above conclusion in the most striking
j manner, and indeed led Gherardi, in ignorance of Wohlwill’s very
jj existence, to a view substantially identical with his.
jj The trial minute, whose genuineness Wohlwill attacks, sets out the
jj Commissary’s professed execution of the instructions issued to him by
jj his superiors, which are detailed in the preceding minute. The in-
ji structions provided that the Commissary was only to intervene in the
ji case on the occurrence of a particular contingency, viz., Galileo’s
j refusal to obey the Cardinal’s admonition; whereas, according to the
jj disputed minute, he seems to have delivered his message the moment
(i Bellarmine had ceased speaking, and, as the language used seems to
ji imply, without even pausing to ascertain whether Galileo intended to
i submit of not. This discrepancy can only be removed by assuming,
| without a tittle of direct evidence, that Galileo refused to acquiesce
■ > when admonished by the Cardinal, and so brought down upon himself
THE SPIftlTtJAtilST.
225
Deo. 8, 1876-.
the precept of the Commissary, an assumption of course quite inadmis- i (
sible, especially on so vital ah issue. On the other hand, if it can be \{
shown either that Galileo submitted to the private admonition, or that |)
the precept was not really delivered to him, the sole ground which could |(
justify a conviction is destroyed, and the reasoning of the sentence falls, K
hopelessly to pieces. Hence evidence in support of Wohlwill’s theory i)
will be equally to the point, whether it goes to prove the first or the 1(
second of these propositions. The arguments now to be produced
(which are nearly all due to the sagacity and research of Wohlwill) j)
will be conveniently grouped under a corresponding arrangement, as i (
showing
(1.) That Galileo acquiesced when admonished by Bellarmine.
(2.) That he did not receive the Commissary’s precept. K
Under the first head a certain weight is due to the fact that Galileo [j
was a devout and warmly attached member of the Roman Church, and j)
therefore very unlikely to have resisted an appeal from the most eminent |(
Cardinal in Rome, who, besides being the leading member of the holy jv
office at the time, had previously evinced a personally friendly interest
in the philosopher. This presumption is strengthened by the fact that, |(
in contemporary letters of Galileo, we find him congratulating himself K
on the docile and filial attitude towards the church authorities which he j)
had maintained throughout this whole affair. He repeats the same j(
asseverations, almost in the same words, in a letter written two years I)
after his condemnation, and dwells on them as constituting one of his it
main consolations under punishment which he was,conscious of having K
done nothing to deserve. There was at this time no hope of obtaining j)
any further mitigation of his sentence by professions of zeal for the ])
church, and no use in making them, had they not been true and genuine, i)
Passing from merely presumptive arguments, we come to the docu- I)
ment published by Gherardi to which reference has already been made. | (
It relates how, on the 3rd of March, 1616, Cardinal Bellarmine reported H
in person that Galileo, being admonished to abandon the heliocentric j)
-position, had acquiesced. Unless this document can be shown to be :(
spurious, its testimony in support of proposition (1) is conclusive.
In the second group of evidence a leading position is due to Bellar- j)
mine’s certificate, written with his. own hand and given to Galileo within |?
three months of the interview. Its gist is that nothing more than the i)
substance of the Index decree was communicated to Galileo on the j)
occasion. The interview took place after the contents of the decree had it
been decided upon by the Congregation, but before its actual publication, \)
so that the role of the Cardinal clearly was to give Galileo an early i)
intimation of what was coming, and secure his promise of adhesion. (I
The Court was evidently satisfied as to the genuineness of the certificate, j j
and, this being so, there appears to be no way of avoiding the inference j)
which follows from it negativing the delivery of the Commissary’s jj
precept.
A series of facts, derived principally from Galileo’s correspondence,
point in the same direction.
"Within a fortnight of the interview with Bellarmine, Galileo had an |)
audience of the Pope, who assured him how well he stood with himself 1
and the whole congregation of the Holy Office—an incident which could | \
scarcely have occurred had he so recently resisted the leading Cardinal i)
of their body, and, in consequence, been visited with a peremptory and i/
threatening inhibition at the hands of their Commissary-General.
In all his writings on the Copernican doctrine subsequent to the i)
decree of the Index, Galileo took especial care to conform to its require- \1
ments, and generally inserted an explicit statement of his adhesion, n
He must have been aware that this was a perfectly futile precaution, if he i)
was all the time violating more severe restrictions personally laid upon \\
himself. j)
An extremely cogent argument against the reality of the Commissary’s I)
message is supplied by the history of the negotiations which preceded I
the publication of the great Dialogue. Galileo placed in the hands of the |)
licensing authority at Rome, a work the very title of which constituted a j)
violation of the Commissary’s precept. The manuscript, after being |
subjected to minute inspection, received the final approval of the n
licensers, -whose Imprimaturs adorn the first page of the volume. Their j)
conduct is perfectly intelligible on the assumption that the Index decree |<
alone guided their scrutiny. On the opposite theory we can only account j)
for it by the extremely improbable hypothesis that the Inquisition, after j)
taking especial pains to bind Galileo over to absolute silence about the \(
Copernican system, neglected to inform the licensers of the fact, and h
thus rendered futile the precautionary measures which they had them- i
selves deemed it necessary to adopt.
The statements of Galileo during his trial are irreconcilable with the i j
delivery of the Commissary’s precept. In the interrogatory which took 0
place on April 12, the examining official, who manifestly held in his H
hand the disputed minute, endeavoured, by reading aloud isolated por- \)
tions of its text, to recall the incident it described to the memory of the i)
accused, and elicit from him an admission of its truth. These efforts it!
were fruitless. Galileo deposed that he had no recollection of a formal i)
communication having been made to him on the subject by any other )!
person than Cardinal Bellarmine. Further, in his written defence it
handed in to the tribunal, he urged that the authentic attestation which i)
lie possessed in the Cardinal’s certificate contained no vestige of an
indication that any injunction had been laid upon him additional to the itl
general decree of the Index, which concerned everyone alike.
These statements can only he set aside by hypotheses of defective1 1
memor}’, or of deliberate perjury. The former is out of the question, |i|
the cross-examination of tlie accused^alone sufficing, had we no other ii
evidence, to show that Galileo’s memory at this period was singularly j)
keen and retentive. To deny on oath facts as to which he knew from K
the lips of the presiding judge that the Court was in possession of a 1 i)
formally attested record, was a course so hopeless in itself, and so -
likely to lead to the immediate application of the torture, that it is j|
impossible to attribute it to a man of ordinary circumspection, to say :V
nothing of one possessing pre-eminent tact and sagacity.
This concludes the evidence to be now alleged in support of pro¬
position (2).
The chain of facts and arguments- above briefly set out constitutes
the case by which Wohlwill claims to have proved that a supposititious
document, fabricated for that very purpose, was the instrument which
alone rendered possible the condemnation of Galileo. It will hardly
be denied that the evidence he has collected renders it far more probable
that the story of the Commissary and the precept of 1616 is a fiction
than that it is a fact. The only chance of modifying this conclusion
lies in the production of additional evidence, and it is the main object
of this discourse to appeal to those in whose custody such evidence un¬
questionably exists no longer to withhold it. In consequence of the
disclosures spontaneously made by the Roman authorities through M.
de 1’Epinois, the Inquisition is brought under the gravest suspicion of
having, in perhaps the most celebrated and momentous case ever
brought before it, inflicted a cruel wrong on the ground of a gx*oss fraud.
Unless, therefore, they prefer the judgment of history to go by default,
the custodians of the Vatican Library will do well to publish in fac¬
simile all the Galileo documents in their possession, so as, if possible, to
bring this question to a decisive issue.
<&ortespminence.
[Ch'eal freedom is given lo correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposite
to those of this journal and its readers.-]
MR. WILLIAMS’ SEANCES.
Sir,—Mr. Williams’ seance at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, London, on
Saturday, 2nd December, was marked by a few remarkable incidents.
It is unnecessary to repeat accounts of the usual manifestations of
“ Peter,” which have already been published, and which are substan¬
tially correct. The account which Mr. Pycock gave in your last number
may be taken as giving a description of subsequent manifestations. The
lights which floated about the room were clearly identifiable with the
force which produced the delicate ladylike hands, with taper fingers and
clean cut nails, which pressed my hand at the same time as “ Peter’s ”
light was on my knee. Manifestations were on several occasions going
on in separate parts of the room, as well under as above the table. The
controls “Lightfoot” and “Patrick Doyle” gave communications
through raps, being influenced by gentlemen present at the seance.
Another control also purported to communicate. When a lady held the
closed tin match-box firmly in her hand, a stump of candle, which had
been placed in the candlestick, was found to be inside the box. This
took place at a distance from Mr. Williams, and when all hands were
joined. Though “ John King” was absent,the seance may be considered
a very good one, and satisfactory to every one present.
-—:— C. Carter Blake.
THE *■ EXAMINER ” AND THE CONJURORS.
Sir,—I send you herewith copy of a letter which I wrote last week
to the editor of the Examiner, and which has not been published in that
journal:—
“ To the Editor of the 1 Examiner.,
“Sir,—I have only lately read-your article of the 9th September, on Dr.
Slade, in which two persons give their separate account of ■' one and the same (?)
seance,’ held with him.
“ The second says, •' All the tricks of the most celebrated persons, ho they
conjurors or mediums, are known to mb, or have been fathomed by me,’ and
further on he adds, ‘I will undertake to reproduce all the manifestations I
saw on that occasion, referring to the seance with Slade..
“ As this person seems to think that there is much virtue in £1,000, I
hereby offer him that sum, under the following conditions, which must
appear simple and easy indeed to him.
“ He and I shall each appoint one member of a committee: As soon as I
know the name and address of his nominee, I will send him a cheque for
£1,000 payable to the. joint order of himself and my nominee, as trustees.
They shall cash the cheque at once, if they please, and transfer the amount to
their joint account at any bank. You, sir, if you kindly will, shall appoint a
third member of the committee ; or, if you decline to do so, the committee
itself, when otherwise complete, shall appoint an odd member. This third, or
odd member, shall be neither the author of the articles on Spiritualism which
havo lately appeared in your columns, nor any other person having a decided
hatred of Spiritualism, nor a personal friend of your ‘ expert ’ correspondent,
and shall be approved as fulfilling these conditions, and as being otherwise
suitable, by our two nominees. These two nominees shall each add not less
than one, nor more than two, members to the committee. I will furnish three
mediums, of whom Slade shall be one, if he will, and with each of whom the
committee shall hold as many seances, not exceeding six, as my nominee may
find necessary, and at which the expert shall be present. Any phenomena
that may be observed by any members of the committee, and which shall
appear to my nominee worthy of being recorded, shall be recorded by those,
members observing them, who shall each sign his own, or a joint record imme¬
diately after each seance, and shall deliver it to the third, or odd member.
The expert may hold as many more seances with the said mediums as he
chooses to pay for, but no member of the committee shall be required to attend
these extra seances unless he, or she, pleases.
“ The expert shall then give as many stances to the committee, not exceed¬
ing twice the number that shall have been required by me to be held with the
mediums, and not spread over a longer period than six months, except by
consent. If a majority of the committee decide that the expert has repro¬
duced, by conjuring or natural means, or has found any one else who can so
reproduce, a single one of the phenomena claimed to be recorded as such by
my nominee, which occurred through any of my three mediums, under the same
conditions as those under which the expert or his agent shall have reproduced
them, the trustees shall hand him the £1,000. If ho fails, he shall pay all
expenses, for which purpose he shall deposit £50 in advance with the same
trustees.
“Or, if ho satisfies a majority of the committee that he. can reproduce, by
conjuring or by natural means, 4 all,’ or any of 4 the manifestations ’ ■which
occurred at the sdance described in duplicate in your article, and that he can
$26
do this under the same conditions as those under which the originals occurred,
the committee shall equally hand him the £1,000.
“In the event of your declining to appoint a committeeman, and of the
committee not being unanimous in their election of an odd member, the
expert and I should each have an unlimited right of veto on the said election.
“ The whole of my proposal is open to modification, if desired, after the
appointment of the trustees.—Your obedient servant, (1 A. Jot.”
“ 19th Nov., 1876.”
I have strong reason to believe that the two descriptions given in the
article quoted do not refer to “ one and the same seance.'1 I may add
that the identical “ expert ” whose statement is given, has been to
another seance of Slade’s with a friend of mine, not a Spiritualist, and
confessed to him that he could no longer adhere to a word in that state¬
ment, so far as it affected Slade.
Perhaps this may account for the Examiner's not publishing my
letter. A. Joy.
69, Great Russell-street, 26th NoV., 1876.
dr. blade's manifestations through Greek.'
Sir,—Mr. Kingston’s acute observations respecting the Greek charac¬
ters written with pencil on paper in the presence of the Hon. It. Dale
Owen are very minute; but I think he has hardly taken into account
the difficulty which has existed in the transference of the inscription
from the original sheet of paper to the photograph, and thence to the
woodcut. While the woodcutter has undoubtedly done his best, per¬
fection and accuracy cannot always be obtained. Such error may easily
account for the omission of the tail of the j«, in the second line.
According to my rendering, I am unable to agree with Mr. Kingston
that in the fifth line the first letter is a %; it appears to me to be a
badly written k ; and the same may be said of the two or three kappas
in the last line, which appear to be mere scrawled kappas, without the . .
slightest resemblance to chi’s. But the central k has been certainly jjj
written correctly, and subsequently erased, when a tt has been substi !(j
tuted. The raison d'etre of this, assuming it is not an error on the part : I
of the woodcutter, is plain. S U
I must agree with my friend “ M.A., Oxon,” and not with Mr. jjj
Kingston that “the letters are slurred in formation,” and that they have 111
been written by some one who was not only familiar with the language, i (j
but was sufficiently conversant with the ends of the original clauses to jji
scrawl the termination. C. Carter Blake. i|j
[The writings have been copied all through by photography, and transferred j (|
to zinc for printing, but the blocks may have received final touches by hand, i: i
-Ed-]. , : . , !  . . • | j
SPIRITUALISM IN SWITZERLAND—MORE SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATORS AT WORK. iji
Sir,—Having just returned from Switzerland, I wish to tell you ;(!
how Spiritualists are treated there. One would suppose that do jjj
objection could be made to seven or eight persons meeting for the pur- | j.i
pose of having a seance round a table ; such persons may be the object in
of pity, but at any-rate they are doing no wrong. In France, Eng- i jj
land, and America table-turning is not forbidden, but in Saxony ijj
(Valais) it is. On the 17th of November there were nine of us jji
assembled in an hotel for a seance. Just before commencing, a gentle- j ji
man was explaining to the company the way to win £4,000 in a week ijj
at the roulette table of that town, unless he happened to lose it, when jjj
a knock was heard at the door, and upon my opening it, what did I jjj
see but twx> gendarmes, followed by a gentleman in plain clothes, who jji
entered without taking off his hat. Surprised at this unexpected j);
visit, I asked them what they wanted. Before replying they examined jjj
the room attentively, and finding nothing more suspicious than a party jjj
of ladies and gentlemen seated round a table, with two candles on it,. ijj
one of the men in uniform, with a loud voice and pompous manner, ijj
said : p You are turning tables here, and that is against law.” Here- jjj
upon he scrutinised the table, looking all under it, and asked the land- j j
lord (who had come in after them) if the table belonged to him. jjj
Upon his replying in the affirmative, he said : “ It must be taken j j
away, and not be used again for turning. I know all about that! I jjj
know how it is done !” A gentleman present objected to this intru- jjj
sion, saying : “ We are in our own poom here, and have the right to jjj
do What we choose. By what right do you enter a private apartment, jjj
and by whom are you sent ?” Ans.—“ We come on the authority of jjj
the Prelect, to whom a complaint of your proceedings has been made, j j j
for what you are doing is forbidden.” Ques.—“Who is this gentle- Ijj
man with , you ? ” Ans.—“ He is the Commissary of Police.’’ This j j
magistrate had not spoken; the gendarmes alone had spoken. Our jjj
orator continued: “This is forbidden, because it disturbs people’s jjj
minds, and causes disturbance in families ; besides, those who do these jji
things are all a parcel of idiots.- If you continue turning tables you jjj
will be condemned to three years’imprisonment, or at any rate expelled jjj
from this country.”
,We laujjhed at this menace, but we promised not to transgress any Ijj
more, and the police left us. They are afraid that table-turning would i j
be injurious to the harmony of homes, while they allow the gaming- iji
tables full liberty. To avoid trouble we were obliged to discontinue ivj
our seances. So here is a republican country, which harbours com- | I
munards. but threatens with three years’ imprisonment or expulsion ijj
honest people who have a belief. H. Huet. iji
Paris.
dr. monck. : (
Sir,—-Mr. George Tommy’s letter of the 22nd ult., in your last issue, i j
calls for some remarks. . „ . ij
1. Mr. Tommy is in error in supposing that there is any connection j j
between the Spiritualists' Defence Committee and the National As- jj
sociation, or that the latt,er have any control over the funds of the . jj
former. The Committee merely hires a room from the Association for jj
its meetings.
2. At a full meeting of the Committee, held yesterday afternoon, it
was stated by the chairman that he had received no communication
from Dr. Monck. No application from him, or on his behalf, has been
brought before the Committee.
3. I have reason to doubt that, when Dr. Monde wrote to Mr.
Enmore Jones, that gentleman shunted him off on to “the chairman
of the Association.” A. Joy.
69, Great Russell-street, 5th December, 1856.
THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH—GALILEO.
Sir,-—As my name has frequently appeared in your columns, I wish
it to be understood that I am not a Spiritualist; it being contrary to
the tenets of the Homan Catholic faith to believe in “ Spiritualism ”
commonly so called.
I must acknowledge the genuineness of some phenomena, but cannot
attribute them to the spirits of the departed.
Being told by one wiser than myself that the Church has decided
that the phenomena are produced by diabolical agency, I must abide
by that decision. In the matter of Galileo, mentioned in your last
number, as far as my memory serves me, I think you are mistaken.
That notorious speculator, as Dr. Whewell has well shown, was con¬
demned and punished for obstinate contumacy, and not for a scientific
discovery.
The Inquisition was a tribunal where strict and searching investiga¬
tion was carried out, and just punishment, when necessary, awarded.
Theresa Mary Carter Blake.
32, Great Ormond-street, Queen’s-square, W.C., Dec. 5th, 1876.
CREMATION OF THE BODY OF A SPIRITUALIST.
The following letter has been received :—
New York, November, 1876.
To W. H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Gt. Russell-street, London.
Dear Sir,— Upon the 6th December, proximo, at "Washington, Pa.,
will be cremated the body of the late Joseph Henry Louis, Baron de
Palm, Grand Cross Commander of the Sovereign Order of the Holy
Sepulchre at Jerusalem ; Knight of St. John of Malta ; Prince of the
Roman Empire ; late Chamberlain to His Majesty the King of Bavaria;
Fellow of the Theosophical Society, etc., etc., in compliance with
wishes expressed to his executors shortly belore his decease. This
ceremony you are respectfully invited, either in person or by proxy, to
attend.
The cremation will be effected in a furnace specially designed for
the purpose, and erected by F. Julius Le Moyne, M.D., as an earnest
of his preference for this mode of sepulture.
The occasion being one of interest to science, in its historical, sanitary,
and other aspects, the executors of Baron de Palm have consented
that it shall have publicity. This invitation is accordingly sent to you
in the hope that you may find it convenient to be represented, and in
case the general subject of cremation should be discussed, take part in
the debate. The Univeisity of Pennsylvania, the Washington and
Jefferson College, the New York College of Physicians and Surgeons,
other institutions of learning, and the Health Boards of Boston, Phila¬
delphia, Washington (D.C.), and other cities, have already signified
their intention to send representatives. It is believed that the occasion
will draw together a very large number of highly competent and influ¬
ential scientific observers. Addresses appropriate to the occasion will
be delivered.
Washington is a town in Washington Counly, in the State of Penn¬
sylvania, twenty-five miles west of Pittsburgh, on the Chartiers Valley
R.R., and about midway between the cities of Pittsburgh and Wheel¬
ing. Trains leave Pittsburgh and Wheeling for Washington at 9 o’clock
a.m., and at 5 o’clock p.m., every day except Sunday. The running
time is about two hours.
The audience room of the crematory being quite small, it is neces¬
sary that the number intending to be present should be known in
advance. You are therefore requested to signify your determination
by mail or telegraph to either of the undersigned at your early con¬
venience.
Henry S. Olcott, ) Executors under the last Will and
Henry J. Newton, j Testament of Baron de Palm.
Address, Box 4,335, N. Y. City.
Or, F. Julius Le Moyne, M.D. Address, Washington, Washington
Co.. Pa.
Next Wednesday, at 8.15 p.m., a lecture will be delivered at the
Institution, 20, Pimlico-road, London, on “ Alleged Supernatural
Occurrences,” including apparitions, wraiths, fetches, or doubles,
visions, preternatural phenomena, blood rain, the mirage, armies in the
sky, portents, the spectre of the Brocken, the Wesley knot-kings, and
mouern Spiritualism. A discussion will follow.
Organisation.—Wesley and Whitefield were the two great Methodist
ministers. Whitefield was a more powerful preacher than Wesley.
Wonderful revivals attended his ministry wherever he went, and tens
of thousands professed to be converted through his instrumentality.
He formed no societies, effected no organisation. The result lias been
that his followers have passed away, and live only in history. On ihe
other hand, Wesley formed societies. Commencing with Lut a few,
these he placed under leaders, then conferences were organised. The
result has been the largest body of Protestant Christians in the world.
May we not learn some useful lessons from the founder of Methodism,
who was not only a Spiritualist, but one of the best organisers ever
known 1—Spiritual Magazine,
TEE S I* 1R t T IT A £ IS T. Dec. 8, 1876,
11
jj
jjj
Dec. 8, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
227
EXTRACTS FROM THE KORAN.
The Koran is replete with maxims for the conduct of jij
life, and in these the strictest purity and broadest charity are j j
manifested. ' . Jli
u Woe be unto those who give short measure or weight, j;!
but when the measure unto them, or the weight unto them I j
defraud | Do not these think they shall be raised again, at j j
the great day, the day whereon mankind shall stand before | |
the Lord of all creation? ” j j
u Verily the righteous shall dwell among delights; seated j j
on couches they shall behold objects of pleasure; thou shalt j j
see in their faces the brightness of joy.” j(j
f The just shall have a place of delight, the wicked shall j j
surely be in hell.”
There is no want of the element of fear in the Koran. If j
it holds out a sensual paradise, its hell is sufficiently horrible j j
to satisfy the most orthodox person, and it delights in { j
menacing the unbeliever with an awful doom. [ j
“Now are the true believers happy, who humble them- hI
selves in their prayers, and who eschew all vain discourse, j j
and who are doers of alms-deeds ; who keep themselves from j(
lust . . . and who acquit themselves faithful of their |||
trust, and justly perform their covenant; and who observe jjj
their appointed times of prayer, these shall be the heirs who ! I
shall inherit paradise.” j j
“Turn aside evil with that which is better, and say, 0 jj
Lord, I fly unto Thee for refuge, against the suggestion of jjj
the devils, and I have recourse unto Thee, 0 Lord, to drive j j
them away that they be not present.” * I !
“ When death overtakes any of the unbelievers, then he ijj
saith, 0, Lord, suffer me to return to life, that I may do that j(j
which is right .... but behind them there shall be a bar jjj
until the day of resurrection.” Then “ they whose balance j j
shall be heavy with good works shall be happy; but they jjj
whose balance shall be light, are those who shall lose their jjj
souls, and shall remain in hell for ever.”
“No soul knoweth the complete satisfaction which is H
secretly prepared for them as a reward for that which they Ijj
wrought.” j(j
“Worship not the sun, neither the moon; but worship j j
God, who has created them, if you serve Him.”
“ Whoso chooseth the tillage of the life to come, unto j j
him will be given increase in his tillage; and whoso j !
chooseth the tillage of this world, we will give him the fruit I j
thereof; but he shall have no part in the life to come.”
“ Neither defame one another, nor call one another oppro- j j!
brious appellations Carefully avoid entertaining a I j
suspicion of one another, for some suspicions are a crime. jH
Inquire not too curiously into other men’s failings; neither jjj
let one of you speak ill of another in his absence.”
“ If ye lend unto God an acceptable loan, He will double j j
the same unto you.” Ijj
“ Woe unto every slanderer and backbiter; who heapeth jvj
up riches and prepareth the same for the time to come ! He 1 jj
•thinketh his riches will render him immortal. He shall jjj
* surely be cast into A1 Hotama.”
“And whatever alms ye shall give, and whatsoever vow jlj
ye shall vow, verily God knoweth it.”
“ If ye make your alms appear, it is well; but if you con- jjj
ceal them, and give them unto the poor, this will be better j<j
for you, and will atone for your sins. And what good thing jjj
ye shall give in alms shall be repaid you. They who dis- Ijj
tribute alms of their substance night and day, in private jn
and in public, shall have their reward with the Lord.”
“ Deal not unjustly with others and ye shall not be dealt j|]
with unjustly.” > Ijj
“If there be any debtor under difficulty of paying his jjj
debts, let his creditor wait until it is easy for him to do it; jvj
but if he remit it as alms, it will be better for you.”
“ Hunlan life is no more than a deceitful enjoyment.” ijj
“0 Lord, forgive us'therefore our sins, and expiate our jjj
evil deeds from us, and make us to die with the righteous.” jjj
“ Covet not that which God has bestowed on some of you ijj
preferable to others.” jvj
“ Oh, true believers, perform your contracts.”
“We will not impose a task on any soul beyond its 1)1
ability.”
“ Unto every nation hath an apostle been sent.” jji
Mohammed himself denies the authorship of the Koran
as the humble instrument through which it was delivered,
during the space of twenty-throe years. Few chapters of
its 114 were delivered entire, being revealed in detached
paragraphs, and written down by the apostle’s friends, in
such chapters as the angel dictated. The first pas¬
sage thus revealed is generally agreed to be the first five
verses of the 96th chapter, which read thus :—•
“ Read in the name of the Lord, who hath created all
things, who hath created man by the union of blood. Read
by thy most beneficent Lord, who taught the use of the
pen; who teacheth man that which he knoweth not,”
Others claim this distinction for the 74th chapter, and
connect with it this legend :—The apostle, while meditating
on Mount Kara, heard a voice calling his name. He looked
on either hand and saw no one, but gazing upward he saw
the angel Gabriel on a throne between heaven and earth ; at
which sight he became so terrified, he fled to his apartment
and concealed his face with his mantle. Then the angel
uttered the mandate, which decided his destiny and that of
his race :—
“ 0 thou covered, arise and preach and magnify thy Lord,
and cleanse thy garments; arid fly every abomination; and
be liberal in hopes to receive more in return ; and patiently
wait for thy Lord.”
His friends wrote down his utterances on parched palm-
leaves, and the shoulder blades of sheep, the only material
they then possessed; the more devout taking copies, or
committing them to memory, as was the Arab custom.
INSPIRATION.
Mr. J. Tverhan delivered the fifth of his course of lectures on the
leading teachings of Christianity, in the Victoria Theatre, Sydney, last
Sunday evening, the subject being—“Inspiration: its Nature, Extent,
and Reliability.” There was a very large and attentive audience.
Mr. Tyerman took the position that inspiration was a natural, uni¬
versal, and continuous thin'g, as opposed to the orthodox idea that it
was a miraculous gift, and confined to the writers of the Bible. He did
not believe that God ever directly inspired any one ; but he believed in
a spirit world, and from the inhabitants of that world inspiration could
and did come. He submitted that Spiritualism offered the most rea¬
sonable theory of inspiration that had ever been broached, .and the facts
of the present day seemed to fully establish it. In discussing the sub¬
ject from that point of view, it was necessary to distinguish between
clairvoyance and inspiration, and between the inspiration of genius and
that of disembodied spirits. Believing it to be a natural and universal
fact, it was admitted that some of the writers of the Bible were inspired
at times, but they mistook the source and character of their inspiration;
many of the so-called heathens were undoubtedly inspired too. Socrates
told Ion that he was inspired by the spirit of Homer; and that illus¬
trious sage believed himself to be inspired at times, and no doubt he was.
It was next shown that there. were certain classes of minds that
seemed to be particularly open to inspiration from the spiritual spheres ;
such as founders and leaders of religion, poets, orators, artists, and
musicians. Certain classes of mediums were particularly susceptible to
spiritual influences, and gave such convincing proofs of being inspired
as impartial observers could hardly resist. And who could say to what
extent even science, discovery, and invention had been indebted to the
inspiration of great minds that had passed away from earth, but were
still working for the good of its inhabitants? Many an idea pregnant
with great results had been flashed into the mind from an invisible
source. They were very likely all the subjects of more or less inspira¬
tion at some time or other; and would be to a much larger extent if
they opened their minds to receive the spiritual influx they were capable
of. The evils which flowed from false vows of inspiration were spoken
of in the last place. The Churches had made the sad mistake of
attributing inspiration direct to God, and of course claiming infallibility
for it. But it must be remembered that all inspiration came through
fallible channels, and from fallible sources; and, therefore, inspired
communications must be tested as carefully as any others. If that were
borne in mind and acted upon, there would be no danger of either the
Bible or any other book obtaining an unjust and mischievous influence
over our minds.—The Stockwhip.
A paper will shortly be read, before the National Association of
Spiritualists, by Capt. R. F. Burton, H.M. Consul at Trieste, on “ The
Analogies between Modern Spiritualism and the Old Alrican Fetish
Worship.”
American Spiritualists are moving in an endeavour to raise a fund
to send to England for Slade’s defence. Contributions can be sent
either to the Banner of Light or Spiritual Scietitist. A subscription
paper can be found at the office of the former, 9, Montgomery-place.
The amount received has reached about 1,100 dollars.
The Slade Prosecution.—Last Wednesday, at the soiree of the
National Association of Spiritualists, Mr. Alexander Calder announced,
amid loud applause, that he had received £264 from Messrs. Colby
and Rich, the first instalment of the American contributions towards
the Spiritualists’ Defence Fund. Mr. Serjeant Ballantyne has been
engaged for the defence of Dr. Slade.
228
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Dec. 8, 1876.
. IN VISIONS OF THE NIGHT.
With a loose poppy Sleep first binds my bead,
Or like a brook that o’er its pebbly bed
Sings through the summer in a leafy shade,
Anon runs full and strong in open glade
And deepens into stillness—for a while
Mutters her light enchantments with a smile ,
At my slow-drowsing senses, and within
Lets in the echoes of the past day’s din,
Threads of the tangle of its motley strife,
Some touch of truth or thought of sin,
Wherewith she weaves a flimsy web of dreams,
.Fictions and follies,
Laughter and melancholies,
And knowledge of what is confounded by what seems.
But, when her magic strengthens, fly
These trivial spectres of Sleep’s ghostly eye,
And like a swan on a broad stream and strong
My pure imaginations sail along,
Visions imperial'and untributod,
Of their own royal fancies fed,’
By lovely lights, sweet sounds, and sights accompanied.
And in my dreams strange apparitions .do I see;
Fancies quaint and shapes bizarre ;
Sometimes a face that like a star,
Sphered in the mirror of a glimmering sea,
Shines on me lovingly,
Then grins and geeks with mock and mow
Like some hair-visaged monster of a show.
It vanishes, and lo,
With music solemn, sweet and slow,
A noble march of warriors comes,
And silver pealing trumpets clang,
Shrill the pipes and boom the drums,
While sheathing her envenom’d fang,
The serpent War uprears her crest
And rolls her glittering train along,
As though her pomps for peace were dressed,
And the loud piping of that armed throng,
Were but the noisy prelude of a pastoral song.
Sometimes the vast cathedral’s arches soar,
The painted roof is far and faint,
But through the aureoles of the'Saint
The westering sunbeams stream and pour
Rainbows of pictures on tho floor.
And, hark, the softened roar
Of the prelusive organ swells and sinks,
And anthem voices, flame-like springing
Through clouds of sound, like larks in blue air winging
Above the mist to hill and valley clinging,
Stir intoslife the dead fane with their singing.
But when the airy chasm drinks
In silence up the faint but lingering cadence,
I start like, some forbidden child,
That by his silence is detected,
For, still, by dreams even in my dreams beguiled,
I’ve loitered near a ministry expected,
And the vowed service fails by my evadence.
Haste, haste ! But, ah, my haste is vain ;
Thunder the angry doors ; the surpliced train
Stream forth, and as the dusky aisles they measure.
Bend on me eyes remonstrant of most grave displeasure.
One night I saw the corpse of my dead days
Borne to its grave, and they who followed it
Were withered men and old, halting in their ways,
But they who walked before, majestic shapes, star-lit,
And crowned with stateliness and beauty,
And timed to stately music was their tread.
Now while I pondered this in much amaze,
A sudden thought shot through my head,
And in my dream unto myself I said,
This is the parable of life s defective duty,
And those who march before,
Its pure and generous ambition,
Intentions, lit by light elysian,
The hopes of good deeds done, the thoughts that soar
Even while they walk earth’s common Ways
In charities that need no praise,
In their own godly beauty dressed,
And blessing others, are themselves most blest!
Alas, the after wrong
Done by pale action to that glorious throng—
The discords made of that pure strain supernal,
The copy spoiled,
The image soiled,
Of that Ideal and Eternal
Vision that floats before the soul’s rapt ga^e—
And the poor fruit of my rich-seeded days !
Or is it, haunted by the ghosts of bad men’s dreams,
Shadows of an impersonal conscience roll
Their cloudy terrors on my troubled soul,
And all my Sleep is overshot by gleams •
Of Sin’s foul magic light,
Shapes, miscreate of ill, .
And Murder’s bands stretch’d forth to kill,
And lusts of Wrong indefinite,
Snakes in.the twilight hatcht and stinging in the Night:
Or does tho mix’d experience in mo blended
Of generations past,
Inheritances vast,
Of hoary histories since the brute was ended
(
(
(
.
(
(
(
(
(
<
(
And man unto a nobler self arose,
Rise in my dreams apart
And on my moaning heart
Transmissive touches of old sins impose,
And'cloud and curse me with the guilt of vague
ancestral vows,
But fly, abhorred phantoms, fly
Back to tho womb of evil-teeming Night,
And guilty souls affright
Who love the lusts of their mortality.
Ye have no part or lot with me,
Before whose purged and heaven-revealing eye
Upon yon crystal sea
Still gleams the glory of tho days to be,
Of lovely life in uncorruptod youth,
And the progressions of eternal good and truth.
But might once more
Sweet sleep that heavenly dream restore,
When’, as I sighed and waited at the door
While the great feast wont forward He
Whom my soul loves from far within
Sent out a message through the cheerful din,
And the Elect Glory found me there
And bade me enter in and share
The banquet’s privilege; but I,
Still dazed and heavy with a sense of sin,
Reluctant to draw nigh,
Stood fixed in pure humility.
When in an instant the mid festival grew bright
Around me with an awful light,
And when He spake I looked and Faith was lost in
sight-! S.
The American Spiritual newspapers are now united in their demands
for organisation, although divided in opinion as to what the basis or
foundation shall be.
The American comic papers think the defence in the Slade trial
proved the claims of the prosecution, namely, Dr. Slade’s means of sup¬
port were invisible.
The Shaker tells the Spiritualists that progress means “ from the
world, from the flesh,” without which there is no spirituality, and asks,
have Spiritualists arrived there ?
The Philadelphia movement, so-called, among Spiritualists, or the
National Conference of Spiritualists, is making rapid progress. It has
already three state organisations, and many local societies in other
states.
The Spirits Booh, by Allan Kardec, has just been translated into
Italian by Signor Niceforo Filalete, editor of the AmiaU Hello Spiritismo.
The same gentleman has undertaken the translation of Miss Blackwell’s
prize essay into the Italian language.
Mysterious Stone-Throwino.—The railway station at Chorley, on
the Lancashire and Yorkshire Railway, is said to be haunted. Messrs.
Wolstenholme, of Blackburn, inform us that a short time ago a man
committed suicide near Chorley station, by throwing himself below a
train. Recently showers of stones have been coming at night at dif¬
ferent parts of the engine shed, and nobody has been able to find out by
whom they are thrown. A number of the railway officials have quitted
their employment, in consequence of their belief that the effects are
supernatural. A few days ago some railway police were sent from
Manchester to try to find out by whom the stones were thrown, but
failed. A pointsman at White Bear station, the next one to Chorley,
told one of the Messrs. Wolstenholme that an engine-driver had said
that he would find out the stone throwers; he sat up till two o’clock,
when stones began to fall around him, but be could not find out who
threw them. He crept beneath his engine to get out of their way, and
a man near him was struck by a stone on the leg. An account of the
stone-throwing was printed in the Preston Guardian of Wednesday last
week under the heading.of “A Haunted Railway Station.” Mr. •
William Howitt once printed a pamphlet about stone-throwing by
spirits, giving authenticated instances which had thoroughly baffled
the police, as was the case near Belfast two or three years ago. The
information before us is too meagre to warrant the formation of any
opinion as to the cause of the stone throwing at Chorley.
A Dream Verified.—A singular instance of a dream being verified,
and a strange fatality, have recently been brought under our notice. It
will be remembered that Mrs. George Lindsay died on the 5th inst.; five
days after Mrs. Rankin, who had been attending her, and who pre¬
viously had been apparently in tbe best of health, was taken away by
the hand of death, brought on by pneumonia. By an oblituary notice,
it will be seen that her husband, Mr. Donald Rankin, has also suc¬
cumbed to the same disease, and we learn that his second son has been
laid low by it, and but faint hopes of. his recovery are entertained by
Drs. James and Sweetnan, who state they never knew pneumonia or
pleurisy spread so rapidly and fatally in one family as it had done in
this instance. But the strangest part of the fatal story has yet to be
told. After Mrs. Rankin had been so suddenly taken ill, her eldest son,
Duncan, who was working at Horsham, dreamt that something had
happened to his mother. He at once got up, and in Spite of all re¬
monstrance about the absurdity of believing in dreams, mounted his
horse, and travelled during the balance of-the night and next day, until
he came to a house a few miles out of Hamilton, where his family was
well known. Here he halted to inquire “ How the old folks were at
homo ? and, when told that his mother had died that very day, fell
fainting from his saddle. Before this,'we are.told, except so far as the
dream was concerned, he had not received tlie slightest intimation of his
mother being ill.—Hamilton Spectator, U.S..
Dec* 8, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Itussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.] .
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Eobert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting '.and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author's views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDAEY OF ANOTHER
WORbl), by Robert Bale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with-well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF' SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, E.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume's "Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. -5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt' edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U. S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Yol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, .Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown Svo.. 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M, King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 5s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev,
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supernaturalism of the Present Age ; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature: Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection: the Church and the Spirit. 12mo„
500 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
, 7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
'by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the,Mastodon ami other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book iu “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the questjon of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results aud sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and- little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a-trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “ The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
■ of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. , The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists-of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s. -
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration¬
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. ed.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about thejyorld beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid:
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-AB1LITY, i>y Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Oonant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OP MRS. CONANT. 7,s. (id.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s, Gd.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by Wilham Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by AllanKardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Gd.
SEERS OF THE AGES, bv J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE ,SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid. .
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. '2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little hook, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. Gd.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about i Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, MD., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Cd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s. .
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Yol.
AROANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, fid
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Di'eams, etc. 3s. Gd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. Gs.
‘LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. Gd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s: Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By-the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the "Family Herald.” (2 Yols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON D^VIB,
fke “ Poughkeepsie Seer." dt
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . .
The Physician. Yol, I. Gt. Harmonia
The Tcacheri „ II. „ .
The Seer. „ III, „ •
The Reformer. „ IY. . . .70
The Thinker. „ V. „ .' ,. . • .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . ' . • 7 0
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . -. 3 6
Arabula, or Divine Guest ; '. ' . . • . .76
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People .
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual .
Death and the After-Life . . . . .
History and Philosophy of Evil .
Harbinger of Health . -   . -
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse ' . . . • p
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . • 7
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Yietiiiis . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . .
Morning Lectures . . . ...
i. d
24 0
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Fanner, 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragemsut of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. fid.) 4s..
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . .
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing ■in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . .. . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . #. . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ' . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yup, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . ' .16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mytholc®y, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or. A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambuhsm, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin .of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert R. Coliyer, M.D. . . 2 0
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of-the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B. A . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions, of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . ... . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , 1 o
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzi
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich: 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs.-' Conant.
CAR-TB DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas, Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton, Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, is. I i ■
TWENTY' YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Laboura of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomao R.
Hazard. Gd.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard,
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman ot Education and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. • Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds cays of
this little pamphlet: ‘‘There is iu it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” Cd.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
bv Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. It. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALT, ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psycbometriealiy through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr R, T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Dec. 8, 1876.
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
Donations -will be thankfully received by the joint treasurers,
or by the secretary.
The Executive Committee.
Alexander Calder, 1, Hereford-
square.
SJ, Enmore Jones, Enmore-park,
Ge6E’ Wyld, M.D., 12, Great Cum-
berland-place, W.'
o. o. Massey.
W. S. Moses, M.A.
Hon. Sec.—A. Joy, 69, Great Bussell Street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
SUBSCBIPTIONS.
£ a. d.
Miss Douglas    25 0 0
Mr. G. C. Joad   25 0 0
“Nicodemus"..'  25 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder   21 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn    20 0 0
Countess Caithness   10 10 0
Mrs. Weldon-       10 10 0
Mr. Martin Smith  ;   10 10 0
„ Thomas Grant.. 1  10 10 0
Miss H   '«  10 0 0
Sir O. Igham, Bart........  10 0 0
Mr. A. Tod     10,0 0
„ J. Bulteei       10 0 0
Lady Jane Grey ’’   10 0 0
B. P. J.          10 0 0
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood  10 0 0
Mr. If. F. Dawe     10 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze     7 0 0
Prince Fmile von Wittgenstein   6 0 0
Mr. W.Tebb  :  5 5 0
„ J. Enmore Jones       5 0 0
„ C.C. Massey      5 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   5 0 0
,, Douglas Bayley  5 0 0
Oscar von Hoffman   5 0 0
Pr. George Wyld      5 0 0
Mr. T. E. Partridge      5 0 0
Mrs. Hennings.....       5 0 0
Mr. N. Kilburn, jun    5 0 0
„ A. Joy     5 0 0
Dr. S, T. Speer           5 0 0
Mr. A. T. T. Peterson    5 0 0
Mrs. H     5 0 0
Friends at Belper, per W. P. Adshead ...... 3 10 0
Mr. J. B. Stones         2 12 6
„ H. Withall   2 2 0
Captain James      2 2 0
M.A. (Oxon.)   2 2 0
Mr. C. Pearson       220
Mr. W. P. Adshead  ...-      2 2 0
Mr. F. W. Percival...........     2 2 0
Sir. J. Dixon       2 0 0
Mrs. Lowe      2 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun   ;   2 0 0
Mr. A. R. Wallace    2 0 0
,, J. C. Ferguson.......     2 0 0
“ D sople ”      2 0 0
Collected by Mr. J. Bums  12 0
Mr. Geo. Stones       1 1 o
m J- Mould    1 1 0
Dr. K. Cook  110
K. G :  I....    110
J.R.W.    110
Mrs. Maltby    11 0
Major Menars      110
Mr. J. O. Ward      110
„ E D. Rogers   110
„ More1! Theobald.. 1  110
„ William Theobald  110
„ R. M. Theobald, M.A  110
„ H. N        110
„ J. Andrd  I {.-    110
James Brown  110
The Misses Withall     110
Dr. Baikie  -.  110
Anon, per O. C. Massey     110
Mrs. J. Y. Vernon     110
Mr. T. P.Barkas...   t'.....  110
„ Tucker —    10 0
Mrs. S. Parker..  10 0
Miss Douglas Bayley     10 0
Mr. A. Smodley      10 0
„ F/Smedljey   t    10 0
F. J. T’. (collected)   10 0
Mr. Buchanan        10 0
“ u ” fClericue) 10 0
Smaller sums    3 0 6
From America.
dols.
Colby and Rich (Publishers Banner of Light),
Boston      200,00
Epei Sergem, Esq., Boston   SOPO
A. P H. (a fepirit).     25,00
Mrs. Mary M. Hardy, Boston I.... 25.00
Henry J.*Horn, N. If. City    5 00
Jellerson Cutter. Medford, Mass  3 00
G. Sweet, N. Y. City  2,00
Geo. W. Gray 1   50
I. aacGibbs. Springfield, Mass ;... 5,00
Cbae Case, Washington. D.C    Loo
D. B. A mold, Pawtucket, B. L...   f..,.. 1.00
G. Pa'ker    ’so
Harvey Howes, Noith Bennington, Vt  5.00
Jehn A. Day, Noifotk, Mass  2,00
H. E. Parsons, Ashtabula, 0  100,00
B     1,00
J. L. Donaldson, Bcston, Mass  5 00
w. a. b    8,oo
Margaret Jackson, Greensboro’, N.C  1,50
Obas. Levy, St. Louis. Mo  2,00
A. Fuller, Waltham. Mass    2,1 0
’F. L. Crane, Topeka, Kan    1,00
Emma Hardmee Briiten, Buston     10.00
L. B. Wilson, Bos on   3.00
F. A. Gould, Boston  10,00
G. Hj Woodis, Worcester  ;  2,00
E. M. Winslow, Boston     1,00
Stephea Young. Meebanicsville, la.   1.00
Wm. Benson, Albany, N.Y.     100,00
David Appleton, .Lowell, Mass   100,to
Andrew Williams, Lawrence. Mass  loo’oo
James Codman, Worcester, Mass    10000
Sarah Johnson, Woicester, Mass...........  100,00
Spiritualists’ Defence Fund continued.
dols.
Dr. Josiah Jordan, Springfield, Mass.   5,00
Mrs. Louisa Andrews, Springfield, Mass  5,00
J. L. E *   • 50
Liberal Christian   1,00
E.Crowell, M D., Brooklyn, N.Y  5 ),00
C. B. Somes, Groveland, Mass  1,00
A Poor Woman     50
P. E. Ulster.   50
M. A. Dryden, Mansfield, Mass  1,00
Jeremiah Turner, Warren, R. I;  1,85
Mrs. H. J. Severance, Tunbridge, Vt  1,00
C. M. Burrett, New Haven, Or   2,00
Geo. Stacy, Montreal, P. Q  2,00
Augustus Day, Detroit, Mich    1,00
A. Burford, East Liverpool. Ohio   2 00
D. L. Rosecrans, Hainesvllle, N. J.  1,00
M. A. Giles       2,00
O Giles...      2 00
•las. O. Banrom     60
A Friend to the Cause    2,00
W. Y., Philadelphia, Pa   25,00
Joseph We^eott, No. Castine, Me  2,00
Mrs. H. E. Beach, New York City   1,00
Geo. W. SmitD. Boston, Mass  20,00
“ Dolti.” New Jersey   1,00
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M»D,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded tie prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded’ in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Bugby. that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about ammsl
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiof ity. ’ What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Beduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, Great Marlborough Street.
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. Tikbl as a
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Price 6s.
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTOR1UM. For Organ, 4s.
JOAN OF ARC. Frpnch Vocal Score, I Os.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE. English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin¬
cipal Music, arrange 1 by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.B.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos I
and 2, price 2s. 6d. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price 5s.
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s.
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Chidiock Tidhborne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Rose. 4s.
A Series of 12 Part Songs. 6d. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
MISS THE BERNE (MRS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words bv Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
To the Cuckoo, ed.
JOHN UR1CH.—Bagatelle, words bv T. Food, 4s. Venetian
Barcarole, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Piimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid's Song. 4b. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien's
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee. 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED -CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the leather: Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhvme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie's Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6<L
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
benefit oj Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR. AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all oiher mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
I he above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable prepaiation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross.
London, S.W.; or of Mr. JOHN Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
WHICH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in /the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin • Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Biake; Mr. O. O. Massey,
harri-Jter-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.O.E.; Mr. G. 0. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr.^Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
S.ade.—2£d.. post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
WANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the hook and newspaper trade: by E. W.
Wallis, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition., This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and t> e
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses navel ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, giveii chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the snirit of Edgar A. Poe. Thty have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of bis pioduc-
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account, of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtraj ed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse arid of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office. •
In the Press.
A SHORT ESSAY,
PEACE OR WAR?—An Appeal to the
Women of Great Britain and Ireland, by A Cornish-
IVOMAN. This Essay has received the approval of the Secretary
of th« Peace and Arbitration Society; and the Authoress,
earnestly desirous of circulating it broadcast, respectfully
invites all friends of the cause to send their ordeis to her
Publishers in advance, in order that a large edition may be
printed.—Price 6d.; free by post for 6Jd.: one dozen, 4s.; for
gratnituous distribution, 100 copies half price. Messrs. Heard
aad Sons, Truro; or Messrs. Gill and Son, Penryn, Cornwall.
• Now Ready.—Fifty-seventh 2 ear.
RAPHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC &
MESSENGER for 1877. Post free Seven Stamps; or,
with Epheemis, Thirteen Stamps.
London: Catty and Dobson, 1, Ivy Lane, E.C.
Just published, a New Song.
Remembrance (embossed title), 4s. in a
fiat for contralto or baritone, and in C for soprano or
tenor. Wot ds by W. H. Parker, Sung by Miss Laura
Matthews, Miss Hellier, Mr R. Odell, and Mr. Sidney Barber.
Also the Snowdrop Mazurka and Dewdrop Redo was (second
edition), each 3s.,-by tbe tame composer. To be had of all
Music-sellers, and of the Author and Publisher, post free, at
half pi ice. Copyrights reserved. A few second-hand piano¬
fortes for sale, from £5 to £18. N. Vickery, Professor of
Music. 9, Cambridge-teriace, Bailton-road, Herne-bill, S.E.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON,
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and libiary, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annnm.
LEIGH SPIRITUALISTS’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire
€ CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
y and Spiritual Literature, 167, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for tbe loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the wbdlo of hie
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him bv the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cai'diff.
PRIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russeli-
strcet, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is. l}d.
TO PUBLISHERS’ ASSISTANTS.—Wanted,
An intelligent ASSISTANT, aged about 15, experienced
in publishing work, and quick at accounts. Apply, stating
terms, and in own handwriting, to W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbora Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents. High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bur and St. George
the Martyr. London, and published by E. W. Allen. Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
