A F(ECOF(D Of THE PROQREff Of THE 3CIEJMCE /ND ETHJC3 OF fP1F(ITUM.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 33.—(VOL. II., No. 5.) LONDON : WEDNESDAY, MAY 15, 1872. PumoS^ PriceVwpen^17
INCREASE IN THE PRICE OE “THE
SPIRITUALIST.”
We have resolved to raise the price of The
Spiritualist from threepence to fonrpence, and
the new charge will begin next month. None
of the Spiritual periodicals clear their expenses,
and some have asked for and received heavy
subscriptions, thus subjecting those which do
not ask for such aid to undue competition.
Very many of our readers recommend this step
of slightly raising the price, which will still
not raise the receipts to the level of the
i expenses.
BARON KIRKUP ON PSYCHIC FORCE.
■ THE CARRIAGE OF LETTERS BY SPIRITS.
The following letter, addressed by Baron Kirkup to
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., has been forwarded to
us for publication:—
M Florence, 6, Lung'arno Torrigicmi.
1 Piano. April Wi, 1872.
My dear Sir,—Let me thank you for your book,
^which is a perfect demonstration of a soul-force, known
to the world since the discovery of intelligent powers by
the Fox family. Your witnesses have only invented
an ambiguous and useless word to escape the danger of
an qpinion that it is objective, for fear of compromising
their popularity,' no doubt. Hence the anonymous
YA. B. and C.'D.” You had the courage to declare
your name from the first.
In the Report of the Dialectical Society,'1 page 102,
C. D, 'says it is. a force emanating from some person or
.,As.,th,e word present does not imply a distance, of
sixtyjmiles, and is meant • to' limit the question ter the
subjective view of it, I will show the inconsistency of
this opinion (for it* is only opinion after all) by. well
prov^Stfac^s.
. I have two powerM;mediijms. .. .My daughter, whose
portrait you have, with the young spirit Alessandro;
the other medium is a friend who often visits her, Miss
Paolina Carboni, of Leghorn, whose guardian spirit, is
a sister Annina,/who,'died, four years ,ago, and, who
•comes with otjiera. to us eveiy evening. , As they have
often brought me letters both from themselves and
other people, and they ^BP^rjsd; to.{Cpme«much quicker,
than the post, I wished, tp ■a^cert^ifi Aheir .speed, and I
asked, Annina if she .could take a'.letter to; another
sister, of. hers at. Leghorn, and bring me an answer.
She kindly, promised, and told me to, leave;'it ’,at,. six
o’clock,'p.m., next day, on the pianoforte,,the usual:
place in such cases. I then made a sketch’ of a letter,:
and asked Miss Paolina to copy it, that I might send it
to her sister, Teresa, who lives at Leghorn. In this
•letter she 'asks Teresa to note Wlq .exact minute of ;its:
arrival, which is always .announced, by loud 'blows bn,
the furniture, and to mention in her answer tha exact
time of sending it, and as speedily .as possible, as Annina
would wait for it. Teresa was in the letter itbld to .put;
it on her drawer^ .leaving the room with a window
open. When Paolina had finished her letter she went
away, and I shut'the door and remained alone. I folded-
the half-sheet, and,placed -it at six p.m. on the piano,
unsealed, and ‘without, an envelope. I ^watched it,
•expecting to-see it. go ; ^but ’after two;minutes, finding
that it remained, I took a book, and after two minutes,
more I looked, .and fhe note-was gone. . The door
remained shut, and no one entered the room. At eight
minutes past seven came three loud raps .on the sofa.
P went to the piano to see—nothing. I returned to the
table, and there on my book was a little triangular
note, Ijke Paqlina’s. It was a punctual answer to it,
and I called Paolina to read it. The spirit had made
two journeys of sixty miles each, besides waiting for the
writingpf the answer (fifteen lines) in the short time
of one hour and four minutes.. As I remained on pur¬
pose totally alone, there could be no trick, no smuggling
a prepared letter,, and the one we sent was written in
my presence, and finished just in time. I give you all
these details of precaution, against any possibility of
cheating. I have preserved copies of the letters, which
I can send you, and. I. know the handwriting of Teresa
perfectly.
Will Mr. Cox presume to say that all this was the
•effect of the subjective, power of Paolina’s soul-force 120
miles with such velocity ? And how does it emanate
from a person present? But all that is only his
opinion.
What, however, is of first-rate importance is your
perfect demonstration of the existence of a real force in
two admirable experiments, especially that with intelli¬
gence—for music is highly intelligent. I have heard
the accordion in Home’s hand, but it was under the
table and out of sight. It was no proof. But your
cage and in the light is conclusive..
Since writing the above Paolina has repeated the
experiment with another sister, Adele, who lives at
Bologna, a greater distance, and in less time. It was done
with all the same precautions, in one hour. I enclose
you a photograph of Paolina and Annina, both admirable
likenesses. I think that of Paolina is the best I ever
saw. I have been in almost daily communication with
spirits since 1854. My daughter is now 18; Paolina
is 19 ; the former became a medium at two years of
age—the other only about a year ago. I was at first
very incredulous and never sought the spirits. I prac¬
tised mesmerism for deafness, and they came to me
through that. I am still very suspicious, and seek only
ior facts and avoid opinions. If I have good witnesses
I escape hallucination, and I look sharp and avoid im¬
posture; with those precautions I pursue this neiv
science. My father was a friend of Priestley’s—they
were Unitarians. In their time electricity was a new
science. What numbers have sprung up since then !
You may make any use of this letter, or any part of
it you like, in my name (not anonymously) for I am
neither afraid nor ashamed of the truth, and I give you
my word of honour that I have not used any exaggera¬
tion. There,is no opinion, no party spirit, but stubborn
fact. Witnesses Paolina, Teresa and Adele, and, best
of all, Annina, good people and not dependent on clients
■of.pfiatients, or driven, f^deelajpevlike. Aj .B., tha.tJbe.ex-j
presses . opinion. Another Witness of niy dear
Annina’s exploit is her mether, wife of a former English
vice-consul at Rome. She has just come from' Leghorn
where she was present when her daughter Teresa re¬
ceived and answered the letter of Paolina. .
. s a • | Yery ifaithfully yoursj? ■
SeymoYr’ Kirkitp.
When I gave Annina’s father her/[spirit ?]xphoto¬
graph, he kissed it and shed tears. The likeness is perfect.
L knew her. well; ^ 1 ‘ ‘ ./'*
: .THE SYSTEMATIC APPEARANCE f-OF- SPIRITS
IN LONDON. -
BY. WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
. , Since the publication in The Spiritualist of January
last of the systematic way in which spirits are now
materialising their heads and faces in America, so as to
he. visible to a whole room-full of people, and to be
recognised by surviving friends, some approach has
be(en made to this important result at different spirit
icircles in London. The faces first began to appear
through Mrs. Guppy’s mediumship, at 1, Morland
Yillas, Highbury Hill Park, N.,’as already recorded in
these pages, but of late Mr. and Mrs. Guppy have been
feo, engrossed with the spirit photographs, that for a
time they discontinuedj fheir sittings for the faces.
But many seances at which, spirit faces have been seen
have been held at the- roonas of Messrs. Herne and
Williams, and in the house of Mr. Cook, one of the
leading members of the Dalstqn Association of Inquirers
into Spiritualism. In the latter . case, the manifesta¬
tions have been obtained-through a new non-professional
medium, Miss Florence Cook, a' young lady .aged six¬
teen. She will in dime be a most remarkable medium,
as the manifestations in her presence are gradually
increasing, in , strength. At the present time, under
favourable conditions, she obtains very striking mani¬
festations, as the sequel will, show. .
The spirits producing the manifestations I have to
describe are chiefly John and Katie King, and one of
their daughters—Annie. There are a great number of
spirits in England and America, calling themselves
John and Katie King, the name “ King,” I apa told,
being symbolical of “ power.’’ They are all, engaged in
the work of producing voice and physical manifesta¬
tions.; The John King at; Messrs. Herne and Williams’s
seances claims to have been anything but a; good man
during life.. He says that he>m_working offvhis sins,
chiefly.by breaking down, the materialism, of, people in
London- and ; elsewhere y apd he saysjJhat in time he
shall rise higher in spirit life,, and discontinue his
present work upon earth. His daughter Annie pro¬
duces most of the physical manifestations at Miss
Florence Cook’s seances, but this spirit Annie calls her¬
self, and prefers to be called, “ Katie King.” Some¬
times both the mother and the daughter manifest at
Miss Cook’s seances.
Perhaps the particulars I have to narrate had better
be given the form of a diary, as follows :—
Wednesday, April 10th.—A seance for spirit faces
was held at Mr. Cook’s, Miss Cook and Mr. Herne being
the mediums. In the absence of a cabinet a room was
darkened, and curtains suspended before the open door;
the mediums sat in the dark room behind the curtains,
and the spectators were in the passage outside, which
was dimly lighted, it being about dusk. Spirit hands
and arms were seen, and once or twice a spirit form,
covered with drapery as in the spirit photographs, came
out for a few seconds into the passage, but was flot very
clearly seen, because there was too little light, and-they
could not manifest with more. This; however, was
the first trial.
Saturday, April 13zA—On this evening a public
seance, to which Spiritualists only were ; admitted,
was held in the rooms of Messrs. Herne and Williams,
61, Lamb’s Conduit-street. The usual voice and other
physical manifestations were obtained, with the two
mediums sitting at opposite ends of the room ; the
observers sat round the table between them. After a
time John King began to complain, as he has several
times done of late, that the mediums had no dark
cabinet in which spirits could try to materialise them¬
selves and then appear to spectators outside in the
light. I told him “ that some of us would get up one
by subscription, but in the meantime why could he not
do what the spirits did in the presence of Miss Kate
BamqlyK.::p||ej!:ial,ise,th§m§el.yes in the dark seance
room, and 'then 'lRdmmate''tne'mselV€&''witB['Bl*-;hght--^':
■their own production ? ” John said that the u idea .ifas
not a bad one, and that he would show himself that
way some time or other.” A few minutes later little
cylinders of brightly phosphorescent light, about as
thick as a penholder, and varying from about one to
three mches inlength, began-'to rise one after the other
out of the centrq of the.tops of the-heads of the,Two,
mediums, and a fainter luminosity began to spread over
their heads. AtTast their heads were all phosphores¬
cent, and in the luminous smoke a hand was seen,
quietly drawing/the phosphorescent bars one after the
other out of the, centres of the heads, of, each medium
the hand belonged to a spirit standing behind the
medium ; a part of the arm covered with a wide loose
sleeve, was visible. Next, behind. Mr. Herne, and some
feet above him, something luminous appeared in the air;
the luminosity spread suddenly downwards, and one of
the veiled nun-like figures seen, in some of the spirit
photographs, became visible from head to waist, but not
very distinctly, and the appearance lasted only a few
seconds. The name of a spirit was then written rapidly
in large phosphorescent, letters in the air, near-Me.%
Williams. In the same rapid manner-the spirits nextr
began writing God bless —” when there, was..a
sharp snap, likq an electrical discharge, and a flash of, i
light which lit up the whole room, so that everybody'/-
and everything, in it were visible for -an •.instajit-.\: All
were sitting quietly round the table as usual .at circles, and f
nothing of a spiritual character was visible. Although
the lights were to all appearance phosphorescent, .and
usually gave off, luminous ‘ smoke, it was,.-noticed'that
after these manifestations had gone on for some time,
say ten minutes, in a small room,-With no. ventilation,
there was no, distinct smell of . phosphorus. When
this question was raised, ,1 smelt the top of Mr. Herne’s
head, which was still all luminous and smoking,- and
found the luminous matter had a very feeble phospho¬
rescent smell. I have noticed on .other occasions, that
when the spirits , at circles give luminous manifestations
by means' of what appears to be phosphorus, obtained
from the bodies of mediums, in nearly all cases if-has
little or no smell. Mr. Herne grew very nervous as
these manifestations went on.
Saturday, April 20th.—At’ the ordinary Saturday
evening public xegnee of Spiritualists, at Messrs. Heme
and Williams’s, it was resolved to sit again for spirit
faces. - John King said the mediums ought to have
a cabinet; at all events, they must get, away from- the
influence of the other members of the'circle. He.-told
them to sit at the further end of .the little, seance, room, in
a shallow window recess (only a few.ipches deep), and
to let the red curtains of the window hang over them;
34
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 15, 1872.
they accordingly did so, and the curtains bulged out
where they covered the media, as the recess was not
deep enough. A table was placed in front of them, and
the numerous observers were scattered about the other
parts of the room. The window was blocked up to
exclude light, and it overlooked a hack-yard a con¬
siderable depth below.
The gas had been put out a few minutes, and phos¬
phorescent lights began to sail out from where the
mediums sat. Presently John King shouted to me,
“ Keep your eyes open, Willie.” Some lights travelled
to within six or ten inches of my eyes, grew brighter,
and lit up the lower part of a woman’s face, with well-
formed lips and teeth, and the well-known voice of
Katie said, f Do you see me, Willie ? ” I replied, “ I see
your mouth, but I can’t see anything else.” The light
grew brighter, and then I saw the head of the spirit
Katie ; her head, all but the face, was wrapped up in a
fabric of the purest white, and the front of the face
would have been covered also, but that with one hand
above her forehead she so held up the overlapping
drapery as to reveal her face to me. It was a happy
looking face. The light came from her other hand,
which seemed to have some phosphorescent matter
rubbed over it; she moved this hand about so as to light
up the whole or parts of her face. I said, “ That looks
like very good cambric over your head. May I feel
it ? ” y. Yes, yes,” she replied, “ it is what I used to
wear in India.” I laid hold of the overlapping portion,
and felt it between my finger and thumb; it was as
material as anything could be, and felt like good cam¬
bric. Mr. Clifford Smith, who sat next to me, saw all
this. He said, “ May I feel it, too, Katie ? ” Before
she replied, he laid hold of it, and the face and every¬
thing vanished instantly. Next Katie went to the
other side of the room and showed herself to a lady and
gentleman there. Lights next sailed from the media to
Mr. Clifford Smith, and, dimly illuminated the head of
a spirit not draped in white. At first he could not see
the face well, then the lights grew brighter, and the
spirit said, “ You do recognise me Cliff, you do recognise
me.” He gave a cry, and said, “Oh, Lord God Almighty,
I never thought to see anything like this.” He then
fell upon me completely overcome with emotion, and
was several minutes before he recovered himself. The
face was that of a lady to whom he had been engaged
during her life on earth. In the course of a letter
which he has sent me about this seance he says :—
Physical manifestations, however wonderful, must in time
pall upon the taste of the most wonder-loving ; but to speak
again with, and at the same time see the face and features
of one well-beloved, can never fail to be a source of pleasure.
Katie King manifested; I saw her, and could look upon her
with pleasure, but that was the satisfaction of seeing some¬
thing wonderful. But when called by name by another, and
seeing distinctly the well-known and well-loved features, the
lips moving, and still uttering terms of endearment, none, I
know, can tell the emotions. However, it is not for me to
describe my own feelings, although one’s thoughts naturally
run into that strain on such a subject. I now say most dis¬
tinctly that at two seances at which you, sir, were present, I
saw and recognised one whom I had known in earth-life suffi¬
ciently distinctly that had I not known her, I firmly believe I
could recognise the person again. The spirit manifesting, I
believe, was seen by you, but not so distinctly, as you were
situated at an angle, whilst I was directly in front and close to
her.
These spirit faces have usually a gliding motion, and
sometimes they float away upwards in a large curve.
They are accompanied with hands which carry the
phosphorescent lights. From the faint nature of the
light, and the fact that when the spirits show them¬
selves to observers at one side of the circle, the backs of
their heads are turned to the observers on the other,
the two or three persons who are close to them, alone
get a good look at the faces. The spirits say that
before long they shall be able to become visible to all
present at once, but that they ought to have a cabinet,
as the production of the lights weakens the medium
very much.
After this seance the mediums were very much ex¬
hausted. Mr. "Williams fell down stairs from weak¬
ness, and Mr. Herne fell down twice in the parlour
below the seance room. They were led to the sofa,
where they were entranced, and saw and described
some most magnificent scenes in the spirit world. They
saw some of their deceased friends, and they begged
and pleaded—as clairvoyants similarly circumstanced
often do—that they might die, and not be forced to
return to earth again. The voice of John King
resounded through the room (which was well lighted),
and he instructed Mr. Andrews and myself what to do
to bring the mediums round again. By the aid of
mesmeric passes and wine they recovered, but the
weakness did not pass off till the middle of next day.
Mr. Herne fell down from giddiness once the next
morning.
Sunday, April 21sf.—A seance for spirit faces was
held in the twilight at Mr. Cook’s. Among the wit¬
nesses present were Mr. and Mrs. Cook and children,
Miss E. Till, Miss E. Kislingbury, of 93, Clarendon-
road, myself, and the publisher of a leading London news¬
paper. Miss Cook and Mr. Heme were the media, and
they sat in the dark room, as in the seance of April 10th,
the spectators being in the passage outside as before.
Several exclamations were made by the mediums at the
phosphorescent lights which they saw coming from each
other’s heads, and the spirit hands which they saw in
the luminous smoke. Then they saw two hands go
through an opening in the curtains, and the observers
outside saw them, the points of all the fingers being
covered with something like luminous phosphorus. At
Mr. Cook’s home seances Katie King is in the habit of
calling him “ Cookey! Cookey! ” which he does not
exactly like, as he says that it is not a respectful way
of addressing a gentleman in his own house, even
though the speaker be a disembodied spirit. Shortly
after the hands disappeared, a full length robed figure
rushed out of the room, seized him by the shoulders,
shook him vigorously all the time, saying, “ Oh, Cookey!
Cookey ! ” in the well-known voice of Katie King. If
ever a man looked frightened, it was Mr. Cook on that
occasion. Katie was covered with drapery, head and
all, so that her face was not seen ; but while this and
other manifestations were given, the mediums inside
the room joined in conversation with the spectators
outside, making their comments on what was taking
place all through the seance, so that it was clear to the
observers that they never quitted their seats. Hext
John King came out, draped all over; his voice was
strong and powerful; he shook everybody present by the
hand, and pressed several on the head and shoulders, to
show the strong muscular power in his hands and arms.
All the time no footsteps were heard. He next led or
pushed all the observers in turn to one end of the
passage, leaving the other end, which led to the stairs,
clear; he lifted up little Donald Cook, and carried him
bodily a yard or two along the passage, after which he
and Katie announced their intention of going upstairs.
Two dark shadows, with no well defined outline, were
seen by all present going very rapidly up the stairs.
A few seconds afterwards the passage was in pitch
darkness, the light being obstructed above by some
means unknown to the observers. A few attempts were
then made to show spirit faces by phosphorescent
lights, but failed, probably in consequence of the
exhaustion of Mr. Herne at the seance of the preceding
night. There was then an interval of a quarter
of an hour. Directly the mediums sat again, Miss
Cook cried out, “ There is a man here.” The door
of the room then closed with a bang. A loud snapping
noise was heard, and a brilliant light streamed through
the cracks of the door. At the same time Miss Cook
was heard screaming and running about the room.
Soon the door was opened, and she came out trembling
violently with excitement. The two mediums assert
that directly the door was closed, something like a
luminous crystal, as large as an orange, sprang from
the table into the hand of a man standing at the corner
of the table nearest the door. The man, supposed to be
John King, was tall and stout, with long beard and
dark hair, good-looking, and with a good-tempered
expression on his face. He was dressed in a robe
which looked as if made of dark blue serge, with large
sleeves. He held the crystal between the finger and
thumb of his upraised hand. It gave out a reddish
light, and lit up the whole room just as if he held a
policeman’s lantern. Miss Cook gave a scream, and
ran to one comer of the room. John King, who at
first looked grave, smiled at Miss Cook’s fright, and
turned the light full upon her in the corner of the
room to which she had retreated. She at once ran
round the table, and back again in the opposite direc¬
tion, instead of passing John King; and she cried,
“ Frank, Frank ! Come away !” Mr. Herne who had
not moved from his seat, and was half-entranced when
the figure first appeared, looked rather scared, and
exclaimed, “ Let’s get out of this, Florrie.” The light
went out, and they came out of the room more excited
than frightened.
After another interval, a dark seance for the voices was
held. A tapping was heard upon one of the window
panes, the bar of the shutter was unlocked and taken
down, and the shutter opened, and John King’s voice
said,—“ Cook, you must take that plug out of the
gutter, if you don’t want the foundations of your
house sapped. The gutter is stopped up.” On exa¬
mination this proved to be true. It had been raining,
and the area was full of water. Nobody inside the
house knew of this until told in this way.
Monday, April 22nd.—A seance was held at Mr.
Cook’s, at which Mrs. Cook, the servant, and the
children were the witnesses. In the endeavour to
abolish dark seances I have made many experiments
with different kinds of light, as narrated in back
numbers of the Spiritualist. They were all more or
less failures ; but I think that spirits can work better
with a light composed of the less refrangible rays of
the spectrum, than with a light containing actinic rays.
In the course of these experiments, I tried at Mr.
Cook’s a phosphorescent light, made by coating the
inside of a warm bottle with phosphorus dissolved in
oil of cloves, and then letting in the air. I left the oil
at his house, and good use was made of it, as will be
seen. Messrs. Herne and Williams refused to let me
try any experiments of the kind there, as they are
paid mediums. The presence of phosphoric oil would
be suggestive to strangers of tricks, and they would
prefer to be weakened to any extent, rather than have
anything of the kind in the house. The following is
an extract from a letter to me, dated April 23rd, 1872,
written by Miss Cook:—
Yesterday afternoon Katie told us that if we liked to put
up a cabinet of curtains for her, she would try to show us
something, but as I was not developed enough for her to take
enough phosphorus from me to show her face by, we were
to give her some of your phosphoric oil. I was delighted, and
at half-past eight yesterday evening all was ready. Mamma,
auntie, the children, and the servant stood on the stairs. I
was left alone (not in my glory, for I was very frightened)
inside the breakfast-room. Katie began by giving mamma
some fresh ivy leaves ; none were in our house or garden of
the size she brought. A hand and arm with a white sleeve
came to the opening holding the bottle of oil; then, at the
lower opening, in the curtain, came a face, unveiled, the
head covered with a quantity of pure white drapery. Katie
held the bottle to her face so that all outside could see her
plainly. She remained for quite two minutes. It was an
oval face, straight nose, bright eyes, and a very pretty mouth.
She again came to the opening, her lips moved, and at last
she spoke. All outside could see her lips moving; she talked
with mamma some few minutes. I could not see her face
plainly, so asked her to turn and show me. She said, “ Of
course I will,” came to my chair, and bent over me. She was
materialised only to the bust. From there she went into a
cloud, slightly luminous. She told mamma to look at her
carefully, and made the observation that “she knew she
looked most unearthly.” It was indeed very startling. I was
too frightened to move or call out when she came near me.
She used no tubes for speaking. The last time she appeared
she stayed quite five minutes, and directed mamma to send to
you asking you if you could come here one day this week. .. .
Katie King finished her seance with “ God bless you all. I am
so pleased to show myself.”
Mrs. Cook told me that on this occasion little Katie
King’s face looked white and deathlike. Her eyes were
also fixed and staring, as if made of glass.
Thursday, April 2hih. — Seance at Mr. Cook’s.
Present Mr. Cook, Mrs. Cook, children, servant, and
myself. Miss Cook took a seat in the dark room behind
the curtain, and, being nervous, sat with a part of her
dress over her head, that she might see nothing. Katie
King’s voice asked little Edith Cook, aged four years, to
bring her the bottle of phosphoric oil; she carried it to
the curtains, and a hand and arm came out and took it.
Katie was told how to use it, by shaking the oil up the
sides of the bottle, and then taking out the cork to
render it luminous by the entrance of air. The in¬
structions were carried out in sight of the witnesses, by
spirit hands and arms projecting from the drapery.
Then she showed her face, wrapped up in white, but
the light was not strong enough to permit the features
to be recognised. Besides, she told all the spectators
not to come nearer than a stair about four feet from
where she showed her face, in order that the medium
might be isolated from the influences of the other per¬
sons present. She asked me what could be done to
make the light brighter. A larger bottle was suggested,
and some warm water in which to place it to warm the
oil at the bottom of the bottle. She asked that it
might be done, and ifcld the medium to walk in the
garden for a quarter of an hour.
At the next sitting a larger bottle was provided,
standing in a pie-dish full of warm water, which was
placed on a chair in the room near the medium. A
“ scraping ” noise was heard ; Katie had some spirit
drapery in her hand, which she rubbed down over the
medium, to collect some of the “ influence ” used by
spirits in materialising themselves; she does this, in
fact, at the beginning of nearly every face seance with
Miss Cook. A conversation, in low tones, varied with
an occasional scraping noise, then took place nearly as
follows, to the amusement of the listeners outside :■—
Miss CooTi—Go away, Katie ; I don’t like to be scraped.
Katie—Don’t be stupid. Take that thing off your head and
look at me. (Scrape, scrape.)
Miss Cook—I won’t. Go away, Katie ; I don’t like you.
You frighten me.
Katie—Don’t be silly. (Scrape, scrape, scrape.)
Miss Cook—I won’t sit for these manifestations. I don’t
like them. Go away.
Katie—You are only my medium, and a medium is nothing
but a machine. (Scrape, scrape.)
Miss Cook—Well, if I am only a machine, I don’t like to be
frightened. Go away.
Katie—Don’t be stupid. Take that thing off your head,
and look at my pie-dish.
Here we heard the bottle rattling in the pie-dish,
and at this point feminine curiosity got the better of
fear; Miss Cook made her first observation, and said
she saw Katie floating and holding the dish up. Her
head and shoulders were materialised, but below that
her form melted into thin air. Sometimes she was high
up, and sometimes low down, so that the bust nearly
touched the floor, in which position she looked most
unearthly, as it looked like a head wandering about
with no legs or body, visible or invisible. The base of
the bust was not inclined towards the medium, the
source of power — there was perfect freedom of
motion in all directions. "When Katie put her head
out into the passage again the phosphorescent light was
still not powerful enough for the recognition of features,
so she said “ break up for a quarter-of-an-hour, and
then try the little benzoline lamp.” The medium was
instructed to go out into the fresh air.
At the next sitting the little lamp was tried. The
amount of light was carefully regulated according to
orders from Katie, who cried out “higher” or <clower”
as she wanted it. She entranced Miss Cook, who was
May 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
35
asleep all through this and the next sitting. Katie’s face
came out, all the rest of the head being bandaged round
with white, “ in order,” she said, “ to keep the power
by which she materialised herself from passing away
too quickly.” She said that only her face and not all
her hedd was materialised. This time all present had a
good look at her, and saw her features. It was re¬
marked that her eyes were closed. Each time the
face came out for, perhaps, half a minute. Afterwards
she said, “ Willie, see me smile,” and again, “ See me
talk,” suiting the action to the word. Then she
said, “ Now, Cook, turn on the light.” The light was
turned fully up, sending a bright glare upon the face
for an instant, and for the first time Katie King was
clearly seen. She had a young, pretty, happy face, and
sparkling eyes, with some little mischief in them. It
was not ghastly, as when Mrs. Cook and family saw it
on April 22nd, “ because,” said Katie, “ I know now how
to do it better.” When her face in its natural colours
was seen in full light, nearly all the observers said,
“ We can see you all right now, Katie.” “ Well then,”
said she, “ clap !” Accordingly there was a shower
of applause, in which Katie joined by thrusting out her
arm and hand, holding a fan taken from the mantel¬
piece ; with the fan she began to gleefully beat the
wall outside the door, and to ring the bells hanging
above the door.
During the interval of one hour for supper, Mr. T. Bly-
ton, Secretary to the Dalston Association of Enquirers
into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, came in,
and he was present at the next sitting. Katie showed
herself as before. Once she said, “ Put out the light,
and strike a match when I call.” This was done, and
at the moment of the striking of the match, her face
was again seen for an instant in a full light. She
showed her face a second time in the same way. Once
she said, *£ Cook, don’t gaze at me too fixedly ; it hurts
me.” On another occasion she said “The light hurts
me ; it makes me feel tired.” All along she was very
careful in adjusting the amount of light, and the distance
of the sitters from the curtains. Now and then she
said, “ Sing, sing all of you.” Singing evidently
helped her as much as at an ordinary seance. She
threw out about a yard of white fabric, but kept hold
of it by the other end, saying “Look, this is spirit
drapery.” I said, “ Drop it into the passage, Katie, and
let us see it melt away; or let us cut a piece off.” She
replied, “ I can’t, but look here ! ” She then drew back
her hand, which was above the top of the curtain, and,
as the spirit drapery touched the curtain, it passed right
through, just as if there were no resistance whatever.
She then threw it out again, and again the yard of
drapery passed through the curtain. It was a clear
case of something which looked like solid matter passing
through solid matter, and we all saw it. I think that
at first there was friction between the two fabrics, and
that they rustled against each ♦other; but that when
she said, “ Look here! ” some quality which made the
drapery common matter was withdrawn from it, and at
once it passed through the common matter of the cur¬
tain, without experiencing any resistance.
Mr. Thomas Ply ton has sent an account of what he
witnessed:—
We descended to the breakfast parlour, the door of which
was opened back, and a curtain hung across the opening, leav¬
ing a space at the top of about a foot in depth. ' The medium
then seated herself in a chair inside the room in front of the
door, and about five feet from it. The gas was then turned off,
and we made our exit from the room, arranging ourselves outside,
on the stairs, while Mr. Cook took charge of the lighted lamp.
In a short time we heard the medium utter short expressions
to “ Katie ” to “ leave her alone.” After spirit hands and arms
had been shown, the curtains were parted sufficiently to permit
of “ Katie” putting out her head, which was covered with a
kind of white drapery, similar to that of the spirit picture with
Mrs. Guppy and her son Tommy. Katie spoke to us, and in¬
quired whether we could see her distinctly, and, at our request,
turned her face about so that we might the more plainly
observe it. At short intervals the spirit repeatedly thus
manifested herself to us, and I may here remark that the
face was beautiful to look upon. At times, when speaking,
the features were very natural and human in appearance. On
our requesting to see a piece of the white drapery, the spirit
held out a strip from the opening resembling muslin in appear¬
ance. On her withdrawing her arm and hand, this white spirit
drapery disappeared through the curtain. This passing of the
drapery through the curtain was repeated several times. The
hour being somewhat late, Katie wished us all good night, adding
fervently, “ God bless you all;” and previously she had said, “ I
am so pleased, so pleased, at being able thus to see you face to
face,” which we reciprocated from our hearts. This was one
of the most convincing and pleasing seances which I have been
privileged to attend, having seen the spirits visibly before only
through the mediumship of the brothers Davenport, and then
not so clearly and distinctly as through the mediumship of
Miss Home Cook. At a seance with Messrs. Herne and Williams
at their chambers, on Saturday evening, 4th instant, a female
spirit face and hands repeatedly came within a few inches of
my own face; in this case being made visible by phosphores-
oent lights proceeding from the fingers. The spirit referred to
here was known to and recognised by Mr. Hy. Clifford Smith,
who, with Mr. W. H. Harrison, was sitting next to me. The
spirit floated towards each of us in turn, making every effort
in order to enable us to distinctly distinguish the features.
Surely our opponents little dream of the satisfaction and
blessing of spirit intercourse, which, while making us feel so
thankful to the individual spirits for their efforts on our behalf,'
enforces upon us feelings of gratitude and praise to our
Creator for the blessings so freely bestowed upon us in this
material age. Thomas Button.
Navarino-road, Dalstoxx, E., 6th May, 1872.
Friday, April 2Qth. — At another seance at Mr.
Cook’s, little Katie King several times made herself
visible in the full light of a match. Mrs. A. Cooper,
Miss K. Edmiston (of Beckenham), and myself, were
among the witnesses. In all cases the matches used
were those “ warranted to light only on the box,” and
they blaze up well at first.
Saturday, April 271A—Another sitting for the faces
at Messrs. Herne and Williams’s. This was a failure,
as only two faces were feebly visible for a few seconds
to the persons at one side of the circle. Once there
was a great noise with some of the furniture, and John
King remarked that a strange spirit was present trying
to stop the manifestations. Upon this a gentleman from
Brixton—a member of the council of one of the chief
of the London learned societies, but whose name I
have no permission to print—said that spirit came
there with him, and was one of a band which had been
harassing his circle at home, in the attempt to stop
manifestations.
Saturday, May 4f7i.—Another sitting at Messrs.
Herne and Williams’s. The faces of Katie King and
the lady known to Mr. Clifford Smith, showed them¬
selves more distinctly than on the preceding Saturday,
but the manifestations were not strong. Katie said
that she would be able to do better before long.
Tuesday May 1th.—At a seance at Mr. Cook’s, Katie
King, the younger, made her whole face visible more
perfectly than in any previous instance. She let us
strike a match within four or five feet of it, and with¬
stood the light till all the match was burnt out. Mr.
T. Blyton, Mr. Cook, Mrs. Cook, children, servant,
and myself, were the witnesses. Soon afterwards
there was a great crash in the dark room, and not a
little screaming from the medium, who ran out and
said there was some great lump there—she thought it
was a man. We went in and found Mr. Herne there
entranced on the floor, with the large square table
bottom upwards, and one of its leaves, on which he
had fallen, broken right off. His account of himself
was that he had been in the company of a friend at
the West End, who would get into much trouble if his
name were publicly mixed up with Spiritualism, that
he then became insensible, and on awaking found him¬
self in his seance room at Lamb’s Conduit-street; that
he then went into Mr. Andrews’s workshop and spoke
to a workman there ; that he became insensible again,
and afterwards found himself in Mr. Cook’s breakfast
parlour at Hackney. It was 8.40 p.m. exactly when
he appeared at Mr. Cook’s, and he complained of having
been brought without his hat and umbrella. At ten
o’clock we had a dark seance; directly the lights were
put out, his umbrella and somebody else’s hat (owner
unknown) fell upon the table, and nearly all the con¬
tents of a great bookcase in the seance room were
emptied on the top of the table. Next day I saw the
said workman at Mr. Andrews’s, who said that on the
previous evening, somewhere between half-past eight
and a quarter to nine, Mr. Herne entered the workshop
and walked out again. Mr. Cook’s house is about
three miles in a straight line from Mr. Andrews’s.
There the matter rests. It will be noticed that from a
legal point of view the evidence of transportation in
this case is very weak, and I should not publish the
incident were it not that thoroughly authenticated
accounts of the carriage of mediums by spirits have
already been printed in The Spiritualist. A few days
ago, Mrs. C. Berry, who lives nearly opposite the
Marble Arch, in the house formerly occupied by Dr.
Ashburner, was in Mr. Hudson’s photographic studio ;
Mr. Williams left it, as he did not wish to sit for more
spirit pictures, when suddenly he fell, by daylight,
inside the studio while the doors were shut. Mrs.
Berry was first aware of his presence, on seeing his
boots and legs falling before her eyes.
Saturday, May Ylth.—At a seance at Messrs. Herne
and Williams’s the manifestations were weak, one of
the mediums being tired, and the other one unwell.
Some faces were made visible, but not very clearly.
Sunday, May \2th.— Dr. Purdon, of the Isle of
Wight, has sent me the following letter :—
Sir,—At a private sitting on the evening of May 12th,
which was kindly offered to me by Mr. Cook, of Hackney, to
assist me in the prosecution of my investigation of the reality
of the facts of Spiritualism, a face and hands appeared
through an opening in the curtain hung up across the door as
a temporary screen. I carefully examined the room before the
sitting, and by no possibility could any deception have been
practised by the agency of an assistant. The face which ap¬
peared was not that of the medium, and consequently must
have belonged to an entity corresponding to the body of a
human being. In one of the hands, which appeared several
times, was a peculiar flashing light, which exhibited a play of
colours, and was very beautiful. I was permitted to feel the
hands ; they corresponded as far as I could judge to those of
a living person.—I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
John E. Purdon, M.B.
The great thing to be done now, is to present Messrs.
Herne and Williams with a cabinet, and to try to get
the faces with them by artificial light.*
* X have consulted John and Katie King on the matter, and they have
told me what kind of cabinet they want: interior dimensions, 6 feet broad,
4 feet 6 inches deep, and 6 feet 3 inches high. It should be raised from the
ground by short legs, and run on castors, so that the floor beneath it and
every part of it can be easily examined by inquirers. It must be very
strong. A carpenter has given me an estimate of £10 for one, but a com-
THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
DR. RUTHERFORD OK THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
In our March number we published a report of a few of Dr.
Rutherford’s lectures on “ The Nervous System,” and now give
a summary of a few more utterances on the same subject.
Dr. Rutherford, in his lecture delivered on Tuesday, Feb.
13th, said that one of the functions of a nerve-cell is to keep
a bloodvessel in a state of semi-contraction, by the interven¬
tion of a muscle, which surrounds the bloodvessel, because
when a nerve is cut the vessel dilates. He placed a live rabbit
on the lecture table ; one of its ears was red, and the other
pale. He said that he had caused one of its ears to blush in
this way by cutting one of the sympathetic nerves in the neck
of the animal, so that the ear became red by the dilation of
the bloodvessels. There is reason to suppose that nerves con¬
nect the insides of bloodvessels with the medulla oihlongata,
and that the proper action of the nerves keeps the blood¬
vessels in a medium state of dilation.
On Tuesday, February 20th, Dr. Rutherford stated that the
nerves of the body constitute a telegraphic system. The pro¬
tozoa, and some few of the lowest forms of animal life, in¬
cluding the sea anemone, have no nervous system, but animals
above these are, for the most part, possessed of nerves. In
the lower animals the nervous system is very simple, but as
we rise in the scale of creation it becomes more complex, till
in the lobster a somewhat complicated system of nerves is
reached. In vertebrated animals, or animals possessing a
backbone, the nervous system is very complicated indeed. A
“ ganglion ” is simply a name for a mass of nerve cells. In
vertebrated animals the sympathetic nervous system consists
of two long chains of nerves down the backbone, one chain on
each side ; and there are sympathetic nerves in other parts of
the body. The cerebro-spinal system of nerves includes the
chief parts of the spinal cord, and of the inside of the skull.
The nerves are connected with the medulla oblongata, near
the bottom of the brain, and above the medulla oblongata is a
mass of ganglia or nerve cells, and these lie at the bottom of
the brain. The spinal cord, in short, may be considered to be
an extension of the brain. The nerves consist of nerve fibres
and nerve cells. The fibres are so fine that they have never
been measured; they are perfectly transparent, colourless,
and homogeneous ; if acted upon by various chemical reagents
they swell up at places. The finest fibres are called “ fibrils
they usually run in bundles, which bundles are called “ fibres,”
and the bundles are surrounded by two or three coverings.
The covering of the sympathetic nerves is a transparent mem¬
brane, containing oval nuclei, forming a grey sheath, so that
these are called the grey nerves. The cerebro-spinal nerves
have sometimes a white sheath only, and sometimes a grey
sheath in addition. When a nerve has only a white sheath it
is easily broken up into a number of drops or irregular forms,
for the broken ends are viscous, and join together to form
ovals. Wherever these nerves are exposed to pressure in the
body they are provided with a grey sheath as well as a white
one. The central part of a white nerve becomes hard after
death; chromic acid hardens the nerves, so that they can then
be torn to pieces with a needle, and obtained in lengths so
that their parts can be examined under a microscope. The
terminations of the nerves have no sheath. The coverings
serve to insulate the nerves, and, it has been supposed, to
insulate them like the wires of a telegraphic cable, so that the
nerve force may not escape. The electric lobe of the torpedo
is covered by very thick sheaths, although they are subject to
very little pressure, so they are supposed to be more for insu¬
lation than protection j this,.however, is all speculation. The
nerves end in nerve cells, which contain a distinct nucleus,
and that cell is composed of protoplasm ; there is a great
difference in the shape of cells, and in the number of nerves
connected with them. The nerve cells are probably imme¬
diately acted upon by thought. How the fibrils end in the
nerve cells it is difficult to see in the human subject, but in
the torpedo they can be seen. The nerve cell appears to be a
a point where nerve fibres originate, also where they meet
each other. The cell consists of a diffused mass of a grey
granular gelatinous material, which is found only in the higher
animals, and in the brain. In the spinal cord the white por¬
tion lies outside, the grey matter inside ; the grey matter of
the spinal cord consists of grey nerve cells and grey nerve
matter. The convolutions of the brain are made for the pur¬
pose of packing, and of getting a large surface of grey and
white nerve matter; much more nutrition or blood is required
to feed the grey than the white matter, hence the former has
a larger supply of bloodvessels. The white matter seems to
be for the purpose of receiving thought-messages, and the
grey matter for giving them out. He concluded by saying
that Dr. Lockhardt Clarke, F.R.S., had made great additions
to scientific knowledge by his careful researches in connection
with the brain and nervous system.
Next month we will give the remainder of these instructi ve
lectures.
DEMONOLOGY.
The Rev. Moncure D. Conway has recently given a course
of lectures at the Royal Institution on “ Demonology.” The
substance of his teachings was that the devils of most reli¬
gions were the good gods of the preceding religions, and that
when the priests of the new religion had not sufficient power
to force the people to believe their old gods to be demons,
they made a compromise, amalgamating the new and the old
gods into the Trinities of the Hindoo and some other faiths.
He said that the devil of modern Europe is derived from the
ancient god Pan, who was a good-natured individual, though
too voluptuous. He argued that when semi-civilised men
began to think about the causes of the apparent evil in the
world, they of necessity invented the devil, so that it was an
absolute necessity of the undeveloped human mind that
theology and the devil should be born into the world to¬
gether.
From want of room this month we are reluctantly com¬
pelled to postpone notices of several new books, including thd
new edition of Spiritualism Answered by Science (by Mr. Serjt.
Cox) Heaven Opened, Our Home in the Stars, and others.
Three weeks ago a testimonial was presented at the
“ Cannon-street Hotel,” to Mr. and Mrs. Everitt. In conse¬
quence of the shorthand writers having sent in the notes too
late for us this month, we are compelled to postpone the publi¬
cation thereof.
moner one would do as well, and cost, perhaps, between £5 and £7. I have
received some subscriptions towards one, and request those of the readers
of the Spiritualist who would like to subscribe to send remittances to me at
the Spiritualist newspaper office, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C. Subscrip¬
tions shall be acknowledged in the next number of this journal, and if too
much is sent me, I will expend it on optical apparatus, to throw different
kinds of light upon the faces, to learn what rays of the spectrum the faces
can most easily withstand.—W. H. Harrison.
36
THE SPIRIT U ALIST.
May 15, 1872.
MR. GERALD MASSEY ON SPIRITUALISM.
Last Sunday afternoon, Mr. Gerald Massey gave the first
of four lectures on Spiritualism, at St. George’s Hall, Regent-
street, London. There was a very large attendance, the hall
being full. The galleries were full to overflowing, and there,
were’ but few vacant seats downstairs. Among the listeners
present were the Earl and Countess of Caithness, Colonel
Lane Fox, Mr. William Crookes, F.R. S., Lady Helena Newen-
ham, Mr. H. D. Jencken, barrister-at-law, Mr, Walter Crookes,
Professor Blackie, Mr. F. Collingwood, secretary to the An¬
thropological Society, Mr. Benjamin Coleman, Mr. N. F. Daw,
Mr. Arbuthnot, Mrs. Guppy, Mr. John Jones, Mr. S. C. Hooley,
and many of the leading supporters of the movement. Among
the letters received by Mr. Massey expressing the regret of
the writers at their inability to attend, was one from Mr.
Alfred Tennyson, the Poet Laureate, who said that he had
read Mr. Massey’s little book Concerning ^ Spiritualism more
than once, and had induced others to read it. He would have
liked to have been present at the lectures, but was prevented
by the distance of his residence from London.
Mr. Massey began by detailing his personal experiences in
Spiritualism. He said that he was no visionary, but had
always had to earn his own living by various means, from the
pitchfork to the pen, whereby he had acquired a habit of
looking facts in the face. He did not seek the spirits, but
they came to him ; and he was always ready to tell the truth
about what he knew, even though he stood in a minority of
one. Twenty-two years ago he was invited to see a young
clairvoyant read without the use of her natural eyes, and in
course of time she became his wife. He afterwards found
out that this reading by abnormal vision was an unmistake-
able fact, for he had seen his wife reading clairvoyantly some
hundreds of times. Brewster, the Bishop of Winchester, and
others, saw her do this, and he thought they believed in it
then, though he did not know what were their opinions now.
She could not read clairvoyantly with her eyes open, she
could only read when the pupils were drawn up towards the
brain. She read diseases for an eminent physician in the
hospitals. Once she told a young man how his ribs were
broken ; by clairvoyance she traced a lost carpet bag she had
never seen, and told how it contained two silver-mounted
pistols, and an artificial arm. She told him of his mother's
death, though his mother was then two hundred miles off, and
she clairvoyantly saw the letter announcing the fact some
hours before he saw it himself. Once she saw Eliza, the ser¬
vant, breaking the centre pane of a window, a few hours
before the pane was actually broken by the said servant. She
told him that he need not trouble about the journal on which
he had just received an engagement, for it would die at the
twelfth number, and it did die at that number. While living
at Ooniston she told how a cousin had been garotted in Lon¬
don ; she did not see the garotting at the time, but she had
the vision while the mother was writing a letter about the
occurrence. The lecturer gave other examples of the same
kind, after which he said that his experience had taught him
that some kinds of insanity were only disordered forms of
somnambulism. Her mind would waver at times, but if he put
her into the mesmeric trance, there was no want of lucidity
then. In 1863 her mental illness grew worse, and the doctors
insisted on her removal. The next night there were peculiar
scratching noises at the foot of their bedstead ; they grew
louder, and after in vain trying to find out the cause, he called
in the servant who heard them too. Then the girl’s mother
was called in, who also listened to them. As a last resource
he began to think that spirits made the disturbance, but he
was disgusted with the scraping noises they made. He said,
“ If a spirit is present, rap three times,” and received three
scrapes in answer, at which he was not frightened, but he felt
white. He asked if Marion and his wife’s mother were
present, and was answered “ Yes,” They further said that
they had come to do his wife good ; she was shortly after¬
wards entranced, and became aware of the presence of the
two spirits. They told him not to put her away; that on
the morrow she would be worse, but that next Sunday
she would be permanently better; all this came true.
Afterwards, when they sat at a table they obtained raps; some¬
times they had them when friends were present, but the
answers the raps gave to questions were often as much wrong
as right. Afterwards they obtained planchette writing, and
one day, by means of a pencil tied to the leg of a stool,
“ Miiller not guilty ”, was one of the messages written out; and
by the same method they obtained a tolerably correct signa¬
ture of Shakespeare. It might be remembered that on the
trial of Muller the defence set up was an alibi—that he was
not there—the question of how Mr. Briggs was killed was not
tried. He (Mr. Massey) had examined the evidence at the
time, and noticed this; he wrote a letter about it, made eight
copies, and sent one to each of the London daily papers, but,
as he thought, not one was printed. A spirit, professing to be
Muller, often said, “ Thank you for trying to save my poor
neck.” I said, “ They would not print it,” but he insisted that
it had been printed. It was in March that Muller said this;
he had been hanged the preceding November. On the July
following a lady told him that his letter had been printed in
the Daily News, and on examination he found this to be true;
he had somehow overlooked the printing of the letter at the
time. Miiller said that he made a snatch at the watch, and
he was a man who had always had a mania for watches. In
the course of the fight they fell out of the carriage together.
He (the lecturer) believed that Muller might have been guilty
of manslaughter, but thought that he was not guilty of murder.
He wrote a letter to his father the night before his death,
which letter utterly upsets what he said upon the scaffold;
that letter was never sent to its destination. It is now in the
possession of Mr. Jonas, of Newgate, who holds it on behalf of the
Sheriffs of London and Middlesex. It ought to be published;
he had made every endeavour to get it, but failed. To return
to the other intelligence, which, through the leg of the stool,
claimed to be Shakespeare; he soon found out that this intelli¬
gence knew more about Shakespeare and his sonnets than he and
his wife did, and proved to him that one of the sonnets which
he thought not to be genuine was genuine ; it told him of an
earlier edition containing an extra line, which cleared up all
the doubts ; he accordingly searched for the earlier edition,
and found in it the extra line of which he had been previously
told. In 1865 they entered a new house; the housekeeper
complained of noises in the kitchen, and that she could not
stop there; he did not wish to prove this to be true ; the place
had been presented to him rent free, and he did not want to
be turned out by a ghost. But the spirit would come and
swear fearfully at their stool, in low Buckinghamshire blas¬
phemy. This unhappy spirit said that he had been a murderer,
and that the bones of the murdered child were in the garden.
He (Mr. Massey) found some small bones there, which he be¬
lieved to be human bones. There were strange noises about
that house, and he thought that “unhappiness in the next
world often meant strength in the physical manifestations.”
His wife at last died by his side while talking to him ; and at
his first sitting with Mr. Home, she said to him, “ I kept on
talking to yon and you did not hear, and I wondered at it.”
He also was talking to her, and found that she did not hear
him. The lecturer then spoke of Mr. Serjeant Cox’s psychic
force, saying that it could not be accepted by Spiritualists.
Mr. Crookes deserved well of Spiritualists, and had been
treated with much foul play by scientific men. He could not
understand Dr. Carpenter’s unconscious cerebration; how a
forgotten thought in the brain of a man could unconsciously
get into the head of a medium, thence into a table, and finally
reveal itself to the consciousness of the original owner. One
must not call a man a liar ; but as an article was an indefinite
thing, there was no harm in saying that the recent Quarterly
Review article had a lie on every page of it; its title was,
“ Spiritualism and its Recent Converts,” the alleged converts
being men who had publicly printed their disbelief in
Spiritualism. He closed by telling how Our deepest life
reaches far beyond our consciousness, and how we uncon¬
sciously drink in inspiration from the spirit world.
The lecture next Sunday by Mr. Massey, begins at three
o’clock, and he will deal with ethnological subjects.
MISS FLORENCE COOK’S MEDIUMSHIP.
About two years ago, medial powers began to be developed
in Miss Florence Cook, and since then the manifestations
which occur in her presence have been steadily increasing
both in importance and strength. Her mediumship is
governed by somewhat delicate conditions at present; she is
more sensitive than most media to adverse influences, and
it will probably be six months or a year yet before she ac¬
quires anything like full power. At the same time, under
good conditions, she obtains most remarkable manifestations
in the shape of clairvoyance, trance-speaking, raps, table-
motions, the direct spirit voice, spirit faces and hands, levi¬
tations, direct spirit writing, elongation of the body, in fact
nearly every kind of manifestation. As her mediumship has
been developed in her own home, she has been much protec¬
ted from adverse influences, and from first to last has had none
of those disagreeable experiences which undeveloped media
sometimes encounter through sitting in mixed circles : she
has thus escaped from being plagued at any time by spirits
of a low order ; her guardian spirit is a friend of her
mother’s, and was in earth life the wife of a clergyman. Mrs.
Cook says that the house has been quite changed for the better
since the spirits entered, and that the whole family have
been made happier by their presence ; they would feel the
cessation of spirit intercourse in their home to be an irrepa¬
rable loss. This is good, testimony, coming as it does from
those who at first were prejudiced against Spiritualism, and
have since had two years experience at home. We have seen
much of Miss Cook's mediumship, and think that within a
year she will be one of the most remarkable mediums in
England ; shortly after we first met her, the spirits gave us
the message, “ She has great power,” and up to the present
time that assertion has been fully verified. We asked Miss
Cook to write a little history of the development of her
mediumship, and she has kindly furnished us with the follow¬
ing narrative:—
I am sixteen years of age. From my childhood I could
see spirits and hear voices, and was addicted to sitting by
myself talking to what I declared to be living people. As no
one else could see or hear anything, my parents tried to make
me believe it was all imagination, but I would not alter my
belief, so was looked upon as a very eccentric child. In the
spring of 1870 I was invited to the house of a school-friend,
whose name I am not at liberty to mention. She asked me
if I had ever heard of spirit-rapping, adding that her father,
mother, and self had sat at a table and got movements, and
that if I liked, they would try that evening. I was horrified
at such i wickedness,” as I called it, and said if spirits com¬
municated they must be bad ones. I refused to sit, and went
home greatly disgusted with the idea of spirits tapping tables.
I told mamma about it; she said, “ Doubtless Miss was
joking. It is all a trick to amuse the children. When next
you go, sit at the table and see all the fun.” I felt I should
like to know what it all meant, so in a few days went to Mr.
 ’s. A seance was arranged. The sitters were Mr. and Mrs.
 , their daughter, and myself. We placed our hands
on a moderately large table; it soon moved about un¬
easily; then distinct raps where heard. I rose from the
table to see if I could find out who or what was producing
the sounds. I could see nothing. I walked round the room.
To my amazement, the raps followed me. Mr.  said,—
“We have never had raps before. Florrie, it must be through
you. ” I returned to the table and called over the alphabet.
A message was given to me from what purported to be the
spirit of my aunt. I asked my friends if they would stand
away from the table, leaving me by myself. The table rose
from the floor quite four feet. I went home astonished.
Mamma and I went a few days after. We had some excellent
tests of spirit identity given us, still we did not believe in
spirits. At last it was spelt out that if we would sit in the
dark I should be carried round the room. I laughed, not
thinking it would be done, and put out the light. The room
was not perfectly dark, a light came in from the window. Soon
I felt my chair taken from me. I was lifted up until I touched
the ceiling. All in the room could see me. I felt too startled
at my novel position to scream, and was carried over the
heads of the sitters, and put gently on to a table at the other
end of the room. Mamma asked if we could get manifesta¬
tions at our own home. The table answered, “ Yes,” and that
I was a medium. The next evening we sat at home, a table
and two chairs were smashed, and a great deal of mischief
done. We said we could never sit again, but we were not
left in peace. Books and other articles were thrown at me,
chairs walked about in the light, the table tilted violently at
mealtimes, and great noises were sometimes made at night.
At last we sat again ; the table behaved better, and a com¬
munication was given to the effect that we were to go to 74,
Navarino-road, and that there was an association of Spiritualists
there. Out of curiosity mamma and I went, and found we had
been told quite correctly. Mr. Thomas Blyton came to a seance
at our house; he invited me to a seance at Mr. Wilkes’s
library in Dalston-lane. There I met Mr. Harrison. He came
to see the manifestations at my home. By this time we were
convinced of the truth of spirit communion. About this
time I was first entranced ; a spirit spoke through me, telling
papa that if I sat with Messrs. Herne and Williams, I should
get the direct voice. I had several sittings with them and
finally succeeded in getting the direct voice, direct writing,
and spirit touches. The presiding spirit of my circles is Katie,
John King’s daughter. She speaks very much the same as her
mother, who is the celebrated Katie King of Heme and
Williams’ seances. Sometimes she uses a tube, she has lately
spoken without it. While she and other spirits are talking, I
feel as if I cannot breathe. I used to be entranced while the
more powerful manifestations were going on, but that has now
gone off. Before a good seance I am usually very much ex¬
cited and restless. After a seance I cannot stay indoors. I
always get into the fresh air. If I sit too long I am much ex¬
hausted the next day, and cannot bear anyone to touch me.
Since I have sat regularly my health has greatly improved.
I am very passionate, but my temper is soon over. Mamma
and several of the family are mediums, but some of them knew
nothing of Spiritualism until lately. ^We belong to the Church
of England, and were very orthodox. I used to be afraid of
death, but . Spiritualism has taken away all my fears.
CumspontiniM.
\Qrwxt freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this jowrnal and its readers.]
HEALING MEDITTMSHIP.
Sir,—I have long wished to give publicity to the great
power of healing possessed by Mr. Joseph Ashman, of 254,
Marylebone-road, but have deferred doing so until I could give
the references with the consent of the parties healed, as well
as my own personal knowledge of his success in each case
now mentioned, as I feel if such power was known, it would
soon be appreciated by numbers of poor sufferers. Long
before I saw Mr. Ashman, I was directed by my spirit friend,
Dr. Hahnemann, to send him to an extreme case I had just
heard of, and was told, that power would be given him to
heal, so I wrote and requested Mr. Ashman to go to Mr.
Brayfield, 8, Hyndman-place, Church-fields, Old Kent-road,
as he had fallen from a scaffolding some three weeks pre¬
viously, and the two physicians attending him gave him no hope
of ever being well again. They had directed his removal to a
hospital for three months, and said there was no probability of
his doing a day’s work for the next six months, if then, as they
saw danger of consumption setting in from exhaustion. In a
few moments after Mr. Ashman entered the sick room (where he
found this poor man unable even to lift his head from the
pillow to take a cup of tea, hut raised at that very time by his
wife and her sister and brother), Mr. Brayfield got up and
dressed himself and went into the next room ; from that day
he continued to improve. I will quote his note to me, in
answer to my questions on this subject:—“ I should feel most
happy to have any one refer to me as I never felt better in my
life than I do at this present time, through the good I derived
from Mr. Ashman, and let me thank you for the kindness and
trouble you took in the matter, for I often think, if it had not
been for the change made in so short a time, I should not now
have been here. (Signed) G. Brayfield.” Mr. Ashman went
but three times to see this case, and surely no plea for faith,
&c., can be put in as the means of cure, as neither of them
had ever heard of each other ere that. Another case, Mrs.
Shepherd, 20, Adam-street East, Manchester-square West,
came down to visit my landlady, and from enquiry I found she
had become quite ill in health, unable to do aught from the
prostration caused by nursing a sick lady with cancer for
more than a year. After being once mesmerised by Mr.
Ashman, she was greatly revived and strengthened, and has
continued to improve ever since. Another, Mr. Henry Taylor,
of 6, John-street, Bedford-row, cured of inflammatory rheu¬
matism, and swollen throat. Another, Edward J. Evans, 11,
Church-road, Battersea, cured of a contracted arm in a few
moments. Another, R. J. Judd, of Bromville, Rotherham,
Yorkshire, cured of a swelling under the jaw by a mesmerised
cloth. Also “ Jonas,” 215, Lancaster-road, cured of sciatica
of some months standing. “ Hoar,” 2, Church-place, Pad¬
dington-green, cured of gout in his hands ; and “ Mr. Wright,”
cured of inflammation of the socket of the shoulder, the only
relief he had ever got after trying many hospital doctors.
There are many others whose cases I lenow, yet their dread of
publicity, which in other words means “ sneers and ridicule,”
causes them to decline giving their names. I can also speak
of personal relief obtained, and I shall esteem it a kindness if
you could find a place for this in your valuable paper, as I
have always found Mr. Ashman most obliging and kind, never
refusing to give relief, though often at personal sacrifice.
Chelsea. C. A.
EFFICACY OF PBAYEE,
Sir,—Prayer, I think, is the supplication of a mind for the
aid of a greater power in its behalf, when it finds its own
willing” insufficient to bring about a desired result.
Willis universally acknowledged to be the might of mind; the
power by which man attracts, and repels like consciousness,
and by which, in just proportion to its strength, he becomes
the controller of circumstances. It is to an action of Supreme
Will on space, that religionists account for the growth of this
endless stretch of worlds; although man, to whom the rule of
one world was entrusted, does not yet know the full power of
the means given him by which to subdue it, still there are
instances on record where will has been brought to a state of
high culture.
If the wills of our Lyceum children were trainid with care,
many would soon rise up in our midst, of whom an unspiritual
multitude might exclaim, “What manner of men are these:
even the wind and the sea obey them.”
Christ, who told His disciples, that by faith a man could
remove mountains, also said: howbeit this kind (of power ?)
goeth not out but by prayer and fasting. St. Matt, xvii, 19—21.
It was by fasting and prayer, fervent prayer, that His will
had been refined. Yet He had passed through mediumship
as the beloved son and intelligent pupil of a sage. No unseen
causes had been kept back from Him; no opportunities for
exercising His independent will had been refused. Truly His
faith sometimes drooped, but then, in those hours of weak¬
ness, He cried to His God, and angels came and strengthened
Him.
A wish is the first pulsation of a prayer; hence all men
pray. Bad wishes rarely reach the superlative degree; for
man is good.
All must start from personal experiences. As far back as I
remember most of my desires have been fulfilled, and since I
have had intercourse with mediums, I have found that those
things, for which l am hoping still, are gradually coming to
pass.
If results like those of Christ’s prayers, and those of good
men’s, are still worth striving for, let us, their reputed fol¬
lowers, pray also. A. Norton.
. May 14th, 1872. ... ■  
Recently the Pall Mall Gazette and Daily News pub¬
lished a case of mysterious stone-throwing in Bermondsey.
We made inquiries, and were told that a girl confessed to have-
thrown the stones.
Mat 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
37
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY.
In dealing with the subject of the spirit photographs
now produced by Mr. Hudson, we labour under the
disadvantage of not having a complete set of them
(which he promised us some weeks ago) before us for
critical examination. Some of our knowledge of them
has been gained by examination of those which chanced
to be lying about on the five or six occasions on which
we called there, and much of it from the testimony of
others which we now publish. Broadly stated, there is
absolute evidence that many of the pictures taken are
genuine spirit photographs ; it is also certain that many
of the pictures turned out by Mr. Hudson can be arti¬
ficially imitated; these latter are being narrowly
scrutinised by Spiritualists, and are the subject of
much contention—they require rigid examination.
HOW SHAM GHOST PICTUEES CAN BE PEODTJCED.
There are five chief methods by which photographers
can produce artificial spirit pictures :—
1. By collusion of the sitter. The person who acts
the ghost jumps aside in the. middle of the exposure of
the plate in the camera. The sitter receives the proper
length of exposure, but as the B ghost ” was only in
the field of view half the time, an image of the furniture
behind him afterwards falls on the plate ; thus in the
finished prints the said furniture is dimly seen through
the ghostly figure. The best imitation ghost pictures
are produced in this way, but as the scores of high-
class people who have been to Mr. Hudson would not
aid or abet any imposture, this method of producing
spirit pictures may be dismissed from further considera¬
tion.
2. By double-printing upon paper. That is to say,
printing the sitter from one negative and the ghost
from the other, on the same piece of paper. Mr. Hud¬
son, however, always shows the negative, with the
spirit and sitter upon it, to the sitter, directly after the
plate is developed, and within a few minutes after it is
taken from the camera.
3. By using a plate of glass in such a molecular
state, that when clean to the eye, it has an invisible
ghost-picture upon it, which developes and becomes
visible in any negative afterwards taken on the plate.
Pictures can be taken in this way by using peculiar
samples of glass and chemicals selected for the purpose,
but the ghostly images thus produced are very faint,
and there is much uncertainty in their production. The
resulting pictures bear no resemblance at all to Mr.
Hudson’s, as any photographer can see at a glance;
moreover, some pictures have come upon a plate of glass
brought to him by the sitter, and not in his possession
till he collodionised it and dipped it in the bath.
4. By double exposure at long intervals. A plate is
exposed on the person who acts the ghost; it is not
developed, but put away wet in a damp box, and kept
for half an hour or more; the weaker the solution of
free nitrate of silver on the face of the plate, and the
cooler the weather, the longer will the plate keep after
the first exposure. When a sitter afterwards comes in,
a picture of him is taken on another part of the same
plate, so that in the development the sitter and the
ghost come out together. Pictures like many of Mr.
Hudson’s could be produced in this way, wherefore we
recommend him in future to refuse to take any spirit
picture unless the sitter first puts his initials on the
plate to be used, by means of a diamond.
5. By printing from a dense positive a ghost picture on
one part of the plate, by diffused light, between the de¬
velopment and sensitising of the plate. Skilled photogra¬
phers have watched Mr. Hudson all through the process
again and again, so that then there has been no opportu¬
nity for any operation of the kind, either inside or outside
the camera, the said camera also having been previously
examined. Moreover, many of his best pictures could
not possibly be produced in this way. In the words of
the editor of the British Journal of Photography about
one of the pictures :—“ Some e expert ’ professional
photographic friends who have seen the picture are of
opinion that the light female figure [the spirit] could
not have been placed on the negative by any known
system of double-printing, and hence think that at the
time of the negative being taken the figure must have
been standing behind the sitters.” Since those words
were written a great number of spirit photographs
have been taken which the experienced photographer
can tell at a glance could not have been produced “ by
any known system of double-printing.”
There are also some pictures which could be imitated
by double-printing on the negative, so we recommend
Mr. Hudson to get some friend of the sitters to over¬
look all operations in the dark room, whenever the
sitter does not come alone.
ME. T. SLATEE ON SPIEIT PHOTOGEAPHS.
Mr. T. Slater, the optician, who is a Spiritualist,
went to Mr. Hudson’s, taking his own camera, lenses,
and plates. He used a peculiar portrait lens, one of
the lenses of the combination being of deep blue glass,
cutting off all light, with the exception of most of the
chemical rays. Those waves which act with most
chemical intensity lie in the blue part of the spectrum;
some waves which are wholly invisible, act on sensitive
photographic films but not very powerfully. As, how¬
ever, the spirit forms are certainly illuminated by the
same light as the sitter, it seems as if they reflect the
invisible photographic rays infinitely more completely
than common matter reflects them. Perhaps, in that
last remark we have unveiled much of the philosophy
of spirit pictures; and it may be that if Mr. Slater
went to Mr. Hudson’s again with his blue lens and
camera, he might be able to see the spirits, if he took
some thin tissue paper wetted with sulphate of quinine
dissolved in water containing a little tartaric acid, and
used this screen in the camera in place of the ground
glass. Or if he wetted the ground glass with sulphate
of quinine, it might do. If this succeeded, the horror
of Professor Stokes and others, who have made researches
on the extra violet rays, would be intense, on discover¬
ing that the phenomenon of fluorescence had been
degraded to the use of making visible the forms of the
loved immortals of the better land, and in helping to
roll open the gates of the eternal world, in order to
reveal to man some of the glories beyond.
In the course of a letter, dated 19, Leamington
Road Yillas, Westbourne Park, W., May 8th, 1872,
and sent to us for publication, Mr. Slater says :—
I visited Mr. Hudson, told him my object in calling, and after
a few preliminary remarks on both sides, he proceeded to take
a negative of me. It turned out to be a very good, clear,
sharp negative,— nothing more. I requested him to try
another, which he did, selecting indiscriminately from some
previously used and dirty glasses, one for this occasion, and
after going through the usual routine of cleaning, done in my
presence, he poured on the collodion, and placed it in the
bath. I remained in the dark room all the time the plate was
j in the bath. I saw it put into the camera frame and then into
the camera, which had been previously focussed to me, and
all that Mr. Hudson had to do was to draw up the slide and
uncover the lens. I saw the slide drawn up, and when sitting
saw the cap or cover of the camera removed—and after the
usual exposure, replaced on the lens. I then accompanied him
into the dark room, and saw the developing solution poured
on the plate; but not a vestige of anything appeared, neither
myself, nor background, but a semi-opaque film all over the
plate, as if it had been somewhat over-exposed. I then asked
for another attempt, which was carried out under precisely the
same circumstances, namely, that I witnesssed the whole pro¬
ceeding from beginning to end. I must now, in justice to the
“ Psychic force ” gentlemen, tell them that I asked mentally,
and felt what 1 asked,—that if it were possible, the spirit
of my mother could come and stand by my side, and with
me, pourtray her presence, to please do so. The result you
may or may not have seen; it is a fine female figure draped in
white, standing before me with her hand resting on my head;
the drapery nearly covers the whole of my body, leaving only
the head and one hand visible. I need not say I was as pleased
as I was astonished, and felt determined to further investigate
the matter, as I felt certain Mr. Hudson played no trick on
this occasion. Having read in the British Journal of Photo¬
graphy that the editor thought it very unlikely that he would
get any spirit pictures if he took Ms own instrument and
plates, I took the Mnt, and did as he suggested, not that I
doubted the artist or the spirits in the least. I accordingly
made a new combination of lenses, and took also a new camera
and several glass plates. I did, in Mr. Hudson’s room, all the
looking on, and I focussed the instrument to the sitter, and
obtained, in the same manner as before, a fine spirit picture.
It was again repeated with another sitter, and with like
success; collusion or trickery was altogether out of the
question. After the last attempt I felt further induced to
carry out an optical arrangement for spirit photography, and
knowing, as most scientific men do, that the invisible end of
the spectrum is the most active chemically, I resolved to ex¬
emplify to sceptics that with such an instrument as I now had
made, and would use, we could take portraits of the sitters,
although the colour of the glass was such that only in the
strongest light could the person focussing see the sitter at all.
No one was more astonished than Mr. Hudson, after seeing
me focus the instrument to a lady sitting in the chair, to find
not only a sharp, well-defined negative, with good half-tone;
but also standing by the lady was a fine spirit figure, draped
in black and wMte. The exposure was not any longer than
with the usual lenses of the same aperture and focal length :
namely, two and a half-inch lenses, with two-inch stops; the
focus from the back lens five inches.
We tried another with, if possible, better success ; the sitter
was a little cMld belonging to the lady just mentioned, and
the result was a female figure standing by the child.
I think Mr. Hudson was quite satisfied that other person’s
instruments and plates answered the purpose just as well as
his own. If he is not satisfied on that score, I am ; for not a
move nor a thing did he do to these, my oron plates, unobserved
by me. There was no room for any transparency to be placed
in the frame of the camera, nor was there any other device
used on these occasions.
There can be little doubt that the exposure is slightly
lengthened by the blue glass lens. There is no evidence
that the ordinary laws of optics are interfered with in
this matter.
ME. T. BUTTON ON SPIEIT-PHOTOGEAPHS.
One very good test-negative, which it would exceed¬
ingly perplex a photographer to make artificially under
like conditions, is that in which Mr. Blyton is sitting
on a chair, with a laughing expression on his face,
whilst, eighteen or twenty-four inches on one side of
him, is half of the same laughing face of himself look¬
ing out from behind a fold in the dress of a tall nun¬
like figure. Half the second face is hidden by the fold
in the dress. He saw this picture developed directly
after he sat for it. Mr. Herne, who was the medium,
partly spoilt this valuable negative by rubbing his
fingers over a part of it while it was wet, but fortu¬
nately he did not touch the essential parts of it. Mr.
Blyton reported to the Dalston Society the conditions
under which this negative was taken. If we assume
the use of a concealed optical arrangement to throw
upon the plate a reflected second image of Mr. Blyton’s
face, it could not envelope half of his face in a robe,
as shown in the picture.
In Mr. Hudson’s spirit photographs just as at seances
where no test medium is present, it is only on rare
occasions that a spirit known in earth life to the sitter
has proved his identity. Here is one case which we
quote from the Haclcney and Kingsland Gazette, a paper
which of late has given a fair hearing to writers on
both sides of the spiritualistic question:—
Sie,—Referring to your notice of the current number of the
Spiritualist in your issue of 24th inst., permit me to submit
the following instance in which the spirit is recognised. On
the 13th inst., I went with my brother, his wife, and a Miss
Bear to Mr. Hudson’s studio in Palmer-terrace, Holloway-road,
N., and there met Messrs. Herne and Williams, the celebrated
professional media, who kindly consented to assist in an ex¬
perimental sitting. The media having been duly placed in a
recess behind the screen forming a kind of dark cabinet, Miss
Bear seated herself directly in front of and close against the
screen. The camera was adjusted, the plate inserted, and ex¬
posed in the usual manner for about 30 to 35 seconds ; and I
then followed Mr. Hudson into his dark room to witness the
developing process, when we found on the right hand side
of Miss Bear an upright figure, shrouded, and on, her left, the
figure of a young female in a kneeling attitude, robed in a
white gown, and a dark-coloured mantle with a white cover¬
ing over the head and neck, but leaving the half profile of the
face sharply defined. Both figures appear in front of the
sitter, the robes of the shrouded figure being partly transpa-
rent, while those of the kneeling figure are opaque. There
were no individuals visible to me in the studio during the ex¬
periment except the sitter and artist. On seeing the printed
copy Miss Bear at once recognised the features of the kneeling
figure as those of a dear deceased friend, who had sat in seance
with her previous to the passing away of the spirit in ques¬
tion, and who had received most unmistakeable proofs of the
truths of spirit existence and intercourse. Miss Bear’s sister
also recognised the spirit without the slightest indecision, no
communication on the subject having previously passed be¬
tween the two sisters. The recognition cannot fairly be as¬
cribed to their imagination for the reason that the sitter
hoped, in the event of a spirit picture being obtained, to have
that of a relative; and was surprised, but pleased, at receiving
that of a well-remembered/riiswif.
Those of your readers who would like to see the above, as well as
others of like nature, can see them on application to me at
my residence. And with reference to the imitations, which I
am perfectly aware can be easily produced, I would challenge
any operator to produce similar photographs to those of Mr.
Hudson’s under the same conditions with similar results; when,
if successful, I would at once admit my error, but not until
such evidence is forthcoming.
To refute the Spiritual theory of the phenomena, our op¬
ponents should be in a position to prove how they are done,
and not how they can be imitated.—I am, Sir, yours, faithfully,
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. Thomas Blyton.
29th April, 1872.
Mr. Blyton has also sent us the following letter :—
To the Editor of “The Spiritualist."
Sie,—This afternoon I called upon Mr. Hudson, where I met
Miss Emily Kislingbury, who also had called in for some
private photographs. On our rising to depart we met Mr.
Hudson and Mr. Williams; the latter gentleman consented
to act as medium for a spirit picture for Miss Kislingbury.
We four accordingly entered the studio, where Miss Kisling¬
bury seated herself, and Mr. Williams placed himself at one
side of the studio parallel with her, while I carefully noticed
Mr. Hudson take a fresh plate, polish it, and prepare it in the
ordinary manner. I then prepared the camera, and focussed
the lens, when the prepared plate in its case was inserted and
exposed by me for about thirty-five seconds, and afterwards
the plate was removed and developed before my eyes by Mr.
Hudson. There appeared on the left hand side and partly in
front of Miss Kislingbury a most beautiful figure of a young
female, clothed in a long flowing garment drawn tightly at
the waist with a girdle, and having a small bag, or pocket,
attached on one side. The hands were raised together in an
attitude of prayer, while the face appeared to be tolerably
clearly defined, although a white wrapper covered the head,
neck, and shoulders. I venture to submit to the public this
instance of spirit photography, as I witnessed the operations
throughout, and operated to such an extent as to enable me to
testify to the camera not having been shifted or exposed a
second time for the spirit appearance. I also examined a
negative picture of Mr. Williams’s, also taken this afternoon,
where a table is distinctly seen unsupported in the air, and a
spirit appearance is also clearly shown underneath, but not in
contact with it. Mr. Williams’s hands are flat in front of him,
while his face is upturned as if watching the ascent of the
table. He states that, prior to the cap of the lens being re¬
moved, the table at which be was sitting slid from under his
, hands, which were resting lightly upon it, and then ascended
into the air, much to his astonishment, and remained balanced
in mid-air while the plate was exposed in the camera. Mr.
Hudson also testified to witnessing the ascent of the table.
Thomas Bltton.
Lime Cottage, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
9th May, 1872.
ME. BENJAMIN COLEMAN ON SPIEIT PHOTOGEAPHS.
We have received for publication the following ex¬
tract from a letter addressed by Mr. Benjamin Cole¬
man, of 1, Bernard Yillas, Upper Norwood, to an
invalid friend of his who resides in Gloucestershire;—
You of course recollect the American spirit photograph con-
trovery which ended in the trial and acquittal of Mumler, the-
artist, who continues to take them to the present time, and in
very many cases—not all—he certainly does obtain recognis¬
able likenesses of departed friends.
Within a few weeks past Hudson, a photographer, living at
Holloway, who knows litle or nothing of Spiritualism, has been
getting (through the influence of recognised mediums) spirit
figures. Unlike the American, they are not shadowy, but re¬
flect an object apparently more substantial than the sitter.
The enclosed carte of me is a specimen. Strange to say the
ghost figure is in almost every instance muffled up in elaborate-
drapery, and the features so far hidden as to make it very
difficult to trace a resemblance to anyone. These two points
in the photographs make them highly unsatisfactory, and
awaken very natural suspicions as to their genuineness. They-
38
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 15,1872.
are condemned, accordingly, by the majority, and several ways
are, of course, suggested to show how easily the assumed im¬
posture is managed. But you may take it from me that what¬
ever the meaning may be for coming in such suspicious shape,
there is no imposture in the case.
I was allowed to do what I pleased to guard against decep¬
tion in my own carte, and I was permitted to overlook and to
scrutinise the whole process in another case.
We naturally ask ourselves what is the meaning of it?
Why appear in such suspicious and questionable shape ? And
for the present we must be content to say, “ We don’t know!’’
But by being patient we shall no doubt discover sooner or
later that there was some wisdom in the strangeness of the
manifestations. Perhaps it may be to correct our erroneous
impression that spirit is less tangible, less real than matter ;
and as the only figure I have seen with the face uncovered is
one which stands by the side of Mr. Herne, the well-known
medium, and is his exact counterpart, some light may be
thrown by these ghostly figures on the theory of the
“ double.”
I don’t, however, ask you to put any faith in my speculative
thoughts as to the why and wherefore ; but I do in my ordi¬
nary powers of observation, and my common sense judgment
in matters of fact, and I again say that the spirit photographs
in question are not produced in the way it is suggested they
might be, to impose upon the over-credulous, but that they
are realities—they are genuine.
About twenty per cent., perhaps, of the pictures, as
yet taken, have contained unveiled spirit faces, and the
instances in which those faces have been recognised as
deceased friends of the sitter have been very rare up
to the present time. But the power is evidently de¬
veloping', and the pictures are gradually growing more
striking in several respects.
ME. W. HAEKISON OE" SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS.
Mr. Harrison says:
I have been five or six times to Mr. Hudson’s, and went on
the first occasion with Mrs. Guppy, when I had a picture
taken. Mrs. Guppy kindly acted as medium and went behind
the black shawl, then used as a screen. The back of the iron
head-rest pressed back the shawl at one place, causing large
curved creases in the shawl, which show in the finished
picture. When the plate was developed, a hand and an arm
in a black sleeve appeared over my head. Any photographer
not present would, as Mrs. Guppy and myself remarked at
the time, say that it was a human arm in a black sleeve pushed
through a hole in a black background. This, I believe, is why
the black background was abolished soon afterwards. There
was no hole available for the purpose in the shawl, which I
examined carefully ; there was one hole in it, about six inches
from the bottom, and some inches below the bottom of the
seat of my chair while the picture was being taken. It is a
genuine spirit photograph; but to a photographer who assumes
imposture, it looks more like a trick, I think, than any pic¬
ture Mr. Hudson has turned out.
Last Saturday, May 11,1 called and asked Mr. Hudson to
let me take a picture all the way through; he doing nothing
but cleaning the plate (for it may be that he has some medium-
ship, and that his handling the plate is a necessary condition),
and taking the cap off the lens while I sat. Mr. Williams was
the medium; he had sat for visitors five times previously that
day. I tried two plates, collodionising, sensitising, and
developing them myself; Mr. Hudson did not touch the dark
slide or camera, except to take the cap off the lens. No spirit
picture was obtained, and I had no time to stop and try a third
plate, which Mr. Hudson asked me to do.
THE PHOTOGRAPHIC JOURNALS OH SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS.
We now come to tbe attitude of the photographic
journals towards Spiritualism. The editor of the
British Journal of Photography, in a leading article
published on May 3rd, 1872, says :
The introduction of this sensation—new in this country—
requires a little more serious consideration than has yet been
given to it. It is believed in by many, half assented to by
others, and rejected with contempt by not a few. Amongst
the three groups are to be found able, and, we must believe,
honest men. The first class are “ Spiritualists,” pure and
simple, while the second are halting between two opinions,
and adopt the psychic force theory. The latter we would
simply remind that the term psychic force has no meaning
whatever when applied to these sensation photographs. It
may be confidently asserted that there is no step between
believing in one of these curiosities as a spirit photograph, and
regarding the whole matter as a delusion, or even worse.
The issue is a very narrow one and perfectly plain; we
would only guard our readers against being misled by having
the “ psychic force ” question imported into the circle. It is
quite possible to do this in the cases of so-called “ physical
manifestations,” but in the case of the photographs no such
explanation can stand. The strange photographs are, there¬
fore, if genuine, to be regarded as the most extraordinary of
all natural phenomena, surpassing all the ordinary spiritualistic
manifestations, and, in consequence, we should be extremely
jealous of admitting them to be genuine until they shall have
been subjected to the most careful examination, and their mode
of production very closely scrutinised.
Since we announced that facilities were to be placed at our
disposal for having this subject thoroughly probed to the very
bottom, so far as that is possible, we have had numerous com¬
munications on the subject from both Spirituahsts and Anti¬
spiritualists. Many of the former display more scepticism on
the subject of the reality of the spirit photographs than might
have been expected, and they only ask that the report shall be
given with fairness and without bias either way, even if it
should be entirely condemnatory of what several of them ex¬
press a wish should be found true. This is precisely what we
intend doing. Mr. Guppy has, at considerable expense,
afforded us every facility at his disposal for carrying out our
intention of seeing all that can be seen, for which we thank
him; and all our trials are to be conducted with our own
camera and chemicals and with new plates. When we add that
the sensitive plate, or at least the dark frame containing it,
shall be under our own eyes from the time when the collodion
is applied till the appearance of the image by the action of the
developer, we think that it will be admitted that the force of
precaution “ can no farther go.” We expect to be able to pre¬
sent our report in three or four weeks, and in that report we
shall detail every incident encountered in the course of our
prying into the domain of the invisible.
Trivial as the question may appear to many, we think it is
fraught with deep importance, since the genuineness of a spirit
photograph would be conclusive of the reality of Spiritualism,
and almost oblige us to accept its peculiar teaching. We
therefore ask that any judgment on a question of such im¬
portance shall be suspended until the whole matter shall have
been examined with the requisite care by ourselves or other
persons competent to deal with such an investigation.
The editor of the Photographic News, of April 19th,
in a leading article, headed “Alleged Spirit Photo¬
graphs,” says:—
About ten years ago a strange announcement was made in
America, to the effect that a photographer in New York,
named Muraler, produced something he called spirit photo¬
graphs. Mumler was said to be a medium, and in taking the
card portraits of his sitters, shadowy images of other figures
were found on the background of the same plate. As the pro¬
duction of such results is very easily effected by a variety of
methods, as every photographer knows, the circumstance ex¬
cited less surprise amongst photographers than amongst the
outside world, by whom it was regarded as a very singular and
startling fact. In the course of a legal investigation, which
eventually issued, nothing specific of tbe nature of the impos¬
ture was proved, and believers in the phenomena of what is
termed Spiritualism, accepted photographs as additional evi-
! dence of the reality of the abnormal manifestations upon
which their faith rests. Discussion or comment of the subject
of Spiritualism would, of course, be quite out of place here.
From the number of names distinguished in the world of in¬
tellect to be found amongst those endorsing its claims we con¬
ceive that it must rest upon evidences of a very different
character to the spirit photographs issued at the time to which
we refer in America. They were, on the face of them, in our
estimation, vulgar and common-place impostures ; while flat,
smudgy patches, with no trace of a feature, were issued as un¬
questionable likenesses of departed spirits. The subject is
associated with issues too sacred to permit such things to have
even a ludicrous aspect; but tbe spirit photographs which
came under our attention were in every way contemptible.
The editor of the Photographic News then quotes
the facts connected with the production of Mr.
Hudson’s photographs from The Spiritualist, after
which he says:—
A few days ago we called at the surburban studio in question,
with a view to make some inquiries. We sent in our card to
Mr. Hudson, and were informed that he was then engaged in
taking spirit photographs, Mrs. Guppy, Mr. Williams, and Mf.
Herne all being present. We at once said that this was the
special subject of our visit, and felt ourselves fortunate in
calling at a time when all the conditions of investigation were
present. We were requested to take a seat in the specimen
room, where we remained waiting for upwards of an hour,
until some time after we had seen Mrs. Guppy had taken her
departure. It had occurred to us that if investigation were
desired, the occasion was as favourable to the photographer as
to the journalist; no such facilities for observation were, how¬
ever, offered to us, and at the expiry of about an hour and a
half we left.
In the specimen room we saw only two of the alleged spirit
photographs. Of these, speaking from the evidence they
themselves present—the only evidence we have—we are bound
to say they were not such unmeaning smudges as the American
specimens; but we are equally bound to say that they pos¬
sessed no quality which suggested any abnormal origin. One
is simply a single figure, with outstretched arm, totally en¬
veloped in white drapery of a light texture, something like
crumpled muslin. The other consisted of the portrait of a
lady kneeling beside a little child; behind both is a tall figure
clothed in trailing white garments of a similar texture to the
drapery in the other figure; the face, which was also partially
covered with the drapery, was much darker in colour, being
apparently much under-exposed, and the detail scarcely made
out from imperfect illumination. Criticising the photographs
on their own evidence, one is struck by the conformity of the
draping of the figures to that of the traditional ghost of
romance, the trailing white garments suggested, we presume,
by the last sad toilet given to the bodily tenement of the de¬
parted spirit. It is further noteworthy that in these examples
the traditional transparency of ghostly apparitions is not pre¬
served, the alleged spirits being solid enough to give images
like material substances. They are decidedly not as shadowy
and unsubstantial as the images in various confessed sham
ghost photographs, some of which we have seen are decidedly
effective.
We have briefly described such of the alleged spirit photo¬
graphs as we have seen, and we offer no comment whatever on
the alleged mode of production, as we personally have no
evidence whatever on the subject. So far as we could learn, it
is giving a satisfactory fillip to the prospects of the photo¬
grapher, who, like many others, had felt the serious effects of
a protracted and dull winter. One lady, who had been sitting
for a spirit photograph, paid thirty-six shillings for thirty-six
cards whilst we were present. She informed us that she had
been most successful in securing a spirit form in combina¬
tion with her own portrait, as had also her daughter. The
lady was bright, cheerful, and kindly, a fine type of an English
matron, without a trace of any of the physical conditions
which not unfrequently characterise tendencies to superstition
or credulity, and she told us, with a simple good faith beyond
challenge, of the spiritual intimations or instructions which
had induced her to come from another county on the day in
question to sit for spirit photographs, and with such success.
If further photographic developments of this question come
under our attention we shall, of course, place them before our
readers.
The editor of the Photographic News should do as
the editor of the British Journal of Photography did,
write to Mr. Gruppy or Mr. Hudson, and ask for those
facilities for observation which he desires. From his
account it appears that when he called, the photo¬
graphic room was occupied by sitters and others, there
by previous appointment. Mr. Hudson, we think,
ought to have absented himself for a few minutes to
confer with an editor who showed sufficient love of
truth to call for the purpose of investigating. Mrs.
Gruppy—so she tells us—did not know he was there.
If she had known it, it is mostly likely she would not
have seen a stranger to her. We should like to hear
that the editors of the two photographic journals are
carrying on their investigations together, though they
cannot give us information not already obtained by
the skilled observers first in the field. The editors of
both the journals have approached this unpopular sub¬
ject in a very truthful spirit.
CONDITIONS OP OBTAINING SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS.
Up to the present time spirit photographs have been
obtained at Mr. Hudson’s through the influence of six
or seven different media, including Mrs. Guppy, Mr.
Herne, Mr. Williams, and Mrs. Mary Marshall. The
medium sits either behind the background, out of
sight, or on one side of the sitter out of the field of
view covered by the lens. Sometimes Messrs. Herne
and Williams have been entranced at the time, but
mostly they have been awake. The other mediums
have not been entranced at the time. Whether Mr.
Hudson has any mediumship in the matter, we do not
know, but rather suspect that he has, as we have
heard of several trials off his premises with some of
the afore-mentioned media, which were altogether
unsuccessful; still, this is a point not fully investi¬
gated. Mr. Hudson does not know whether he has
any mediumship, but his sisters, while sitting at a
table, have obtained raps. If the presence of Mr.
Hudson is necessary, as well as the presence of
another medium, it will be an analagous case to that
of Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Hall, who together could get
planchette writing, and separately could get none. We
have several times met with cases where two persons
together can get manifestations, but separately can get
nothing; the union of the two is required to form “ a
medium.”
Sitting for spirit photographs exhausts the media,
just like other manifestations. With Mrs. Guppy, after
one, two, or perhaps three, have been obtained, the
power usually fails; half an hour’s walk in the open
air, and a little to eat and drink brings it back again.
It is the same with the other mediums, and sitters
should know this ; a little attention to these conditions
would prevent many failures.
Mr. Hudson has not yet seen a spirit in the camera
or out of it, but he says that once in focussing he saw
a luminous haze near the sitter. Mr. Mumler, who
has had such lengthened experience in America in spirit
photography, testifies:—
As many persons write to me desiring the likeness of some
particular spirit, it would perhaps be well for me to say that
it is not in my power to give the likeness of any spirit, as their
coming, or abstaining from coming, is not subject to my voli¬
tion, and is entirely beyond my control. I simply act as a
medium for preparing and developing the negative, and I
have not the slightest knowledge if I have a spirit-form on the
plate until I see it developed. This has been my experience
since I have been taking these pictures—now some twelve
years—with two or three exceptions, in which cases the spirits
have been able to so materialise themselves that I have seen
their image reflected in the camera.—Spiritual Magazine,
May, 1872.
RECOGNISED LIKENESSES OE DECEASED PERSONS.
Some light now begins^ to dawn upon the subject of
the clothes worn by spirits. Mr. Herne discovered and
told us that the same gauze-like fabrics are seen in
several of Mr. Hudson’s pictures, and that, except in the
matter of transparency, they much resemble the calico
curtains of his studio. It seems as if the spirits take
something out of fabrics in the room; that this “ some¬
thing ” to them is material, at all events is material
enough to be photographed. The following is an extract
from a very interesting letter on this subject, dated
May 9th, 1872, and written to us by a gentleman well
known and respected among leading Spiritualists,
namely, Mr. B. W. Bycock, of Brooks’s Hotel, 33,
Surrey-street, Strand, W.C.
On Sunday, the 28th April, Mr. Herne gave me a sitting
at his house, when the voice of John King was more than
usually communicative ; the subject was Spirit Photography.
He said :—“ If I would go the Wednesday following to Mr.
Hudson’s with the medium, and take the piece of green silk
I had at my house, he would try his best to bring my mother
and envelope her in it.”
I could not possibly keep that appointment, although I was
excited about my inability, from his knowing about the silk, as I
had not mentioned the possession of such a material to any
one at Lamb’s Conduit-street; but I resolved, if the following
Saturday John repeated the engagement, to keep it. He gave
me that assurance and before starting Mr. Williams called at
my house. I told him my errand, and he went with me to Mr.
Hudson’s. The weather was blustering and rainy, and I
thought unpropitious for a picture, but evidently John had
made all arrangements. We found Mr. Hudson free
from engagements, and on entering the studio, John’s
voice saluted me with, “ Glad to see you, Ben.” It startled,
but pleased me. I sat at once, having thrown the silk (about
five yards in length) carelessly on the floor. A few seconds
completed the sitting; I entered the dark room to see the
plate developed, when John tapped me so strongly and audibly
on the elbow, that both the others heard the tapping, and he
said, “ I promised you I’d do my best, but you must sit again
and look to the left, instead of the right, and it would be
better.” In the meantime the picture developed, and to my
delight and surprise the face of my mother revealed it¬
self enveloped in the silk. Mr. Hudson said the picture had a
clear distinctness he had never seen before. Before sitting
again, I told John I objected to sit looking to the left for rea¬
sons, but he insisted and I obeyed. The second picture was
more wonderful than the first; the spirit was not my mother,
but one equally well-known to me. It was the more surprising,
for she had not entered my thoughts while there.
I must tell you that while in the dark room developing the
first picture, and the sitting room quite vacated, the piece of
THE SPIRITUALIST.
39
May 15, 1872.
new silk was packed and stowed away in my wet umbrella,
which I had left in a comer of the room.
The silk was used in the second picture as it had been in
the first.
On returning to Lamb’s Conduit-street, I sat at a dark
seance again for a short time with Mr. Williams, when John
desired I should take Miss Betsey; he would tell me when,
and she was to provide herself with some new calico or muslin ;
he then bade me “ Look !” There were several bright lights
moving round the room, and I saw my mother’s eyes near me,
and, as it were fingers trying to produce more light. He then
said he had much to do, and must go, bidding us good night in
the usual way.
I went down stairs, hoping to see you, but finding you had
already gone, send you these facts. If they can serve the
cause, pray gather such as you may choose and use them ; for
myself it has astonished me more than any of my previous
experiences, and I feel grateful for the great progress these
manifestations will make in convincing the sceptic.
We have examined these pictures. In the first one,
only half the face is uncovered, but enough, so Mr.
Pycock says, to enable him to recognise his mother.
In the second the "whole face of the spirit, with well-
marked features, comes out most distinctly, so as to be
palpably a clear likeness of somebody; and as Mr.
Pycock recognises it without hesitation, we look upon
this as the most valuable picture we have yet seen at
Mr. Hudson’s.
Mr. Pycock says that while the photographs were
being taken the silk was on the floor in front of him by
his feet; the only time he lost sight of it was when
they all went into the dark room to see the plate
developed; when they came out again, the silk was
found stuffed into his wet umbrella. The drapery about
the spirits “ hangs ” like silk, and looks difierent to the
drapery in the other spirit pictures.
Here is another good piece of testimony :—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sib,—Dr. Charles Cutmore, of Sussex House, Church-road,
Upper Norwood, has given me the following account of how
spirit photographs of his wife’s mother and his own son were
obtained some short time since. As he has given me liberty
to publish the same, I send it you.
On Monday, the 15th April, Miss Cutmore, who is a very
excellent normal clairvoyant, saw her maternal grandmother
in the spiritual world, who requested her to tell her mother to
take her to Mr. Hudson’s on the following Thursday; for she
had arranged to give them photographs of herself and of her
grandson (Miss Cutmore’s brother, aged about twenty-one
years when he departed this life). No circumstances were to
prevent their visit on the day named.
The day arrived. Mrs. Cutmore and her daughter went to
Mr. Hudson’s, and there unexpectedly met Mrs. Guppy, who,
after a few friendly words had passed between them, with her
usual kindliness of heart, offered to act as “ medium ” for
Mrs. Cutmore’s friends. Mrs. Cutmore then “ sat,” and on
the plate, by the side of her own likeness, appeared the figure
of a handsome lady enveloped in a flowing robe, but with the
face uncovered, and the features distinct and clear ; so distinct,
that mother and daughter recognised it as a good likeness of
Mrs. Cutmore’s mamma (the lady who had given her grand¬
daughter the instructions to visit Mr. Hudson’s studio): she
has been a resident in the spirit-world now about seven years.
Miss Cutmore then “ sat,” and upon her plate the figure of a
well-fajaned young man appeared, whose features, however,
were not distinguishable.
The foregoing is the more interesting, in consequence of the
whole of the arrangements having been made in the spirit-
world by their friends there; for neither Mrs. Cutmore, her
daughter, nor Dr. Cutmore knew anything of either Mr. Hud¬
son or Mrs. Guppy, except what they had read of them in the
spiritual papers.
Dr. Cutmore, with the permission of his wife, sent me a
copy of each photograph, and I can personally add my testi¬
mony as to the clearly-defined features of Mrs. Cutmore’s
mamma. C. W. Peabce.
6, Cambridge-road, Kilburn, N.W.
MR. JOHN JONES ON SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS.
Mr. John Jones has sent us a letter, which we cannot
print in full, because he makes some serious asser¬
tions without giving the evidence on which they are
"based. He is now very sceptical about spirit photo¬
graphs. He says:—
Sir,—I desire to correct an error that appears in the narra¬
tive I gave in the April Spiritualist. The likeness was not
my daughter Marion, as my son thought at the moment of the
development of the picture on the glass, nor that of any mem¬
ber of my family.
####**
That ghosts can be photographed, I firmly believe, but as I
in a note to Mr. Hudson stated, “ No ordinary Spiritualist will
now be satisfied with less than an actual portrait of a deceased
relative or friend.” JOHN Jones.
Enmore-park, S.E.
If a gentleman refused to come to one of Mr. Jones’s
spirit circles unless Mr. Jones guaranteed that at that
particular sitting he (the visitor) should have a com¬
munication from a deceased friend, Mr. Jones knows he
could not give such a guarantee. Why then impose on
Mr. Hudson terms he would not submit to'himself?
As only one eye and a bit of the nose is visible in the
Marion picture, how is it that Mr. Jones and Master
Jones are able to decide the question of identity with
absolute certainty, and to decide differently? Mr.
Hudson’s photographs, we agree, must be rigorously
examined, but, as some are certainly genuine, we have
no right to give any verdict about the others without
evidence.
In some of the photographs the spirit forms are
graceful and elegant, in others they are strange, fan¬
tastic, and in some instances ludicrous. Miss Houghton
has one very beautiful picture, in which a spirit, who
somewhat resembles Katie King the younger, but is not
she, stands with closed eyes near Miss Houghton’s up¬
raised hand. Strangers, who have not s een the pictures,
yet wish to get the most remarkable, could not do
better than to obtain of Mr. Hudson single copies of
those pictures in which the faces and features of the
spirits are distinctly visible. Many of the pictures, in
which the figures are draped, head and all, seem to be
very unmeaning at present; some of these are wild and
fantastic, and Mrs. Berry has a remarkable one of this
nature.
Mr. Hudson’s studio faces the north instead of the
south, so that he is troubled with sunlight falling on
the background ; the dark room has cracks which let in
diffused light, and in hot weather he is impeded by
stains and marks on negatives. We have heard many
complaints of his delays in the execution of orders, of
letters unanswered, and so on. Photographs have been
sold to the public, which the sitters had desired should
not be so sold, and several negatives of which copies
were wanted have been broken. It is to be hoped that
all this is due merely to sudden pressure of work, and
that a better system will do away with the many
causes of complaint. Mr. Hudson should refuse to take
any spirit picture except upon plates marked by the
sitter, and should invite friends of the sitters into the
dark room to see all the manipulations. As Spiritual¬
ists, we can necessarily only recognise as genuine those
pictures which can be proved to be so, and Mr. Hudson,
by doing as we have suggested, can prove that some of
the pictures which it is possible to imitate, were, in his
case, taken under test conditions. If he sells a certain
proportion of real spirit pictures, which look like sham
ones, and does not take the trouble to adopt means to
prove their genuine character, the less Spiritualists have
to do with his establishment the better.
With reference to those of the pictures which are
undoubtedly genuine, how is it that the same mediums
do not appear to be able to get them with other photo¬
graphers ? Has Mr. Hudson been the real medium all
along? and when our known mediums were recruiting
their powers with short walks in the fresh air, was it
in reality Mr. Hudson whose powers had the benefit
of the short rest ?
MR. CROOKES AND THE ROYAL SOCIETY.
The Daily Telegraph of April 22nd, contained some
letters which have passed between Mr. Crookes, Dr.
Carpenter, Professor Stokes, and- Sir Charles Wheat¬
stone, about the false account of Mr. Crookes’s last
paper to the Royal Society, which Dr. Carpenter gave
to the Chelsea Scientific Institution. Professor Stokes
said in effect that he did not know what he had said
‘to Dr. Carpenter, but that the latter had made some
mistake. Sir Charles Wheatstone neither denies nor
admits that he furnished Dr. Carpenter with the false
information, hut attempts to justify the untruths by
quoting some other writings of Mr. Crookes’s. Mr.
Crookes points out that the other writings in question
have nothing to do with the paper about which the
misrepresentations had been made, and that even then
Sir Charles Wheatstone had only quoted from those
other writings little bits to suit his purpose, and left
out certain other sentences linking together the parts
he quoted. The sentences thus omitted, would if
quoted, have shown that Sir Charles Wheatstone’s
animadversions had no justifiable foundation.
The following letters have passed between Mr.
Crookes and the Royal Society:—■
To the President and Council op the Royal Society.
20, Momington-road, N.W., March 30th, 1872.
Gentlemen,—I heg to bring to your notice the fact that on
two recent occasions the secret proceedings of your council
have been made public, contrary to the honourable and salu¬
tary practice which has hitherto prevailed.
In an article in the Quarterly Review (No. 262, p. 343), under¬
stood to be written by Dr. W. B. Carpenter, F.R.S., the re¬
viewer says:—
“For this discovery he [i.e., myself] was rewarded by the Fellowship of
the Royal Society; but we speak advisedly when we say that this distinc¬
tion was conferred on him with considerable hesitation, the ability he dis¬
played in the investigation being purely technical.”
No one, it is clear, has a right to reveal what takes place in
the private deliberations of the council. In the discussions
about the eligibility of the various candidates for the Fellow¬
ship there must necessarily be a comparison of claims, a full
consideration of the merits of each individual; not only must
a man’s intellectual powers be canvassed, but his moral and
social character must be discussed. If, however, these discus¬
sions are afterwards to be revealed sjadi published, no man’s
character, after his name has been put in nomination for the
Royal Society, will be safe from charges founded on hearsay
and imperfect evidence.
Again, on Friday, January 19th, 1872, Dr. Carpenter, in a
Lecture at the Vestry Hall, Chelsea, speaking of a paper which
has recently come before you, stated that—
“Mr. Crookes’s second paper came before the Council [of the Royal
Society] a month ago, and a committee of two was appointed to examine
it. They gave in their report yesterday [Jan. 18th, 1872], and it was unani¬
mously resolved that the paper be returned to him, as, in the opinion of the
Royal Society, it was good for nothing.”
Dr. Carpenter is not a member of your council; what he
states must, therefore, if true, be the result of hearsay; and
when the rejected paper was returned to me on January 18th,
it was unaccompanied by any remarks tending to confirm the
opinion attributed by Dr. Carpenter to the Royal Society.
I repeat, that if the private deliberations of the council of
the Royal Society are to be made public in this informal and
irresponsible manner, the character and scientific status of
every member of the society will be at the mercy of any
lecturer who may proclaim that he is in the secret of your
deliberations.
That the worth of each paper treating of new and exciting
topics should be the subject of minute and even personal dis¬
cussion is from the nature of the case inevitable; but if por¬
tions of those discussions separated from the accompanying
and modifying circumstances are to be published on no better
authority than the perverted statement of one who pretends
he has had reported to him the substance of the controversy,
members of the Council will either withhold the free expression
of their opinions, or their deliberations will go forth to the
world distorted with the prejudices of invidious talkers.
Therefore, I respectfully beg the Council of the Royal Society
will so deal with this matter as to deter, for the future, any
Fellow from betraying and publishing deliberations which
ought to be held inviolate.
I am, Gentlemen, your obedient servant,
William Cbookes.
The Royal Society, Burlington House, London, W.
April 18,1872.
Dear Sib,—Your letter of March 30th to the President and
Council of the Royal Society was laid before them at their
meeting held to-day. They passed the following resolutions:—
“Resolved—(1.) That the President and Council regret that .the statements
in question should have been published, both because they are incor¬
rect in point of fact, and because the unauthorised publication of the
deliberations of the Council is contrary to the usage of the Society.
“ (2.) That the above Resolution be communicated to Mr. Crookes.”
I am, dear Sir, yours faithfully,
G. G. Stokes, Sec., R. S.
Wm. Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
AMONG THE SWEDENBORGIANS.
NUMBER FOUR.
The services at the new Swedenborgian Chapel in the Mall,
Kensington, have been carried on regularly since its opening.
On Sunday evening the 5th of May, the Rev. Dr. Bayley, of
whom mention has been made in these pages before, occupied
the pulpit. His subject was a comparison of the state of
heavenly and earthly existence, and how the one was essen¬
tially the standard of the other. Heaven, he said, ought not
to be a state unknown to us ; its essential principle was order,
and in the individual a receptive condition for the influence
of God’s spirit. If such were the case with everything on
earth, it would be heaven even here. There would prevail
humility and love to the neighbour, which do not imply a
thoughtless or lavish handing over of so many goods, but an
exercise of justice and right towards every fellow creature.
Nevertheless, he added, the state in both earth and heaven is
and remains a progressive one. The better the man the more
he approaches a state where more light will be granted him
to take him higher and higher. Christ very aptly asked those
who wanted to see the Father, “if his presence among them had
not convinced them of the presence of the Father ?” Even so
heaven is not a strange or vague notion; we all know and
feel its nearness at times and rejoice, and when it removes
from us we have reason to repent, to turn, and to walk again
in the ways called heavenly.
The new building, which is known as Palace Garden Church,
was on Wednesday, March 20th, formally dedicated to divine
worship according to the principles of the New Jerusalem
Church. A considerable sum having been given by one person
towards acquiring the property, and, to some extent endowing
it, the Swedenborgians have thus gained a footing at Kensing¬
ton. The Rev. Dr. Bayley conducted the consecra¬
tion service of what will be in future his church es¬
pecially, although his services are not altogether lost. to
the Argyle-square congregation where, after many years
of labour, he is much esteemed and beloved. Of all on
the long list of Swedenborgian preachers, he is, perhaps,
the only one fit for and willing to undertake the task before
him, that of convincing a new neighbourhood of the superior
enlightenment to be derived from Swedenborg’s views of reli¬
gious life, of the existence of a spiritual world, and of the
veracity of the great seer’s statements concerning that world.
The novel feature noticed in the consecration service was
the simple ceremony of placing a copy of the Bible open upon
the altar, according to the liturgy,—“ In token of the revela¬
tion at this day made of its spiritual sense, and as a sign
that the doctrines to be taught in the church about to be con¬
secrated are derived from the truths of the Word opened and
understood.” The service, accompanied by hymns and readings,
was followed by the indispensable tea meeting, after which
the London New Church Association held their second general
meeting under the presidency of the Rev. E. Austin. The sub¬
ject on which addresses were to he delivered was, “ The
Spiritual Aspect of the Times.” The several speeches were
agreeably interspersed with selections of somewhat hackneyed
music.
Dr. Bayley remarked, in answer to the motion, that there
is ample provision made in the West End for church-goers, that-
truth ought not to be confined to any one legal body as if it
were their sole right and and possession. Dr. Tafel spoke
about the progress achieved in Germany. Recently a paper
had appeared there under the title, Wochenschrift der Neuen
Kirche, and it was the object by means of this publication to
promulgate the views held by them. On the application of a
body of men at Vienna, who formed the nucleus of a new
church, to a minister of state, for the grant of the necessary
permission to establish the sect in the capital of Austria, an
encouraging answer was said to have befen received, inasmuch
as that minister asked the deputation “ to increase the num¬
ber of believers, and then call again.” Other speakers pointed
out how from small beginnings the movement had sprung and
expanded, how instead of one or two places of meeting, there
were nearly a dozen in London, many more in the country,
and a larger number still in the United States. The Presi¬
dent thought the term “ Swedenborgians’’was not exactly
accurate in its application to them as a body ; he suggested
“ Christians of the New Jerusalem Church,” which would
hardly seem an improvement on the shorter and more explicit
designation. The services at the new church in the Mall, near
Notting-hill-gate Station, are henceforth held on Sundays; in
the morning commencing at eleven, and in the evening at half¬
past six.
The last number of the Westminster Review has an article
strongly in favour of Spiritualism.
Professor Pepper’s entertainment about “Spiritual
Manifestations ” has failed, and it is withdrawn from his pro¬
gramme. Non-spiritualists saw that no sane mortal could
ever mistake his experiments for the work of spirits, although
he had the advantage of “ manifesting ’’ on his own premises,
and at a distance from the observers. So many also among
the listeners were found to believe in Spiritualism, that we
are told that he and Mr. Tobin were beset by remonstrances
at the close of every lecture.
40
THE SPIRITUALIST
Mat 15, 1872.
FACTS FOB. NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, mat- it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Bach individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. C. F. Yarley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. C. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr. Home.
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances.
Mrs. De Morgan has written a book, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Mr C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S., the Atlantic
Cable Electrician, has testified that Spiritual
phenomena are produced by disembodied spirits.
Mr. John Bright, M.P., testified to Mr. J. M.
Peebles, late American Consul at Trebizond, that
he had seen some of the phenomena, and they
appeared to be produced by spirits, though he was
not sure on the point.
' Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist., Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by that theory. Hare at once,
like’a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book- recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
hearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Mr. W. Grookes, F.R.S. (editor of The Quarterly
Journal of Science), Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Mr.
William Huggins (Vice-president of the Royal
Society), have certified that certain of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism are real. A scientific
committee of professional gentlemen, appointed by
the Dialectical Society, came to the same conclusion
after two years investigation ; their official report
is printed in No. 26 of The Spiritualist.
A work entitled The Booh of Nature, by C. 0.
Groom Napier, F.C.S. (London, John Camden '
Hotten, 1870), has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
says:—
“There is hut one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age?—No ;for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest faculties;—to .these
the author addresses himself. But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism I see a rain-cloud, if it he no
bigger than a man’s hand; it is Modern Spiritualism.”
In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is had for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits,
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is.
often a feeling like a Cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance.
L
ECTURES ON SPIRITUALISM,
By GERALD MASSEY,
At ST. GEORGE’S HALL, LANGHAM-PLACE,
LONDON.
Committee of Invitation.
Rev. Sir Wm. Dunbar, Bt.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq.,
W. Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
George Harris, Esq., F.S.A.,
Vice-President Anthropo¬
logical Institute, &c.
Rev. S. E. Bengough, M.A.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
Mrs. Berry.
Mrs. Hamilton.
H. D. Jencken, Esq., M.R.I.,
Barrister-at-Law.
N. F. Daw, Esq.
James Wason, Esq., Liver¬
pool.
Andrew Leighton, Esq.,
Liverpool.
William Tebb, Esq.
Nicholas Kilbum, Jun.,
Esq., Bishop Auckland.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
A. C. Swinton, Esq.
Thomas Shorter, Esq.
J. Traill Taylor, Esq.
William White, Esq.
These lectures are not limited to any,caste or sect;
they are meant for the outcasts of many sects. v
First Lecture—SUNDAY AFTERNOON, May 12,
At Three o’clock precisely.
Subject:—“Facts of my own Personal Experience nar¬
rated and discussed, together with various Theories of
the alleged Phenomena.”
Second Lecture—SUNDAY AFTERNOON, May 19,
At Three o’clock precisely.
Subject:—“Concerning a Spirit-World revealed to the
Natural World by means of Objective Manifestations;
with a new Theory of the Tree of Knowledge of Good
and Evil.”
Third Lecture—SUNDAY AFTERNOON, May 26,
At Three o’clock precisely.
Subject:—“ The Birth, Life, Miracles, and Character of
Jesus Christ Re-viewed from a fresh Standpoint.”
Fourth Lecture—SUNDAY AFTERNOON, June 2.
At Three o’clock precisely.
Subject:—“The Natural Ascent of Man; his Spiritual
Development, and Need of Revelation now.”
Tickets for the Course.—Specially reserved seats, 10s.;
reserved seats for the course, 6s.; reserved seats, family
ticket, to admit four to the course, 12s. 6d. May be had
of the Secretary, N. F. Daw, Portman Chambers; J.
Bums, 15, Southampton-row, &c.
Prices of Admission at the Doors.—Reserved seats,
2s.; back seats, Is. Doors open for each Lecture at half¬
past two o’clock.
N. F. Daw, Secretary.
Gh H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, Lambs Conduit Street, Foundling, W.C.
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may
honour him with their patronage, they can be
supplied with clothes cut in the most fashionable manner,
good materials, and sound workmanship, at very mode¬
rate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many
years in the well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co.,
65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d.
Trousers, from    0 13 6
Vests ... ;   ;.. ... 0 7 0
Black Suit, from     3 0 0
Unrivalled Black Doe   1 1 0
Tweed Suit  2 10 0
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
British imperial insurance
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Shares of £1 Each.
Head Offices:
BROWN STREET and MARSDEN STREET,
MANCHESTER.
Chief London Offices:
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Bayford, LL.D., Senior Regis¬
trar, Court of Probate, Doctors’ Commons, London;
and Chancellor of the DioCese of Manchester.
William Gimber Goodliffe, Accountant General,
India Office, Westminster, London.
Charles Oppbnheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director
• of the Union Bank of London, Austin Friars, Old
Broad-street, London, E.G.
Christopher Wesuelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.)
Director of the Bank of England, 57£, Old Broad-
street, London, E.C.
Auditor:
Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and
Southlands, Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “ British
Imperial ” (originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c.,
&c., of Somerset House, and adopted with some modifi¬
cations by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect in
Security, Equity, and Convenience.
In Security, because every With Profit, and Self-
Insurance Policy, is issued upon English Government
Securities, held in Trust, away from the control of the
Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims,
the amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium)
being shown by the National English Life Table, com¬
piled by the Registrar-General for the Government to be
more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing
to continue the payment of his premiums, only sufficient
thereof is retained by the Corporation to profitably cover
the risk incurred upon the life during the time it was
covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned
to the Insurant. The amount returned varies according
to the Table under which the Insurance is effected,
between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is
endorsed on every Policy, and is made payable at three
days’ sight. It can also be used to its full amount, by
payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum
withdrawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN,
General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES,
Secretary.
B' RITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Offices.
BROWN-STREET AND MARSDEN-STREET,
MANCHESTER.
FIRE.
Insurances against loss or Damage by Fire may
be effected with this Corporation upon every description
of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has
been made upon the Corporation during the year pre¬
ceding, a Bonus of ten .Per cent, will be returned on
the payment of Renewed premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing
Employers against loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of
persons holding confidential and other places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the
Policies of this Corporation as security for the Poor Law
Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM-STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of
influence and standing to act for the Corporation in
unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and
BRITISH NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARAN¬
TEE) INSURANCE CORPORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Cor¬
porations can be made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief
London Offices, 20, King William Street, E.C, from
whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other infor-
mation, can be obtained.
PSYCHIC FORCE.—The proofs of the
existence of a Psychic Force are fully set forth in
the New Edition of “ SPIRITUALISM ANSWERED
BY SCIENCE,” by EDWARD W. COX, S.L, F.R.G.S.
Price Half-a-Crown. This New Edition has been re¬
written, and doubled in size.
Longman & Co., Patemoster-row.
DLLE. HUET, under Spirit-Influence
and by Mesmeric Power, treats the Sick, on
Tuesdays and Fridays, at 39, Duke-street, Grosvenor-
square, from 1 to 5 o’clock, p.m. Private Stances—
terms: one, 5s.; six, \l. 4s. The Sick are received on
the same days, free of charge, from 10 till 12 o’clock
a.m., at 78, Edgware-road.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, MEDICAL
AND BUSINESS CLAIRVOYANTE AND
TEST-MEDIUM, from America, can be consulted daily
at 24, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.C. Hours from
10 till 8. Terms, 21s.
SPIRITUAL SEANCES are held every
kj Friday evening, at 15, Southampton-row, Holbom,
W.C, at eight o’clock. Mr. J. J. Morse, Medium. Ad¬
mission One Shilling.
Printers of
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS,. holborn, w.c.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descrip¬
tions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application
THOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY
JL OF ANOTHER WORLD. An Enlarged English
Copyright Edition.- Post 8vo. Pp. xx—392. Cloth
7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN
THIS WORLD AND THE NEXT.—By Robert
Dale. Owen, Author of ■’ Footfalls on the Boundary of
another World.” 1 vol. crown 8vo. cloth. Price 9s.
Now Ready, Crown 8vo, pp. viii. 120, cloth, price 2s. 6d.
Hints for the evidences of
SPIRITUALISM.” By M. P.
London: Triibner and Co, 8 and 60, Paternoster-row.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
Heaven opened.—part ii. being
further descriptions of, and advanced teachings
from, the Spirit Land. Given through the' mediumship
of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the Scripture
proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11,
Ave-Maria lane, E.C, or F. J. T, 21, East Ascent,
St. Leonards-on-Sea.
Also Part I, price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
Now Ready 4th Edition. 8vo. cloth, pp. 360. Price 3s. 6d
THE “ ALPHA,” or the first principle
of the Human Mind: a Revelation, but no Mystery.
By Ed. N. Dennys. With Spiritual Advent and steel
engraving of Author.
“ We can call to mind few books fit to be its felloV.”—
Athenseum.
“ It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and logic,
than any work we have ever read; it is a new revelation,
and one of the most remarkable productions ever given
to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
“ The ‘ Alpha ’ is the book of an age.”—Banner of Light
Also by the same author, “ LIFE LECTURES,” cloth
8vo. pp. 460, with steel engraving of Author, 3s. 6d.
J. BURNS, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
Just Published.
The report of the London
DIALECTICAL SOCIETY’S Committee on Spirit¬
ualism, together with a full account of the proceedings of
the Committee, the Reports and Minutes of the Experi¬
mental Sub-committees, and the evidence, pro and contra,
of the following eminent persons:—Lord Lytton, Lord
Lindsay, Lord Borthwick; the Countess de Pomar;
Professor Huxley, Professor Tyndall; Drs. W. B.
Carpenter, Chambers, Davey, Dixon, Edmunds, Kidd,
Robertson, Garth Wilkinson; Mr, Serjeant Cox;
Messrs. Edwin Arnold, Henry G. Atkinson, Lam an
Blanchard, Chevalier, Damiani, Lfjon Favre, Camille
Flammarion, Hain Friswell, D. D. Home, William
Howitt, H. D. Jencken, George Henry Lewes, Hawkins
Simpson, J. Murray Spear, T. Adolphus Trollope, Crom¬
well Varley, A. R. Wallace, W. M. Wilkinson; Mesmes.
Anna Blackwell, Hardinge, Houghton, &c., &c., &c. Price
15s. London: Longmans, Green, Reader, and Dyer.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One
Volume Demy 8vo.-, pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg: his
LIFE AND WRITINGS. By. WILLIAM
WHITE. Wherein the History, the Doctrines," and
the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin
and Condition of the Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume
is illustrated with Four, Steel Engravings, by Mr. C.
H. Jebns—I. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II.
Emanuel Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s
House, Stockholm. IV. Swedenborg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.-*-
304 pp., Svo, cloth gilt, price 5s., post free.
A LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Thomas L. Harris.
Glasgow: John Thomson, 39, John-street.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently published in the Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet form, on toned paper, with coloured wrapper
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
may be had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and are of especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject
of Spiritualism.
THE SPIRITUALIST NEWSPAPER.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—
Three shillings and sixpence for the first fifty
words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every
ten words in addition. When four or more insertions
of the same advertisement are ordered, half-a-crown for
the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and four-
penee for every ten words in addition, each insertion.
Ten initial letters or figures count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertise¬
ments, because it circulates largely among those adver¬
tisers desire to reach, and an advertisement is not lost to
view amid a mass of others. MoreovefMhe paper is not
usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters
consisting of personal opinions, for publication, are
requested not to make them more than a third of a
column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received
for papers unaccompanied by a remittance. The next
twelve copies of The Spiritualist will be posted to any
address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Contents.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will he no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to he obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, hut no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
Action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
•cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
ARON FRANKLIN, PRESERVER OF
BIRDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF
NATURE, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads, fox’s heads,
shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF En¬
quirers INTO SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Seances are held every Thursday
evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. Subscription 3s. per
quarter in advance. Thos. Blyton, Secretary, &c.
Messrs, herne and williams,
Spirit Mediums, beg to inform investigators that
they are at home daily to give private stances from 12
am. to 5 o’clock p.m. They are also open to receive
engagements for private stances in the evening, either at
home or at the residence of investigators. On Monday
and Thursday evenings, at 7.45 p.m, public stances are
given. Admission 2s. 6d. each person. Address, 61,
Lamb’s Conduit-street, Holbom, W.C.
Price 2s. 6d.
Glimpses of a brighter land.—
Showing the harmony of things Spiritual with
things Material.
* “ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good,”
—Christian Spiritualist.
*** A List of Spiritual and Mesmeric works on applica¬
tion.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
JgJPPS’S COCOA.
The Civil Service Gazette remarks—“By a thorough
knowledge of the natural laws which govern the opera¬
tions of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful applica¬
tion of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr.
Epps has provided our breakfast-tables with a delicately-
flavoured beverage which may save us many heavy
doctors’ bills.”
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverages.
Baron Kirkup on Psychic Force   ... 33
The Systematic Appearance of Spirits in London ... 33
The Royal Institution:—Dr. Rutherford on the Ner¬
vous System; Demonology ... ...   35
Mr. Gerald Massey on Spiritualism   36
Miss Florence Cook’s Mediumship   36
Correspondence :—Healing Mediumship; The Effi¬
cacy of Prayer   36
Spirit Photography:—How Sham Ghost Pictures
can be produced; Mr. T. Slater on Spirit Photo¬
graphs ; Mr. T. Blyton on Spirit Photographs; Mr.
B. Coleman on Spirit Photographs; Mr. W. Harri¬
son on Spirit Photographs; The Photographic
Journals on Spirit Photographs; The Conditions of
obtaining Spirit Photographs; Recognised Like¬
nesses of Ijeceased Persons; Mr. John Jones on
Spirit Photographs  37, 38, 39
Mr. Crookes and the Royal Society  39
Among the Swedenborgians.—IV  39
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser,
at the Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George the Martyr, London and published
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London E.C.
