AND JOURNAL
OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 157.—(Vol. VII.—No. 9.) LONDON: AITGrTJST 27j 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
New Experiments on Odlc Flames from Magnets. By William H.
Harrison     97
Spirit Teachings. No. XXXIX  ... ... ...   99
Brixton Psychological Society:—A Debate on Mesmerism   101
The British Association at Bristol    ;. 102.
A Seance with Mrs. Kate Fox Jencken • 102
The Annual National Conference of Spiritualists   ... 102
The Reincarnation Controversy. By the Duke of Leuchtenberg ... 103
Mr. Morse’s Experiences in AmericaMrs. Conant’s Departure to
the Higher Life—A Spiritualists’ “ Camp Meeting/’—Mr. Morse
among the Shakers—Social Habits of, the Americans—Strong
Class Distinctions '. * ... 103
A Medical Statement relating to Mr. Dale Owen’s Insanity   104
Sunday Services at the East End  104
Poetry:—A Man’s Word for Woman. By T. L. Harris   105
Correspondence :—Spiritualism and Vegetarianism—The Origin of
Allan Kardeo’s Spirits’ Book—Curious Experiences at a Seance—
A Dead Body Found by One 6f Dr. Hudson’s Clairvoyants  105
Provincial News:—Newcastle—Leicester  107
Spiritualism in Brussels. By J. N. T. Martheze   108
Paragraphs:—Monthly Conversazione of National Association, 102;
National Association Library, 107; Funeral of Mrs. J. H. Oonant,
107; Picnic of Spiritualists, 108; Dr. Sexton at Cavendish Rooms 108
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Mas a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
WORKS BY THOMAS LAKE HARRIS.
THE GREAT REPUBLIC: a Poem of the Sun. 6s.
THE BREATH OF GOD WITH MAN. Is. 6<L
ARCANA OF CHRISTIANITY; The Apocalypse. Vol. I. 6s. 6d.
THE MILLENNIAL AGE. 2s. 6d.
LONDON SERIES OF SERMONS. Is.
Wholesale and Retail by John Thomson, 39, John-street, Glasgow.
Sold also by Mbs. Connor, 16, Fairclough-lane, Liverpool.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tykrman,
Price Threepence. To behadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Tltulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association op Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, culled
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five shillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open ta the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 6s.
A /Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.80 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
"WILL HOLD
THEIR NEXT CONVERSAZIONE
On Wednesday, September ls<, at their Rooms, 38, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.C. Entrance in Wobum-street.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the beneflfrof
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition.
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets only, to be obtained in advance of the resident
secretary, Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
BY ALLAN KARDEO.
Translated into English by Anna Blachoell.
Price 7s. 6d. Postage 3d.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W..
Lately Published, Crown 8vo., Price 3s. 6d.,
s
ON, REMEMBER; An Essay on the Discipline of the
Soul beyond the Grave. By the Rev. John Paul, Rector of
Alban’s, Worcester.
“ Such a work will be warmly welcomed by all Spiritualists, and espe¬
cially by those who seek and find in Spiritualism a firm basis for moral
and religious teaching.”—Spiritualist, March 25th. 1875.
Published by H. K. Lewis, 136, Gower-street, London.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 27, 1875,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.O.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin B, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Flnchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Caircs-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Ed ward-street, Llverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Beigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Bev. Thos.. 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Bed-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T„ 28, Portland-place, Beading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
FBr-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Bye, S.E.
Gale, Bichard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Lonis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-stieet, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.O.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E, 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryhatn, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.U.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, O. T., M.R.C.8., 19,Nottingham-place, York-gate, Begent’s-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, Percy-cottage, Pellatt-grove, Wood-green, N.
Eogers, E., Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood,
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E. O.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, B. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
Wileon, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Alien burg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin B. Smith, Esq.,Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.I. TEmpereur de Bussie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Bassim Pacha, h Bahdje Capoussou, Con¬
stantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Peath.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.'
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect. 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.] '
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Bailway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten', 356, West Thirty-second-street, New York
U.S.A,
A. J. Riko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Bev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. O. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D.. care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Bussell-streot, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epeo Sargent, Esq-Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., II, Rue d’Anieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A
M. de Bassompierre, 285, .Chauss6e St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels,
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Edward Hope, Esq.,
74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue da
Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances, Esq., 22,
Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from i2 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings ; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
M1
■RS.WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At homb Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.O.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his Spirit Phy¬
sicians, who cure through him, in his normal state, that having been de¬
veloped by them into a powerful healing medium, and at the same time, by
a course of deep study, acquiring a practical knowledge of the philosophy
of disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to examine, treat,
and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of acute, chronic, nervous, and
organic disease of long years’ standing. Consultations and invaluable
treatment given at his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appoint¬
ment. Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily. Fee,
One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-gardens, South
Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street,
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. RkGistjsb your Letters.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational trance
SPEAKER, is at present in the United States, on a lecturing tour.
He will return to England by the 20th October next, when he will be pre¬
pared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London or the provinces.
Letters sent to annexed address will be forwarded to him in due course.
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Mrs. olive, spirit medium, 49, belmont-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private) seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
N^TICE.—MONSIEUR TdOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative iMesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily', from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
jt \mtb xi| ijp yrujrm % ptt\m nt&
VOtiUjVIE ^EYEJ^. jHUJVIBER NINE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 27th, 1878.
Cjre
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS:—Half-a-crown
for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for
every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one
word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch. Reduced terms
for extended periods.
TVie Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. J. Sol wood, 38, Great Russell-street, London; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
communications for the Literary Department should be addressed to the
Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of uThe Spiritualist'" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the branch office of
Mr. J. Selwood, 88, Great Russell-street, London, W.O., by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
, PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Varley, O.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. AlfredR. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Mr. H. G. Atkinson,
F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isbam, Bart.; Mrs: Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason: Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Herr Christian Roimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of the Life of Swedenborg);
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jenckenj M.R.I., Barris
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M. A., LLM.; Mr. 0.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Price 3s.
London Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
NEW EXPERIMENTS ON ODIC FLAMES FROM
MAGNETS.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
A short time ago Mr. Cromwell Varley, Mr. Charles
Blackburn and myself, carried on a series of careful
experiments for many months, in the attempt to
ascertain whether the luminous emanations seen rising
from magnets by mesmeric sensitives, possess any
power of acting photographically upon salts of silver
susceptible to actinic influence. If such action could
' be proved, an interesting new truth in science would
be established ; moreover, we Spiritualists would then
be able to go to the scientific world and say, “ You
have hitherto denied the reality of the emanations
from magnets revealed by Baron Reichenbach’s sensi¬
tives half a generation ago, but these flames can now
be photographed at any time by the process which is
now laid before you.”
Experimental action in this direction appeared to be
hopeful, because in Reicheniach's Magnetism, translated
by Ashburner,* the following paragraph appears upon
page 26 :—
“ To convince myself, where possible, whether it
was actually light then, and not some different kind of
appearance that was perceived by the sensitive persons,
I wished to make an experiment with the daguerreo¬
type, and to see if an impression could be produced
upon the iodized silver plate. To carry out this expe¬
riment, I invited my obliging friend, M. Karl Schuh, a
private teacher of physics in Vienna, known by his
improvements in the gas-microscope, and his skill in
daguerreotyping. He shut up an iodized plate, in
front of which an open magnet was placed, in a dark
box, and at the same time deposited another plate in
another dark case, without a magnet. After some
hours he found the former, when it had been treated
with mercurial vapour, affected by light, the other not,
but the distinction was not very strong. In order to
make it perfectly clear, he took the magnet, turned
towards an iodized plate, with extreme precautions for
keeping out every trace of light during the manipula¬
tions, of which I was a witness, and placed it in a
case in a thick bed, and left it there sixty-four hours.
Taken out in darkness and exposed to mercurial
vapour, the plate now exhibited the full effect of the
light which it had received over the entire surface.
It was clear from this, that unless other causes are
capable of affecting the photographic plate after con¬
siderable time, it, in fact, must be light, real, though
weak, and acting but slowly, which issues from the
magnet.”
Baron Reichenbach used a daguerreotype plate. In
our recent experiments we employed photographic
plates prepared by the glycerine process; these plates
are about as sensitive as the ordinary wet plates used
in the taking of portrait negatives, but are superior to
them in the circumstance that they retain their sensi-
* London: 1851, Bftilli&re.
THE SPIKITUALIST,
Aug. 27, 1875,
tiveness in cool weather for twelve hours or more,
consequently, we could expose plates to the action of
a magnet for a whole day. Reichenbach used perma¬
nent steel magnets, which would lift about ninety
pounds only; we employed an electro-magnet belong¬
ing to Mr. Cromwell Varley which would lift several
tons during the time that an electrical current was
passing through its helix. The Grove’s battery of
twelve cells generally used by us, had platinum plates
a foot in length each, so the great power of the
arrangement may be imagined; pieces of thick steel
wire—long lengths of ordinary knitting needles in
fact—became white-hot and melted when the current
from the battery was passed through them. Thus we
had the advantage over Reichenbach in the two points
of extreme sensitiveness of the photographic plates
and the incomparably greater power of the magnet
employed.
In all the experiments the plates prepared by the
glycerine process were found to work well; after they
had been kept for twelve hours they developed free
from fog, just as an ordinary wet plate would have
done immediately after exposure.
The experiments, as already stated, were exhaustively
made, and extended over several months. First of all
plates were exposed over the poles of the magnet in
darkness and at a distance of one-twentieth of an
inch, for periods varying in different cases from twenty
minutes to twelve hours. The distance from the magnet
was varied, and screens were sometimes placed between
the poles of the magnet and the plate, so that if any
general action were exerted upon the plate, patterns
would appear on it, and thus prove that it was not a
case of fogging. The result of all this was that we
obtained no action in darkness due to any influence
from the magnet.
As such an enormous magnetic power was passing
through each plate while it was close over the poles of
the magnet, it was thought that perhaps that power
might modify the action of white light upon the
sensitive film. Pictures from negatives were accord¬
ingly printed upon the films by transmitted light, while
the said films were subject to the action of the magnet,
but the magnetism did not modify the effects in the
slightest degree; this was an unexpected result, the
chemical molecules of a photographic film being in such
a sensitive state of unstable equilibrium during the
processes of exposure and development. The action of
the protosulphate of iron developer was not found to be
modified when the picture was brought out over the
poles of the magnet. In other experiments a weak,
carefully-regulated light was allowed to act upon the
plates for periods of time varying from five minutes to
six hours, while the films were over the magnet, the
amount of light being so regulated that the plates should
not be over exposed when the time was up; thus the
action of the magnetism upon the sensitive film while the
latter was under the influence of light was prolonged to
a much greater extent than in the printing of an
ordinary, transparency from a negative, but no results
due to the action of magnetism could be detected.
Thus the tendency of all these trials was to show
that the flames which Reichenbach’s sensitives observed
issuing from magnets exert no action upon ordinary
photographic films, nor am I disposed to think that
they did so in the instance of the experiments with the
daguerreotype plates already quoted. The deposit Baron
Reichenbach obtained appears to have been simply due
to the fogging of the plate; indeed the results appeared
so feeble to him at the time that he did not pursue
the experiments which, if successful, would have estab¬
lished the reality of odic flames beyond all quibble.
I am aware it may be argued that although we used
more sensitive photographic, surfaces, the conditions
were not the same as in Reichenbach’s experiments;
in the latter the assumed rays had not to pass through
a film of liquid, and all aqueous solutions cut off
certain rays which have the power of slightly acting
upon photographic films; in Reichenbach’s experiments
also a plate, of metallic silver being immediately in
contact with the sensitive surface may have modified
the results. For these and other reasons it is desirable
that some of our experiments should be repeated with
the old daguerreotype process, although the prospect
seems to be far from hopeful. So far as they go the
experiments we have completed tend to show that
Reichenbach’s idea that odic flames act upon photo¬
graphic films is an error caused by the fogging of two
daguerreotype plates. «
Although the experiments were barren in the pro¬
duction of positive results as to the existence of odic
flames, they yielded some fruit in connection with
photography. In the earlier experiments, when the
plates were developed, faint images of the poles of the
magnet appeared upon them, so it was surmised that
perhaps the od force had at length been made to pro¬
duce physical effects. To guard against error incoming
to hasty conclusions, we cut two dummy poles of the
same shape, but in wood, and obtained images of these
by exposing a plate over them under the same condi¬
tions ; thus it was evident that neither magnetism nor
od force had anything to do with the production of the
images. "What, then, was the cause of them ? Al¬
though glycerine plates keep wet for a long time, a
certain amount of evaporation goes on, and at those
parts of the plates where the film was only one-
twentieth of an inch from the large flat surfaces of the
poles of the magnet, evaporation was presumably re¬
tarded ; consequently on the application of the de¬
veloper until some deposit was thrown down, faint
images of the poles were obtained in consequence of
difference of sensitiveness of different parts of the film
caused by differences in the amount of evaporation.
Near the edges of the poles a somewhat intense deposit
was thrown down. "We found that by cutting various
patterns in a flat surface of wood, we could get images
of them by placing a plate over the surface at a short
distance from it, in the dark, and afterwards applying
a developer. These photographic results were published
in detail some time ago in the British Journal of
Photography.
On some of the plates a corona of beautifully-formed
hair-like filaments was obtained, and in further experi¬
ments to discover whether this was due to any influence
from the magnet, it was found to be caused by too
little glycerine in the preservative, so that the nitrate
of silver began to fall in microscopically small crystals
all over the plate. When the developer was then
poured on, it of course washed these crystals along the
film in various directions, thus producing the hair-like
filaments.
Mbs. and the Misses Schlettek left London for the
Continent last Wednesday. Mr. Gledstanes has returned’to
Paris. Mrs. Makdoiigall Gregory is in Sussex. Mr. Marthezo
has returned to England from the Continent, and was in London
ast Monday.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
99
Aug. 27, 1875.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XXXIX.
[Following up the investigation into the nature of the
Mosaic record with the new light which I had received, I
detected plain traces of a gradual evolution of the idea of
God, ivhich seemed to point to the conclusion that the Pen¬
tateuch was not the work of one author, but a compilation
of many legends and traditions. I inguired as to this.]
In the investigation to which you have been directed
you have arrived at correct conclusions. "We have
directed you to it in order that you may see how little
reliance is to be placed upon isolated tests taken from
books which do but embody the floating legends and
traditions of an ancient people, decipherable only by
those who had the key. We wish to insist on this
point. The amount of credence to be placed in any
statement drawn from the ancient books of your religion
depends on the nature of the book from which it is
taken, and on the specific nature of the utterance itself,
as well as on your understanding, of its true meaning.
It is possible for you to select from your oldest books
words which sublimely picture an elevated conception
of Deity. It is possible, on the other hand, to select
from other and later writings conceptions of God the
most dishonouring, the most human, the most repellent.
Such are they which represent the Pure and Holy One
as wrestling in human form with man; as discussing
with a mortal his plans for vengeance on an offending
city; as a monster of cruelty and carnage, revelling in
gore, and glutted with the blood of his enemies: yea,
even as a man who sat at the tent door of his friend
and consumed the flesh of a kid and cakes of bread.
You may select conceptions the most dissimilar, and
no separate utterance can be of more than the individual
weight judged by the rules of right reason. And even
thus it behoves you to see well that you understand
aright the hidden meaning which frequently underlies
such passages, lest you wander from truth and err
through ignorance.
Inspiration, we again say, is not different in kind in
different ages, but only in degree. The words in all
cases are the words of the inspiring spirit conveyed
through a human medium; and in proportion as the
medium is pure and elevated are the utterances trust¬
worthy and the conceptions sublime. • The plane of
knowledge of the medium is the plane of revelation
through him. And we need not say at length that in
the world’s earlier days—such as those' spoken of in
the ancient records of the Jews—that plane was low,
and those conceptions, save in rare instances, anything
but sublime.
Man has progressed in knowledge since the days
when he feigned for himself a vacillating, puny God
who repented and was grieved at the failure of his
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “ spirit teachings ” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
plans in man’s creation, and who was compelled to
undo them as a failure. If you seek for conceptions
more sublime and true, you will go to a later age, when
man had unlearned somewhat of his folly, and had
ceased to be content with a God framed after the
devices of a barbarous imagination and an undeveloped
mind. The barbarous age could grasp nothing nobler,
and accordingly nothing nobler could be revealed.
That is in accord with the universal practice, viz., that
God’s revelation is proportional to man’s mental plane.
The error has been that you have laboured to perpetuate
these foolish and crude views. They have been held
by your theologians to be of Divine inspiration, binding
for all time. This fallacy we desire utterly to uproot.
Another error even more destructive of truth is the
fable that Divine inspiration plenarily communicated
guided all the writers of all the books of your Bible
into absolute truth; and that, as God was in every
case the Author, so each individual utterance of each
scribe is of paramount as well as permanent authority.
This error we have uprooted in your mind, for you now
know that God cannot be the Author of contradictions,
nor can He have said at one time what He contradicts at
another. The light shone through a dark medium, and
was distorted in the passage.
In place of these false views we have taught you that
inspiration is the control of the inspiring spirit; of
various degrees of elevation, perfection, or reliability;
to be judged in each case by reason, and to be estimated
in precisely such manner as you would criticise and judge
works of professedly human source. You will there¬
fore accept no text as an argument. You will deal
with these ancient books as you deal with all that is
put before you. And in criticising them you will find
it necessary to deny much that has been affirmed and
believed with respect to them and their contents.
You have asked information respecting the Penta¬
teuch. It is, as we have before hinted, the compilation
by Ezra of legends and traditions which had been
orally handed down from generation to generation, and
which were collected by him to prevent their loss.
Some parts of the Pentateuch, especially the early
portions of Genesis, are mere legendary speculations
collected and arranged by the scribe. Such are the
Noachic and Abrahamic legends which exist in colla¬
teral forms in the sacred books of other peoples. Such,
in another way, are the statements of the book Deu¬
teronomy, which are the direct additions of Ezra’s day.
For the rest, the compilation was made from previous
imperfect collections made in the days of Solomon and
Josiah, themselves in turn records of previous legends
and traditions which again had a still more remote
origin. In no case were they the very words of Moses-;
nor do they embody truth, save where, in dealing with
the law, they draw their information from authentic
sources.
We shall dwell hereafter on the notion of God which
pervades the early books of your Bible. Sufficient that
we now point out that the mythical and legendary
sources from which most of them were compiled forbid
you to attribute any weight to their historical state¬
ments or moral precepts, save when they are confirmed
by reasonable evidence from other sources.
[/ found this communication to confirm my own re¬
searches. I thought I could trace the two sources—
Elohistic and Jehovistic—from ivhich the compiler drew
his information: as in the account of the creation Gen.
i., ii. 3 compared with Gen. ii. 4—Hi. 24, and in the
100
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 27, 1875.
seizure of Sarah at Gerar by Abimelech xx. compared
with xii. 10—19 and xxvi. 1—11. I inquired if I was
right.'}
What you have given is but an instance out of many.
When you recognise the fact, you vrill see evidences of
it all around you. The documents in question were
the legendary sources of the compilation of Ezra’s
scribes, Elnathan and Joiarib. They were many in
number, some compiled in the days of Saul, some even
earlier, in the days of the judges of Israel, and some in
the days of Solomon, Hezekiah, and Josiah—crystallisa¬
tions of the floating legends which had been orally
handed down. We have already pointed out to you
the true line of inspiration from Melchizedek. All
prior to that is untrustworthy: and not all, indeed,
that is recorded concerning the lives of the real reci¬
pients of spirit-guidance is accurate. But on the
whole, the channel of Divine teaching was such as we
have said.
[If this was the ivay in which the Canon of the Old
Testament was settled, I inquired how far the case ivas
the same with the Prophecies.}
The books you name were all added and arranged
from existing sources by Ezra’s authority, save and
except those which Were afterwards added—those called
by the names of Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi.
Haggai was concerned in the compilation of the book
Ezra, and he and Malachi finally completed the Old
Testament by the addition of the later books. They,
with Zechariah, were much in communion, having been
the privileged attendants of Daniel when he saw his
great vision and received his commission from Gabriel,
the Archangel of God, the Chief of the Ministering
Angels, and from Michael the Archangel, the chief of
the hosts of the Lord against the adversaries. Of a
surety Daniel the seer was a highly-favoured recipient
of Divine inspiration. The great God be thanked for
His mercy, and for the manifestation of His power.
[Js that the vision recorded in Daniel x.
That by the banks of the Hiddekel.
[The same. Then selections only were chosen from
the utterances of the prophets ?]
. Only selections, and they chiefly for some hidden
meaning which does not lie on the surface. As the
open vision was about to cease, selections were made
from the records of the past, and the canon was closed
until the days when the voice of spirit teaching should
sound again amongst men.
[You speak of Daniel as a great seer or medium. Do
you know if the gift was common?}
He was a very favoured recipient of spirit power.
Such became more rare as the spiritual age was about
to close. But men cultivated the power more then:
They valued more and knew more of spirit power and
teaching.
[Vast masses of trance addresses, visions, and the like,
such as those preserved in the Old Testament, must have
been lost ?}
Assuredly. There was no need to preserve them.
And many that were preserved are now excluded from
your Bible.
[A few days later (Nov. 16, 1873) I asked that the
promised communication about the idea of God might
be givenl}
We have already spoken in passing of the concep¬
tion of Deity in your Bible. We desire now to draw
out more clearly this fact, that the growth of the idea
of God was a gradual one : that the God of Abraham
was an inferior conception to the God of Job : that the
cardinal truth which we have ever insisted on is
manifest in your Bible even as elsewhere ; viz., that
God’s Revelation is correlative with man’s spiritual
development, and that He is revealed in proportion to
man’s capacity.
You have but to read, with this idea prominent to
your mind, the records of the lives of Abraham, Jacob,
Moses, Joshua, David, Ezekiel, Isaiah, Daniel, to see
that this is so. In early patriarchal times, God, the
Supreme, was adored under many anthropomorphic
representations. The God of Abraham, Isaac, and
Jacob was superior, in the opinion of those who wor¬
shipped him under that title, but only superior, to the
gods of their neighbours. The father of Abraham, as
you know, worshipped strange gods, i.e., gods other
than his son’s God. Nay, this was invariably the case,
each family having its own representative deity by
which its members vowed and swore. The name
given to the Supreme, Jehovah Elohim, shows you so
much as that.
Laban, too, remember, pursued and threatened
Jacob for having stolen his gods. And the same pa¬
triarch collected on one occasion the images of his
household gods, and hid them under an oak-tree.
Here you see that Jehovah was, as he was constantly
called, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob: not
the One Only God, but a family deity.
It was only when the children of Israel grew into a
nation that the idea gradually enlarged itself to that
of the national God of Moses and Joshua. Even the
great lawgiver, in his elevated conception of the
Supreme, was not entirely! emancipated from the
notion of a superior God; for he says expressly that
there is none like to Jehovah among the gods. And
many like sentiments are to be found in the recorded
sayings. Indeed in the commandments given as the
very words of the Supreme Himself, it is said that the
Israelites should have no other god before Him. Read
Joshua’s dying address, and you will see in it, too,
the notion of a Superior Deity.
It was not until the development of the nation had
so far progressed as to make these anthropomorphic
notions repulsive, that you find truer ideas of God
becoming rife. In the prophetical and poetical books
of your Bible you get far nobler conceptions of the
Deity than in the earlier portions.
This is assured. God is revealed in your Bible in
many forms. Some are noble and elevated, as the
books of Job and Daniel. Some are grovelling and
mean, as the books which are called historical. In all
you see an exemplification of the truth that God is
revealed in proportion to man’s capacity.
And it was not always a progressive revelation. As
master minds stood forth so was the God-idea chastened
and refined. It has ever been so. It was markedly
so when Jesus revealed to man His conception of the
Supreme. It is so still, as, one by one, exalted spirits
have found an aspiring soul to whom they could con¬
vey noble ideas of the Great Father, and through
them shed forth a brighter beam of truth. Such have
stood forth in well-nigh all your generations, and
through them from time to time revealings of Deity
have been vouchsafed brighter than ever were shed
forth before. And an unprepared world has blinked
and shielded its eyes from the unwonted glare, and
has chosen the-glpom, for that it was not prepared for
the full radiance, of the Divine truth.
Aug. 27, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
101
\Sanders on of the courier fire. Tes: it is easy to see
in history men who ivere, as we say, in advance of their
age. I suppose the history of the vjorld is a mere record
of development, and that man cannot grasp more of
truth than his faculties fit him to understand. Other¬
wise, where would be the eternal growth! At any rate,
little enough is hnown yet.]
It is well that you recognise your own ignorance.
It is the first step to progress. You are but now
standing in the outmost court, far away from the
temple of truth. You, must walk round and round,
until you know the outer precincts, before you can
penetrate the inner courts; and long and laborious
effort must precede and fit you for eventual entrance
within the temple. Be content. Wait and pray, and
keep yourself in silence and patient watching.
+ Imperator.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
A DEBATE ON MESMERISM.
On Wednesday evening, August 18th, a meeting of the
members of the above society was held at the residence of Mr.
D. G. Fitz-Gorald, member of the Society of Telegraph Engi¬
neers, 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, for the purpose of
discussing the subject of “ Mesmerism.” The members present
were Mr. D. G. Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. FitzGerald, Mrs. Rudd,
Miss Ponder, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. Gray, Mrs. Gunyon, Miss
Kislingbury, Mr. H. E. Frances, hon. sec., Mrs. Frances, and
Miss Emily Fitz-Gerald.
It had been expected that a sensitive would have been present,
with whom some experiments in mesmerism might have been at
once attempted. In the absence of such, however, Mr. Fitz¬
Gerald said he would open the subject with a few remarks, and
the members present might then proceed to determine in what
way the stuejy of mesmerism should be pursued by the Brixton
Psychological Society. He was glad that the Society had taken
up this subject as it might be said to form the experimental
basis of an inductive system of metaphysics, extending the
conclusions of physical science from the point where the
latter necessarily merges into metaphysics. This point is the
“atom.” The old systems of metaphysics lost themselves in
an insecure if not wholly irrational transcendentalism, and
have thus become almost undeservedly unpopular. But the
new system would be an extension of physical science, effected
by means of the same safe methods of research as have been
therein employed,—an extension which has long been called for
by the craving of the human mind for “ more light.” Many
scientific men, amongst them Faraday, Professor Thomson, and
Mr. Cromwell Varley, had recognised the impossibility of a
rational acceptance of the vague but convictive idea of “ mat¬
ter” as it comes to us in infancy through the senses of our
animal nature. Metaphysicians of the school of Bishop Berkeley
can no longer b* ridiculed when thinkers such as those men¬
tioned are forced to the conclusion that matter, or the whole of
the external physical world, is constituted of “ centres of force.”
The idea of the atom—the ultimate answer to every question
as to the nature of any variety of matter—is necessitated by
chemical and physical phenomena; yet it seems quite certain
that the atom—mentally as well as physically indivisible—is
something quite different to what our senses recognise as
matter, and is, moreover, physically incomprehensible except
as a “ circle of force.” Now what in physical science
is termed “force” is already tacitly regarded, by all ex¬
cepting the atheist, as being at all events indirectly, in
its essence, a mode of spiritual force, exerted by a crea¬
tive will. It may probably be rationally considered as
being so directly. It seems quite possible to establish clearly,
by means of logical inductions from expei'imental data, that
matter—the be-all and end-all of the materialist—is a mode of
spiritual or will force. The phenomena of mesmerism are de¬
pendent upon the action of a spritual force, the human will, in
accordance with the laws of nature, i.e., in a limited but wide
field in which it is not counteracted by the creative will. In
our present state of knowledge we may consider three modes in
which will, the active faculty of spirit or absolute being, may act:
1st. Directly.
2nd; Through the intermediary of an imponderable agency
(nervo-yital fluid, odylic fluid, “ magnetism,” &c.), which con¬
stitutes a vehicle for psychic, and probably also for physical
energy.
3rd. Through the double intermediary of this psychic “ fluid,”
and of an organism which translates spiritual and psychic
energy into physical work or effect.
The direct action of the human will appears to be generally,
if not invariably, counteracted by the laws of nature, i.e, by the
creative will. The second mode of action, as well as the third,
is exemplified in mesmerism, since it appears indubitable that,
by psychic agency, the human will is capable of acting upon
inanimate bodies, such as the pendulum of the “ Magneto scope,”
as well as upon an external organism. * The nature, origin, and
modus agendi of the psychic “ fluid ” would be an interesting
subject for research; it will probably be found to be analogous to
ponderable matter, and be traceable to the sun-vitalised food we
take into the system—every food containing stored-up psychic as
well as mechanical energy; and the spiritual body (soul, anima or
psyche') is perhaps built up and constituted by this imponderable
“ matter,” as the animal body is of its mechanical and ponder¬
able analogue. It appears evident that the nervo-vital agency is
neither electricity nor magnetism; and by the assumed wrong
use of these terms scientific inquirers have sometimes been pre¬
judiced against mesmerism. In conclusion, the speaker would
urge upon the Society the adoption, at least provisionally, of some
definite psychological view as to the constitution of man, in order
to avoid misconceptions and confusion such as are sometimes
caused by the use of the word “ mind ” in an undefined sense.
He would recommend for such adoption the Pauline trichotomy
—the ancient view of the tripartite nature of man, according to
which he is a spirit [spiritus, pneuma) psychically embodied in
a soul {anima, psyche'), which is brought into mechanical relation
with ponderable matter by moans of an animal body.
Mr. Tapp observed that the light issuing from a magnet, as
seen by “ sensitives,” appeared to be similar to that issuing
from the fingers of a mesmeriser, and that this probably was
the reason why the alleged nervous “ fluid ” has been termed
“ animal magnetism.” In relation to what has been said as to
the action of the will upon inanimate objects through the in¬
strumentality of a psychic agency, the Fakirs of India appeared
to possess a knowledge of this action, as they could, in their
thaumaturgic performances, bring from a considerable distance
objects which had been touched by them. The curious narrative
given recently in The Spiritualist of the movement of a leaf or
; tendril placed upon the ground was an instance of this. It was
known also to some who had experience of the modern physical
phenomena of Spiritualism that objects touched or even looked
at by mediums were sometimes missed and found to have been
carried to a distance. At some circles where spirits brought
solid objects to the sitters through walls and closed doors, the
sitters were first asked to wish earnestly for what was to bo
brought. It would seem to be' some powerful influence of the
will that was here used, analogous to that which produced mes¬
meric phenomena in the hands of a strong operator. Spirits
apparently had the knowledge how to use the nervo-vital or
psychic agency to effect the movement of heavy bodies, but to bo
unable or unwilling to communicate this knowledge.
Mr. Gray gave some instances which had come to his know¬
ledge of the movement of bodies by will-power. This power, as
possessed by scrap persons, appeared to be very dangerous, as it
would enable one man to inj ure another to a fearful extent; and
there was no protection against it, since it appeared from experi¬
ments that had been made that it could be exerted by _ some
persons over others at a great distance.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald said that although electric currents acting in
closed circuits, and therefore magnetism, were undoubtedly to
some extent active in the human organism, yet it was sufficiently
evident that the great force brought into action, even at a dis¬
tance, by the will must bo due to some other agency. In regard
to the danger of mesmerism, ho thought that those who pro¬
fessed and could cultivate the more abnormal powers of the will
were generally not such as would, even if they could, use such
powers for evil purposes. In any case we need not bo afraid of
knowledge, or at all events of thorough knowledge ; a little
knowledge sometimes did harm, but more knowledge counter¬
acted it.
It was decided to construct a powerful electro-magnet, for the
purposes of experiment in the direction of Reichenbach’s mag¬
netic flames. Attention was' drawn to the fact that Mr. Gray,
then present, was a powerful mesmeriser, with consideiable ex¬
perience in the use of the power.
The discussion meeting was then brought to a close.
Mr. Williams has returned to London, and is giying
seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, as usual.
102
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 27, 1875.
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT BRISTOL.
(From Our Special Correspondent.)
Bristol, Wednesday.
The proceedings this year of the British Association
for the Advancement of Science ■will begin here to¬
night, when Professor Tyndall will resign the presidency
to his successor, Mr. Hawkshaw. Mr. Crookes and
Mr. A. R. Wallace have announced to the local secre¬
taries their intention to he present, though I believe
Mr. Crookes to be so busy that he cannot stay in
Bristol more than a day or two. Dr. Carpenter will be
present during the meeting, and Dr. Balfour Stewart,
one of the authors of The Unseen Universe, will preside
over section A, in the great hall of the School of Art
at Clifton. The walls of the said hall are adorned
with large paintings representing ancient Spiritual
phenomena. If the subject of Spiritualism is started,
its chief supporters and opponents are here to fight the
matter out.
A SEANCE WITH MRS. KATE FOX JENCKEN.
On Saturday evening last a private and impromptu seance
was held at the residence of Mr. H.. D. Jencken, through the
mediumship of Mrs. Jencken (Kate Fox) and her baby boy
Ferdy. The members of the circle consisted only of Mr. and
Mrs. Jencken, Mr. W. H. Harrison, and the little boy.
During tea-time, while nobody was thinking about spirits,
raps and noises began, and the unseen influences began to act
upon Mr. Jencken’s little boy Ferdy, who is now just old
enough to be able to speak a few words. How the spirits have
communicated in writing mediumship through this child has
often been described in these pages. They also act upon him
by violently moving his limbs, thereby rapping out answers to
questions. As he sat in his chair last Saturday, raps through
Mrs. Jencken’s mediumship sounded upon the floor and various
parts of the room, and at last the spirits began to jerk about
the arms and legs of little Ferdy, who, when such manifesta¬
tions begin, is at first apathetic, but after a time begins to cry,
for he does not like them. “ Yes” and “ No” answers to ques¬
tions were given by the spirits moving the legs of the little
boy by kicking them against the table, after which they began'
to carry Ferdy and his chair bodily along the floor; the chair
oscillated so much while this was going on that Mrs. Jencken
jumped up and seized Ferdy, fearing that he would be thrown
to the ground.
As all these things took place unexpectedly, and as it was
evident that there was plenty of power in the room, Mr. Jencken
proposed a seance.
Ferdy was accordingly taken up stairs to bed, and Mr.
Jencken, Mrs. Jencken, and Mr. Harrison sat at three out of
four sides of a rectangular table. The raps were strong, but in
order to get further manifestations all the lights in the room
were extinguished, so that there was no illumination but that
given by the gaslight outside shining through the blind of the
window. There was thus just light enough for the sitters to
see each other, and to see the form of Mrs. Jencken standing
out in fqll relief against the illuminated blind of the window
behind her, so that anything the spirits did near her could
be seen.
At first there were only raps, but then a rustling noise was
heard upon the table as the spirits began to finger the pencils
and paper there. These were pulled off the table on to the floor,
and a spirit-hand could be heard writing there, while all three
sitters were in view of each other. Mrs. Jencken also gave Mr.
Harrison her hands to hold, not that he desired it, but perhaps
because she thought if anything unusual took place it might
be published. The writing continued beneath the table, and at
last the paper came up between Mrs. Jencken and Mr. Harrison,
between his eyes and the illuminated blind; he saw the paper
rise and saw the materialised arms and hands which carried it;
they passed over his shoulder, and dropped the pencil on to the
table. Then they carried the paper underneath again, and gave
it into one of his hands, which he placed under the table for the
purpose.
Afterwards, the inner lace curtains of the window began to
rise, and to float backwards and forwards one or two feet;
nothing visible was touching them.
These manifestations, although they are not now uncommon,
derive an additional interest in consequence of coming in the
presence of Kate Fox, the first medium, through whose medium-
ship the great movement of modem Spiritualism began in
America. Since that day she has borne many a trial, for few
persons suffer so much, both at the hands of friends, and foes, as
mediums, and yet phenomena produced in her presence have
become established as realities in the minds of all those who
have candidly investigated them. Mr. Jencken also has done
a great deal for Spiritualism in England ; many years ago ho
published fearlessly all that he knew of its phenomena, at a
time when it was more dangerous and more unpleasant to do
so than it is at present. All the strange things he saw through
the mediumship of Mr. Home he printed without hesitation, and
this required no small courage on the part of a barrister exposed
daily to the keen criticisms of his brethren in the legal fraternity.
He is also a member of the Royal Institution, and one night,
after a lecture there by Mr. Norman Lockyer, some raps took
place, in the presence of witnesses, through Mrs. Jencken’s
mediumship, within walls whence the authoritative declaration
has gone forth that such things are not realities. Mr. Jencken
is also a honorary member of the “ Association for the Reform
and Codification of the Law of Nations,’’ which will hold its
annual conference at the Hague on the first of next month. The
activity of Mr. Jencken brought together most of the members
of the council of this association, which not only includes some
of the most intelligent of the English judges, but men of the
highest legal ability in all parts of the world. We call attention
to these personal circumstances merely to show that in this, as
in the case of many other Spiritualists, the testimony of indi¬
viduals to what the world believes to be impossible, is not
necessarily coupled with incapacity on the part of those indi¬
viduals to attend to the responsible business of life.
Mr. Jencken narrated to us the following circumstances,
which occurred during Mrs. Jencken’s recent visit to New
York:—“ In the apartments of Mr. Gr. Taylor, Hotel Branting,
New York, Mrs. Jencken had several sittings in clear gaslight.
After a short pause, Dr. Taylor’s wife only present, the spirit
form of the mother of Mrs. G. Taylor developed in their pre¬
sence. The form developed down, to the waist, the head and
bust beautifully formed, the eyes bright and expressive, the
likeness perfect. The apparition then whispered a few words.
A second form had by that time also developed—the sister of
Mrs. G. Taylor—in perfect outline, beautifully formed, spiritual
in every sense. These forms remained visible for a very short
time, and then gradually faded away. The health of Mrs.
Jencken prevented any seances: what happened occurred with¬
out prearrangement, spontaneously, unasked, unsought for.
One phase of Mrs. Jencken’s mediumship has been that of pre¬
diction. Whilst staying with Dr. Taylor day by day, coming
events would be foretold, and what is—particularly in Spirit¬
ualism—the exception, they came true, true to the letter.”
THE ANNUAL NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The annual conference of Spiritualists under the auspices of
the British National Association will take place this year in
London in the early part of November. The conference com¬
mittee held a meeting last Monday evening, at 88, Great
Russell-street, the results of which will be seen in an advertise¬
ment on another page. The sessions, which are to be held in
the afternoon and evening of two consecutive days, will be pre¬
ceded by a conversazione, when country and London friends will
have an opportunity of becoming acquainted with one another
Among the subjects suggested for papers, that of healing
mediumship is an important one, and presents a wide field for
discussion. There are now many practically engaged in the
work in various parts of London and in the provinces, and they
will do well to give their experiences, as a more extensive
knowledge of the results achieved would lead to a more general
belief in the efficacy of the power, and consequently more fre¬
quent use would be made of it, to the great benefit of many
now hopeless sufferers. Many other of the subjects proposed
will furnish points for useful discussion, and the publicity given
to the reports of such meetings cannot fail to be of great service
to the cause.
Monthly Conyersazione of the National Association.
—The ordinary monthly Conversazione of the British National
Association of Spiritualists will take place on Wednesday
evening next, Sept. 1st, at 38, Great Russell-street. Though
many Spiritualists are absent from London at this season, there
are still sufficient to make it desirable that these pleasant and
successful gatherings should not. be discontinued. The meetings
are altogether of an informal nature, it being found more
agreeable to hare no set programme of arrangements.
Aug. 27, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
103
THE REINCARNATION CONTROVERSY.
BY THE DUKE OF IOSUCHTEjOERG.
I have just read in No. 155 of The Spiritualist the
“ Researches on the Historical Origin of the Reincar¬
nation Speculations of French Spiritualists,” by the
Hon. A. Aksakof. Having no data to bring in argument
against the facts mentioned, although they seem to
me to be rather partial, I wish to state one fact, which
stands in full contradiction to the assertion of M.
Aksakof, namely, that through physical mediums the
communications are not only more objective, but
always contrary to the doctrine of reincarnation. I
have many times witnessed physical manifestations,
and can positively assert that through them, when
the spirits are high and advanced, the doctrine of
reincarnation is taught, and often sustained by proofs.
The principal thing, and the difficulty, is to deal with
good spirits, bad ones being more facile at producing
physical manifestations. These latter spirits not only
speak against reincarnation, but often deny even the
existence of God. As to the “ignoring” of Mr.
Home by Allan Kardec, it seems strange to hear it, as
his name is mentioned by the latter in his writings as
a powerful physical medium [The Medium's Booh,
12th French edition, page 88).
Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg.
18th August, 1875, Bavaria, Stain.
MR. MORSE’S EXPERIENCES IN AMERICA.
MRS. conakt’s departure to the higher life—A spirit¬
ualists’ “ CAMP MEETING ”—MR. MORSE AMONG THE SHAKERS
— SOCIAL HABITS OF THE, AMERICANS—STRONG CLASS DIS¬
TINCTIONS.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—Where there is so much to ■write about, it is anything
but easy to make a commencement. First, however, let me re¬
late an event that has just transpired in this city, and one
through which our cause has been bereft of one of its oldest
public workers. I must premise by saying that Mrs. J. H.
Conant, to whom the foregoing sentence refers, had been
seriously ill for quite a number of months past, her indisposition
ultimating in an ulcerous tumour upon the breast. Since Feb¬
ruary 9th of this year her illness compelled her to discontinue
her regular circles at the Banner of Light office, and from that
time she gradually grew worse in health, until finally, on the
early morning of Thursday, the 5th inst., she passed from the
mortal form into the land of immortality. The utmost attention
had been paid her, and all that could be done to lessen her suf¬
ferings was done alike by friends in and out of the form; and the
kindness of the proprietors of the Banner of Light showed their
full appreciation of Mrs. Conant’s labours on their behalf in
times gone by. Mrs. J. H. Conant, nee Frances Ann Cowell,
was born in Portsmouth, State of New Hampshire, April 28th,
1831, and at the age of twenty-one years was united in marriage
to John H. Conant, a grandson of Prof. John Hubbard, of Dart-
mputh College; thus at the time of her departure she was a
little over forty-four years of age. Her biography, a goodly
volume, extending over 300 pages, is one of the most interesting
contributions to the literature of personal experiences of
mediumship our movement has received. I have no hesitation
in saying (after having read it) that Mrs. Conant was one of the
—if not the—most remarkable medium of whom Spiritualism has
any record. Bearing the cross of mediumship from early child¬
hood, as did Mrs. Conant, and facing the brunt of the early
strife, she bore her part well and bravely in the heat and burden
of the days gone by, and now on the shores of the bright be¬
yond she reaps the reward of her labours and the realisation of
her philosophy. Our loss was her gain.
Here, sir, I desire to do an act of simple justice, and adjust a
previously made statement, more in accordance with fact, as
since ascertained. My good brother Cooper, who you will
know is travelling with me, stated in a contemporary that our
' visit to Mrs. Conant’s “ Banner Circle ” was of rather a
disappointing character. And so it seemed at the time he
wrote. But subsequent inquiry has elicited the fact that we
there saw Mrs. Conant under the most unfavourable circum¬
stances, and that it was a positive injustice to' the lady,
and the influences controlling her, to form an opinion of her, or
them, upon the conditions then presented to our notice. And
further, in the light of what Mr. Cooper and myself know of
mediumship, we are each desirous of as publicly rectifying our
error as we were public in making it. A public record extend¬
ing over twenty-three years is of itself ample testimony of Mrs.
Conant’s ability as a medium; and added to that her worth as
a woman, we feel that all we can say is—Mr. Cooper and I—
“ Well done, thou good and faithful servant.”
Since my last letter I have had a new experience of a matter
peculiar to this country—a Spiritualists’ camp meeting ! It was
hold at Silver Lake Grove, Plympton, Mass., about thirty miles
from Boston, extending over three Sundays, and terminating to¬
day. On Wednesday I am going to another one, at Lake Plea¬
sant, Montague, Mass., about one hundred miles from here, and
as that will be, I am told, the best of the two,. I will reserve a
detailed description of the affair until my next letter. Suffice
it to say that it is an exceeding jolly method of taking a summer
outing. I wonder when English Spiritualists will move in the
same direction ?
I closed my engagement in New York on Sunday, July 18th.
I met with the most flattering success, and was earnestly desired
to remain another Sunday; I could not, as on tho 25th I was
engaged to speak at the Silver Lake camp meeting. Mr. Cooper
and I during our stay in New York made several agreeable
.acquaintances, among them Mr. Mansfield, the test medium;
Mr. A. E. Newton, President of the American Photographic
Union, also president of the society I spoke for; Judge A. W. G.
Carter ; Wella Anderson, the spirit-artist, and many others. Of
Mr. Anderson I had hoped to say a little, but a picture I am ex¬
pecting from him has not yet arrived, so I will wait. While in
New York I received a very kind note from our old friend Elder
F. W. Evans, of the Mount Lebanon Shaker community, asking
us to pay them a visit. We did so, and on arriving there on the
evening of July 20th, the elder very cordially greeted us both,
and inquired right kindly of his many friends in England. He
evidently retains the most pleasant reminiscences of his trip to
our land. We found them—the Shakers—a very swarm of bees,
without a drone amongst them, every one having a place
to fill, and there being something for each one to do. They
rise at about 4.30 a.m., work until six, then breakfast;
work again until noon, then dine—labour being resumed until
six in the evening, at which time they take supper. Social con¬
verse then takes place between the brethren and sisters until about
7.30, after which they retire to their rooms, the brethren in one
part of the house, the sisters in another. Celibacy is the life
rule of a full degree Shaker. After about 9 p.m. all is quiet,
and sleep broods over all. A cheerful seriousness, if you can
conceive the idea, is the prevailing characteristic of all the
members; but there is an entire absence of fanaticism or bigotry
either on the part of members or officials. A vacant laugh or
an unmeaning phrase was not heard during our three days’ stay.
Everything is scrupulously clean and strictly utilitarian, the
beautiful being at all times subordinated to the useful. Pictures
flowers, and decoration are conspicuous by their absence. This
society has a barn, which is truly, in its principles , of construc¬
tion, admitted by all agriculturists to be superior to anything in
the United States, if not in the world. Elder Evans designed
it, and he evidently took considerable pride in showing us over
it and explaining to us its peculiar merits. Save the ordinary
cattle of a farmstead, a solitary cat was the only creature
about the premises. \ He was a fine, sleek, well fed and cared
for mouse-coloured Tom. I shall long remember him as the
first specimen of the species Shaker felice. It evidently agreed
with him.
Our meals were served at a separate table in a separate
apartment, since the family' (as it is called) never eat with
those of the “ world ” when they call as visitors. Everything
was simply delicious. Mead, three kinds, butter, meat, fowls,
milk (the real article, gotten from an honestly-fed and kept
cow), and fruits were just splendid. In fact all—food, clothing,
and appurtenances—are of the highest character; and what¬
ever one may think of their peculiar doctrines in regard to the
relation of the sexes, there can be no question that they are a
happy, honest, and contented people. On one evening we were
invited to a meeting, at which Mr. Cooper related his experi¬
ences at the Eddy homestead, and at which “ Tien ” also made
a brief and apropos address. We left Mount Lebanon well
pleased with our hospitable friends, and if not able to agree
with them on all points, we found much to admire and respect.
During my visit to tbis country I have endeavoured to atten¬
tively observe and note its social peculiarities. And really,
104
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 27, 1875
upon the whole, I am inclined to say that society here, in very
many respects, is the same as it is with us. This country has
no aristocracy, it is true, but a plutocracy takes its place.
Though disclaiming the aristocratic regime of the, European
countries, I find America has its societary divisions, just as
clearly defined and rigidly enforced as is ever the case in
Europe. But, withal, there is yet a greater freedom and
geniality underlying the same class of people on this side of the
Atlantic than we can find upon our side, and I am inclined to
believe it arises from the fact that the highest place in society,
or the Government, is open to the possession of any who may
strive to win it. A bare-footed boy to-day, a help on a Western
farm to-morrow, and president of the Republic the week after,
then back again to private life, is a fair illustration of my idea.
Your real American, if he has “ true grit,” is ever admired and
respected. And here, above all countries, boldness, energy, and
decision have every chance to lead their possessor to the
grandest heights. Among what for the want of a better term
I will style “ middle classes ” here, the method of living
adopted in many instances seems quite peculiar to an English¬
man ; it is this: instead of keeping house, furnished rooms are
rented, and meals are taken either at a boarding-house or a
restaurant near by ; at times board is served in the same house.
Rooms cost from six dollars to fifty dollars per week,
while board runs from five dollars up to any price you
are inclined to pay. One reason assigned for this mode of
living is, that as “ helps ” (servants) are so very dear, and
■withal dreadfully troublesome, for very often the help wants, to
use a Yankeeism, “ to boss the concern,” anglice, to be mistress,
so the family saves, by this way of living, the cost and trouble of
housekeeping. But to an Englishman, the absence of the
family circle around the table seems at first a loss too great to
be borne.
A badly-dressed Parisian is almost a phenomenon; such also
is the fact in regard to American women. The newest, best,
and most stylish apparel is the rule. Much taste and judgment
are displayed too; in fact, men and women all strive to make
everything, themselves included, as bright, nice, and tasty as
possible. Many of the American women are splendid specimens
of female beauty, but they do not retain their freshness so long
as their English sisters; still, while it lasts it is a matter they
may well be proud of. But there is one thing I admire in our
fair American cousins—that is, their self-reliance and inde¬
pendence. Self poised, and able to sustain herself under almost
any circumstances, an American woman is a wonder and
example to us all.
Time is fleeing, and soon I shall bid adieu to the shores that
have extended so hospitable a welcome to me. Our path in
life has many windings and turns, and though I am well
pleased that one of the'turns has brought mo here, yet I shall
also feel pleased when the next turn brings me back again to
the shores of “ Sea-girt Albion’s isle,” and those I’ve left behind.
Boston, Mass,, U.S., August 10th, 1875. J. J. MORSE.
A MEDICAL STATEMENT RELATING TO MR. DALE
OWEN’S INSANITY.
The Louisville Courier Journal prints a letter from Dr. Jack-
son, the proprietor of the “Home on the Hillside,” at Dans-
ville, N. Y,, in response to a correspondent who had interviewed
Robert Dale Owen’s brother at Bloomington, Ind. The latter
stated that the distinguished author and Spiritualist had failed
in health mainly on account of a sudden change in his habits
and an insufficient diet. Dr. Jackson is naturally indignant at
such a charge, and his Version of the story, as given in the
Journal, is certainly plausible, if not strictly true. He says
that when Mr. Owen first came to the “ Home ” it was his
intention to remain only a few days, with a favourite daugh¬
ter, who was undergoing medical treatment. Mr. Owen sub¬
sequently changed his plans, and, on the invitation of Dr.
Jackson, concluded to spend the summer with his daughter.
At an interview the doctor had with his guest as a physician
Mr. Owen complained of suffering from dyspepsia and nervous¬
ness, which had become very much aggravated within a few
months; he said that he had eaten no flesh food for eighteen
months, but had subsisted entirely on bread, fruit, and vege¬
tables. The sole remedy which Dr. Jackson says he prescribed
was—rest from all intellectual labour. There was never a greater
absurdity than the statement that meat was forbidden to guests
of his establishment. The simple fact of the whole matter was
that Robert Dale Owen’s physical health was poor, because his
brain had been overworked. The results of his Spiritualistic
experience had no other effect than of driving him into extra
literary work, in order to drown his chagrin at his failure in
the investigation of the Holmeses’ materialisations. While in
feeble health he still persisted in continuing his vegetable diet,
ate only two meals, and worked hard on the autobiographical
papers which he had engaged to contribute to the Atlantic
Monthly. The tension of such work on his system was too
great for long endurance. The result which the experienced
physician had already prophesied occurred, and Robert Dale
Owen now languishes in an asylum for the insane, because of
his violation of the imperative command of nature that he
should take rest. The example which is presented by this
wreck of a fine mind, while yet in the full maturity of its
powers, should not be without its influence upon many brain¬
workers of the country. Nature always gives ample warning
to those who are exhausting her forces ; but if they do not heed
her mandates, the punishment, though oftentimes slow, is in¬
evitable as fate.—Niagara Falls Daily Register, Aug. 3.
SUNDAY SERVICES AT THE EAST END.
Last Sunday evening a service in connection with Spiritualism
was held, as usual, at 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end, London.
An inspirational address was delivered at the close, through the
mediumship of Mr. R. Cogman. There have been very full
attendances at these meetings of late.
The service commenced with the singing of a hymn, an
accompaniment being played on the harmonium by Mr. M. W.
Carral, who has just returned to England from Toronto, Canada.
Mr. Cogman then passed into the trance state, and delivered
the following inspirational preludeSweet indeed are the
moments to the soul when congenial minds meet together to
outpour their breathings to the Great Mind of the Universe.
Man has an intense inner sense; this portion of his nature leads
him to look upwards to the Infinite, and to feel that there is
something beyond the common observation of the creature
which causes the soul to rise in the attempt to understand the
great Intelligence above; to understand the great Power which
spreads its table with the choicest viands, and invites all the
sons and daughters of light to partake of the rich fare. Thus,
Father and Mother God, direct souls to the Great Centre where
their aspirations may rise to things on high with the wings of
eagles, and that they may run without weariness. "When the
soul of man calls upon nature she does all that is necessary to
supply its wants, to give it that rich philosophy which shall fill
the mind to the full stature of spiritual life, and bring man
into direct relationship with those infinite powers which are the
meat and drink of all spiritual children. The God of the uni¬
verse is manifest in every creature, so that the father and the
son are one, and the daughter is one, and all those children
become united who partake of the rich meat and wine which
give courage, wisdom, and knowledge to all the sons of Time.
0 Father! Pour out the balm of Thy spirit on all inquiring
minds, that they may lack not that joy which is unspeakable
and full of satisfaction. Amen.
Mr. Newman then gave out another hymn, after which
Mr. Cogman, still in the trance state, said that so far as the
mind of man was concerned, and its interest in its own intelli¬
gence and spiritual individuality, and considering the large
amount of evidence of spirit power in the world, it was wonder¬
ful that there should still be enemies of Spiritualism in the front
ranks of knowledge, even among men who professedly devoted
themselves to the study of nature and of the works of God. In
the midst of the crowd of great intellects, Spiritualists were
surrounded by hosts of enemies and persecutors, so there was
nothing for them to do but to stand to their own hypothesis, to
stand upon their own individuality of character, and to carry
out for themselves those ideas which were the great motive
powers of their inner nature and of their lives. They should
desire to mine beneath the rocks of civilisation, and the crude
ideas of their fathers of old, for it mattered not to them how
many saints or martyrs had died for an individual cause,
whether that cause were legitimate or illegitimate, for they
were called upon amid a Babel of tongues and heaps of ancient
books to investigate their own case and to stand true to their
own individuality. The great minds of every age had tried to
discover the secret workings of nature, and they had done so
with all the earnestness of the truth-loving characteristics of
science ; in like manner should Spiritualists study the mytho¬
logies and phantasms of all ages, to find out their various points
of contact, and to separate the realities from the nonentities
which priestcraft was spreading before them. The Master’s
will was that man should be disciplined and educated on this
superior and spiritual plane of thought, and that when a
superior thought came into their minds, the inferior thought
should be abandoned, and allowed to mis with the things of tho
Aug. 27, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
105
past. To understand spiritual nature, man must be brought
into this spiritual school; he must learn to think for himself and
to act independently. Although some of the teachings of the
spirits might be thought too revolutionary, what right on their
part had they, knowing what they did, to keep men half-way
between truth and error, instead of speaking that which was
right ?
At the close of the lecture another hymn was sung, and the
proceedings terminated.
A MAN’S WORD FOR WOMAN.
BY T. L. HARRIS.
By this we hold: No man is wholly great,
Or wise, or just, or good,
Who will not .dare his all to reinstate
Earth’s trampled womanhood.
No Seer sees truly, save as he discerns
Her crowned, coequal right;
No lover loves divinely, till he burns
Against her foes to fight.
That Church it fallen prone as Lucifer;
God’s bolts that hath not hurled
Against the Tyrants who have outraged her,
The Priestess of the world.
That Press, whose minions, slavish and unjust,
Bid her in fetters die,
Toils, in the base behalf of Pride and Lust,
To consecrate a lie.
“ Once it was Christ, whom Judas with a kiss
Betrayed,” the Spirit saith :
“But now, ’tis Woman’s heart, inspired by his,
That man consigns to death.”
Each village hath its martyrs—every street
Some house that is a hell;
Some woman’s heart, celestial, pure, and sweet,
Breaks with each passing bell.
There are deep wrongs, too infinite for words,
Man dare not have revealed;
And, in our midst, insane, barbaric, hordes
Who make the Law their shield.
Rise then, 0 Woman; grasp the mighty pen,
By inspiration driven;
Scatter the sophistries of cruel men,
With voices fresh from Heaven.
Man, smiting thee, moves on from war to war;
All rights with thine decease.
Rise, ’throned with Christ, in His pure morning star,
And charm the world to Peace.
Brotherhood of the New Life,
halem-on-Erie, N.Y.
(EumsponTience.
Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and Us readers.]
SPIRITUALISM AND VEGETARIANISM.
Sir,—In reply to your correspondent “X.,” in The Spirit¬
ualist for August 13th, I would remark that vegetarians derive
the necessary amount of phosphorus from peas, beans, lentils,
wheat, barley, oats and Indian corn, all of which are rich in
that element as food for brain and nerve power, and according
to some chemists, potatoes, sweet potatoes,' parsnips, carrots,
and turnips alsq contain this element. In ordinary circum¬
stances, as to temperature, muscular and mental exercise, &c.,
only 2 or 3 per cent, of phosphates are required to keep a man
in healthy working order, while 15 per cent, of nitrates, and
from 65 to 70 per cent, of carbonates, are required.
Some vegetarians profess to be able to live without partaking
of milk, cream, butter, cheese, or eggs. My experience does
not lie in (this direction ; and I doubt very much whether all
persons could sustain health and strength on a dietary from
which these substances are excluded. Does your correspondent
“ X.” mean such a diet as this when he speaks of the weakness
experienced by himself and a friend of his, who tried vegetable
diet, and found themselves sinking under it ? All that vege¬
tarians profess to do is “ to abstain from the flesh of animals
at least this is what I declared that I had been doing, and pur¬
posed doing, when I joined the Vegetarian Society in 1847.
The quality of vegetarian food, and the quantity required by
each individual, must depend on the temperament, the capacity
of the digestive powers, and the amount of mental and muscular
work performed. The food which would be very appropriate
for a man of light, active frame, of sanguine-nervous tempera¬
ment, and engaged in intellectual pursuits, ought to be very dif¬
ferent from that required by a man of large, bulky frame, of
lymphatic temperament, and engaged in bodily labour. It is fox-
want of considering these matters that such mistakes are made
by those who desire to try vegetarian food, and who fail to
derive advantage from it.
As to the effect of vegetarian diet upon mediumship, I have
had hardly any experience, and must therefore leave this matter
to be disposed of by other correspondents. Medicus.
THE ORIGIN OP ALLAN KARDEC’S “ SPIRITS’ BOOK.”
Sir,—Busy as I am, I must ask you to allow me to offer a
few remarks in reference to M. Aksakof’s article in the number
of The Spiritualist which has just reached me.
Whatever may be M. Aksakof’s opinion to the contrary, most
of your readers will surely agree with me that “ the essential
point in the criticism of any book” is to ascertain what the book
contains, and to examine its views, arguments, and conclusions.
If M. Aksakof had done this in regard to the works of Allan
Kardec, he might have spared himself the trouble of writing
his article ; for he would have seen—First, That Allan Kardec
invariably defines his work as having been the giving of a
coherent and systematic form to views which have been held,
more or less loosely and vaguely, by eminent thinkers of all
ages from the remotest antiquity to the present day, but which
have been set forth more fully, clearly, and consistently through
the instrumentality of modern mediums. Secondly, That, so
far from “ presenting Reincarnation as a dogma,” he invariably
treats it as a question to be decided entirely by argument and
by reason. Thirdly (and this brings me to the gist of the
article referred to), That he repeats, over and over again, that
all his books were compiled by him from the concun-ent state¬
ments of mediums in every part of the world. Now it is evident
, that, such being the case, it was impossible for Allan Kardec to
cite the names of all the mediums from whose communications
those books were compiled ; and he accordingly decided (at the
request, moreover, of very many among them) not to cite the
names of any of them. That M. Aksakof has been misinformed
in regard to the inception and first appearance of The Spirits’
Booh will be seen by reference to the preface, in which I have
embodied the statements made to me on the subject by the wife
of Allan Kardec, and by his most intimate friends, as well as
the results of my own personal acquaintance with him. It is
possible that some portions of the additional matter introduced
into the “ revised edition ” (which has remained as the definitive
form of The Spirits’ Book') may have been furnished by the
two mediums whose statements M. Aksakof seems to have
received as gospel; but they could have had nothing like the
share in the first production of the work which that gentleman
attributes to them. And the suggestion that “ the Spiritists
have buried those two mediums alive,” like the fable which
would place Allan Kardec on the staff of the Univei's, is too
absurd for sex-ious refutation.
M. Aksakof’s assertion that “ physical manifestations are
always conti-ary to reincarnation ” is contradicted by facts. In
my own case, particulars relating to my past existences have
been given me through several of our best physical mediums;
in some cases, not understood by them (as once, by Mr. Home,
in trance), in others (as in that of the younger Mrs. Marshall),
to their great surprise ; and an immense number of other per¬
sons could testify to similar experiences. Besides, “John
King,” as I have pointed out in Spiritualism and Spiritism, has
repeatedly asserted that he lived on this eax-th in the reigns of
Queen Elizabeth and of Charles II.; and his daughter “ Katie ”
made, you will remember, a similar admission, to Prince Emile
de Sayn-Wittgenstein, of having been connected with him in
one of his former incax-nations. The last number of The
Medium, also, contains an extx-emely interesting account of the
assertion of his reincarnations by the “ materialised ” spirit of
“ Thomas Ronalds and this in a group of sitters who do not
appear to have been favourably disposed towards the doctrine
of the plurality of our terrestrial existences, of which, however,
abundant confirmation of a similar character will doubtless be
forthcoming as this branch of the art of manifestation becomes
generalised among the people of the spirit-world.
As to the complaint that the young French medium, Camille
Br^dif, now doing good service in Russia, was not mentioned in
the Revue Spirits, M. Aksakof seems to be unawai-e of the fact
that Camille’s present phase of mediahimity, like that of poor
Firman, was only developed last year, and as a direct conse¬
quence of the visit of Mr. Williams to Paris; previous to that
visit the influence whicix renders “ materialisation ” possible
does not appear to have crossed the Channel, and Camille’s
mediumship produced only raps, with the movement of objects
106
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 27, 1875.
at dark seances, ■which cannot be said to have done much towards
convincing incredulous inquirers.
Equally unfortunate is M. Aksakof’s assertion that Allan
Kai’dec “ ignored ” Mr. Home and the manifestations obtained
•through him ; had he read The Mediums’ Book, he would have
seen that they are alluded to in that work.
M. Aksakof says that Pezzani and Gahagnet upheld the doc¬
trine of reincarnation before Allan Kardec; but why does he
allude only to those two ? In The Testimony of the Ages I have
given a list “ as long as my arm ” of modern writers who have,
as “ precursors,” prepared the way for the fuller presentation of
the law of our successive existences which Allan Kardec was
employed to elucidate by showing it, no longer as a mere
isolated philosophic idea, but as part and parcel of the general
plan of Providential development for all times, worlds, and reigns.
The special work of Allan Kardec, as he himself defines it, is
that of a comparer, collator, compiler ; but it nevertheless pre¬
sents, in its entirety, a philosophic whole, which is recognised as
new, original, unique by all who have taken the trouble to
ascertain for themselves what it really is.
M. Aksakof concludes his article by remarking, very truly,
that “ it is scarcely necessary to point out that all he has stated
does not affect the question of reincarnation considered upon its
own meritsto which admission I add that the momentous
issue, raised by the books which I am wearing out my eyes in
bringing within reach of the English-speaking world, will
eventually be decided, simply and solely, upon its own merits,
despite all the efforts of its adversaries to displace the question
by ignoring the tenor of those books themselves, and substituting
for dispassionate examination of their argument wholesale dis¬
paragement devoid of proof, and the repetition of unfounded or
distorted statements having nothing to do with the question at
issue, originally set afloat by envy and jealousy, and which were
met by Allan Kardec, during his lifetime, with the magna¬
nimity of silent contempt. Anna Blackwell.
Wimille, Pas de Calais, July 15,1875.
CURIOUS EXPERIENCES AT A SEANCE.
Sir,—Kindly allow me space in your columns for a brief
account of my investigation of “ Spiritualism.”
I am not a Spiritualist. I do not believe that spirits of per¬
sons departed this life again take on flesh and become visible,
or communicate with their friends by voice or raps; but some
curious phenomena have come under my notice, and if scientific
men cannot or will not trouble to give a satisfactory explanation
of them, believers in Spirittialism will rapidly increase.
The subject was first brought under my notice in August last
by a friend who related to me his experiences, and as he
appeared to be sane on all other subjects, I arrived at the con¬
clusion that he had been the dupe of some clever tricksters, and
with the intention of exposing the imposture accepted an invi¬
tation to sit at his house.
Seance No. 1 was held in a darkened room, the sitters num¬
bering seven or eight, with a non-professional medium. The
table tilted and moved about, and several raps were heard.
Seance No. 2 was held under the same conditions as No. 1,
and with the same results, only that it terminated by the sitters
accusing each other of having rapped with the knuckles. During
this sitting I contrived to sit next the medium, and at the time
raps were heard on the back of his chair, I found that his
hands were off the table. Accusing him of this he denied it,
although I had positive evidence by touch and hearing that he
was telling a falsehood.
I found my friend quite ready to believe my version of the
affair; but I was not ready to accept his theory that the medium
was under spirit control, and did not know where his hands
were, although now I am prepared to accept an explanation
that he was under control of some kind, and did not wilfully
tell a falsehood.
My investigation of Spiritualism would have ended with this
seance if my friend had not maintained his convictions strongly,
and induced me to read some works on the subject—notably one
by Mr. Crookes.
Satisfied that no ordinary trickery would deceive a scientific
man accustomed to close observation, I determined to continue
my investigation with the view of ascertaining how he had been
deceived; for it was far more easy to believe that there were
persons to be found clever enough to trick him, than to believe
that spirits had been seen, felt, or heard.
My next seance was held on Christmas-day, without the
assistance of my Spiritualist friend and his medium. There
were six sitters including myself, and five of them had not
attended a seance, and wore as sceptical, if not more so, than
myself. The light was excluded from the room so perfectly
that after sitting twenty or thirty minutes not an object, was
visible to any of the sitters. The table did not move, nor were
any raps heard, and we unanimously voted the affair “ hum¬
bug.” We were just going to end the sitting when one of the
sitters exclaimed, “ Something touched me,” and to my astonish¬
ment I found that the sitters were all plainly visible, and the
room illumined with a peculiar light.
Screams and cries of “ Look! Look ! an apparition! ” fol -
lowed by the gentleman who sat farthest from the door
making a rush for it, clearing the harmonium in his way, ter¬
minated the sitting.
About half-an-hour was then spent in calming the fears of a
lady who went into hysterics, and I questioned each sitter sepa¬
rately as to the apparition, with the following result:—
The five sitters agreed that the pdrtion of my body above the
table appeared covered with tiny flames—that a luminous form
rose apparently through the table and floated away to the end
of the room. One sitter recognised the features of the form.
Another saw in addition a second form about two feet high
standing at my side, and rather behind me, which “ resembled a
child covered with a white sheet.”
The five sitters could not be induced to sit again, and conse¬
quently further observation on my part was prevented. I re¬
mained as sceptical as before of the reputed agency of spirits,
but was satisfied that timid persons might have jumped hastily
to a belief in spiritual agency under similar circumstances,
without meriting the appellation of “ fools and fanatics,” for the
phenomena were startling.
If your sceptical scientific readers can explain them without
the aid of trickery, a la Maskelyne and Cook, they will oblige
me.
In your next issue I will, with your permission, give them
another scientific poser. Common Sense.
August 17, 1875.
[Statements of fact, like those in this letter, lose much of their weight
when the name and address of the author are not published.—Ed.]
A DEAD BODY FOUND BY ONE OF CAPTAIN HUDSON’S
CLAIRVOYANTS.
Sir,—In the year 1854 I was giving a course of lectures in
Huddersfield, Yorkshire, on mesmerism and cognate subjects.
During our stay there Sarah Ann Lamb, of Marsden, seven
miles from Huddersfield, after practising singing at the church
school for Christmas (Dr. James, vicar), had to return home.
The night was very dark, and, in having to cross the river
Colne, which was much swollen by the quantity of rain that
had fallen, she appeared to have missed the bridge and to have
fallen into the river. The splash was heard by some young
men, search was made for her, but the water carried her away.
Parents and friends persevered in looking for her for three
weeks. They had some of the mill dams emptied. During the
search they found one boot and some of her clothing. Five
pounds reward was also offered for her body, but all to no pur¬
pose. Her parents were very much distressed, not knowing
what to do, and her poor mother kept the door of the house
open night after night, hoping and expecting her to come in.
Dr. James, the vicar, wrote to me, asking me to try
one of my patients in the mesmeric trance, to see if she
could find her. I had at that time a young girl under
my treatment (Miss Chandler), one of the singers in the
church choir at Huddersfield. The uncle of the girl who was
drowned, and Mr. Farrar, a manufacturer from Marsden, came
and brought the clothes with them they had found in the river.
I told them to take a cab and go for the girl, Miss Chandler.
They brought her back with them. I put her into the coma,
then asked her if she could recognise the clothes in the room,
and where they came from. She shortly answered that they
belonged to the poor girl who had fallen into the river at Mars¬
den. She appeared very much affected. I told her to go and
see where the lost girl was, and to let me know. -In a short
time she said, “ There she is, poor thing ! ” u Will you please
inform us where she is? ” She answered, “ I will tell you. Just now
she lies on the right side of the river going down, twenty yards
above the second bridge at Mirfield.” The uncle remarked with
surprise, “ That is fourteen miles below where she fell in.” The
clairvoyant then said, “ If you had seen how the water swept
her down, you would not have said that. Go,” she said, “ and
you will find her.” I then awoke her. We questioned her on
the subject, but she knew nothing of the affair or what she had
been saying.
The uncle, on the following morning, took two men from
Marsden and two at Mirfield, also a grapnel and some rope.
He cast it into the river, but could not find her. The uncle
Aug. 27. 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST. 107
said to the men belonging to Mirfield, “ Is this the second
bridge ? ” The men answered, “ This is the first; the second
bridge is half a mile further down.” They went to it, and at
about twenty yards above it put in the grapnel. The second
time of putting it in it caught hold of the girl’s foot, about six
inches below the surface of the water. Her body was entirely
under the' sand. They dug her out, brought her to land, and
took the body to a public-house close by. A coroner’s inquest
was held over the body. What was said in my room and how
they found her was all reported in the Huddersfield paper at
the time.
Another strange circumstance may be related. I had Miss
Chandler in the coma at the time I thought they would be
looking for her. She sat quiet for some time ; at last she said,
“ They have got her.” Shortly after I received the news of her
being found in the place Miss Chandler had described as above.
The uncle and Mr. Farrar called on me the day following
about the five pounds reward offered for the body. As they had
found the same through me they wished to pay me. I told them
I had not found her—Miss Chandler had directed them to the
place; if they made her a present of a guinea it would satisfy
all parties. They readily paid the amount, which I handed over
to Miss Chandler at the same time. She asked what it was for :
I told her, and she expressed her astonishment at the circum¬
stance. As I would not take anything for my trouble Dr. James
insisted on my coming to Marsden and giving two lectures in the
school, which was full, as well as at the church school at Slothurt,
where I gave one lecture, Miss Chandler accompanying me to
each place. As usual, many opinions were advanced, ascribing
the finding the girl to anything but what it was. Some gave
me credit for being cleverer than I professed to be: said I knew
all along where the body was, but wanted it said, “ It was found
by a clairvoyant.” I received the following letter from Dr.
James, the vicar of Marsden:—
Huddersfield, February 27th, 1855.
My Dear Sir.—In reply to your note of the 3rd inst.. 1 beg to state
that Sarah Ann Lamb, who was drowned at Marsden on Thursday night,
the 14th of December last, and whose body, after a fruitless search of three
weeks, was eventually recovered in consequence of information given by
one of your patients at Huddersfield, under mesmeric influence, was
known to me as a member and regular attendant at the Church Sunday-
school. Having carefully examined the parties (her uncle and Mr.
Farrar) who heard the clairvoyant give the information required of her,
as well as those acting upon that information, went in search of the body
and found it.—I am, dear Sir, yours faithfully, (Signed) Dr. Jeune.
H. Hudson, Esq., Lecturer on Mesmerism.
In conclusion, I may add in the first case already described in
T/ie Spiritualist, I told her to go to New Orleans, there wo had
to leave her, not being able to proceed further in search of the
lost cotton. In the second case we could only lead Miss
Chandler to the river where the girl fell in; she appeared to
trace her down the stream, passing through Huddersfield, and
found her where described. Of course many are the opinions
about these phenomena. “ They read your mind,” some said ;
but how could that be when we did not ourselves know.
Surely truth is stranger than fiction. H. Hudson.
Swansea.
An anti-Spiritualist journal called Common Sense (El
Sentido Comm) has been started at Lerida, in Spain.
National Association Ltbraky.—The following works
have been presented by Sir Chas. Isham : Swedenborg’s Prin-
cipia, 2 vols.; Economy of the Animal Kingdom, 2 vols.; Heaven
and Hell, Conjugal Love, and Four Leading Doctiines of the
Hew Church; Reichenbach's Researches; A. J. Davis’s Ref owner;
Telegraph Papei's and Spiritual Telegraph, 4 vols.; and Jung-
Stilling’s Theory of Pneumatology.
Funeral of Mrs. J. H. Conant.—The funeral services
of the late Mrs. J. H. Conant were held yesterday afternoon at
Parker Memorial Hall, and were attended by a large concourse
of friends. The casket containing the remains of the deceased
was placed in front of the pulpit, and immediately above it was
a portrait of Mrs. Gonant. Arranged near by were beautiful
floral tributes of affection. Upon the pulpit were bouquets,
and upon either side stood a floral harp and crown; upon the
platform were numerous bouquets, and the casket wa& flanked
with pots of variegated plants, while upon the casket itself were
laid bouquets and baskets of flowers. The services consisted of
singing by a quartette choir, and appropriate remarks and
prayer by Rev. W. H. Gudworth, of East Boston. After the
services an opportunity was given the friends to view the
remains, and for nearly a quarter of an hour there was a steady
current of people passing by the casket. The remains were
subsequently conveyed to Forest Hills cemetery.—Boston Herald,
Aug. 9th.
^robtnctai j&etos.
. NEWCASTLE.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUAL SOCIETY.
This society is busy making arrangements for Mrs. Tappan’s
forthcoming lectures. Last Sunday night it held a seance at its
rooms in Weir’s Court. The regular mediums were away, so
those present sat for developing purposes, and a young man who
had been a member for about a month was entranced, and made
to speak a little. On Tuesday, last week, there was another
sitting at the same place, and Miss Wood entered the cabinet to
give a materialisation seance. The light was weak—too weak
to see the time by a watch. After waiting about twenty
minutes, a small white figure emerged from the cabinet en¬
veloped in white drapery, but did not come far from the door.
This figure gave its hand to Mr. Rhodes, and took some grapes
of him, but the light was so low that he could not discern the
features. — 
LEICESTER.
MATERIALISATION IN LEICESTER.
Perhaps one of the most remarkable seances that has been
held in Leicester took place at the rooms of the Society for the
Investigation of Spiritualism last Sunday evening. There were
present Mrs. Mansel, Mr. Mullis, Mr. and Miss Bent, a gentle¬
man medium, and others. All sat down at a large four-legged
table, and, after singing, waited patiently in silence for some
time. No signs being given, a hymn was again sung, and another
term of waiting in silence followed. Another hymn was sung,
and the company were about to break up when several distinct
raps were heard on various parts of the table. The heavy table
was now moved, and as one and another asked that the table
might be moved into his or her lap, the wish was no sooner ex¬
pressed than complied with; there was light quite sufficient
to distinguish clearly each face and to see that every hand was
placed upon the table. The Chairman, Mr. Bent, asked if the
controlling spirit would endeavour to materialise a hand to clasp
his own, and distinct raps were given to signify the affirmative.
He placed his hand under the table, while every other hand was
distinctly visible on the table, including those of the medium.
Very soon he felt a gentle touch, as of a soft hand placed on the
back of his own hand. This he at once stated. The medium
seemed half awake, and was in great pain through the disturb¬
ance caused by the excitement of the sitters; he cried out
several times, “ Oh, don’t, don’t.” After a short silence the
chairman asked for the materialised hand to be again placed in
or upon his own. In reply the following words were written by
the entranced medium—<( We have used the medium in order to
materialise for the touch of the hand, but the power is^ now
gone. S. H.” The seance closed with singing.
ELIPHALET NOTT.
To the Editor of “ The Spintualist
Sir,—In The Spiritualist of the 13th inst. your corre¬
spondent “ Clericus,” after describing a seance at which he was
present in Leicester, gives the substance of an address, pur¬
porting to be delivered by a spirit who gave the above un¬
common name, and wishes to know if any of your readers can
give any information respecting this person. I have great
pleasure in stating that the Rev. Eliphalet Nott, D.D., was well
known in the United States, both as a preacher and an author.
One of his last literary productions was a work on the wines
of Scripture, written in the interests of the temperance move¬
ment, of which he was a leading advocate.
I have mislaid the volume, or would have sent you the par¬
ticulars of his life, as it contains a biography of the author, but
will with pleasure send it either to yourself or “ Clericus ” by
post if desired. John Lamont.
199, London-road, Liverpool.
Mr. A. R. Wallace’s Defence of Spiritualism, which
was published in the Fortnightly Review, has just been translated
into German by Mr. G. C. Wittig, and published by M. Alexandre
Aksakof.
M. Oscar Kramer, a strong physical medium at Pots¬
dam, accounts of whose seances "were published in the Psychic
Studies, has been attacked by a German church newspaper, and,
the article is now going the round of the Berlin press. In con¬
sequence thereof, M. Kramer has received numerous letters
from sympathisers owning their spiritualistic tendencies. The
circulation of Psychic Studies will also probably be thereby in¬
creased.
108 THE SPIRITUALIST. Aug. 27, 1875,
SPIRITUALISM m BRUSSELS.
BY J. 3ST. T. ^AETHEZE.
It may be interesting to English Spiritualists to
know that Brussels possesses an excellent medium for
physical manifestations. He is a lad of a very lively
and agreeable nature, thirteen years of age, and the
son of a captain in the Belgian army. As is usually
the case, his mother also possesses medial faculties.
The manifestations the youth has obtained for two or
three months are very much like those of Mrs. Fay,
with a few additions. For instance, while his hands
are bound he has a cigar lighted in his mouth, when a
cigar and a match have been deposited previously in
his lap (as in the glass of water experiment); he also
has the materialisation of hands. The securing of
the medium to rings screwed into the door or wall has
been adopted, as in the case of Mrs. Fay, but to con¬
vince sceptics his hair has very often been also tied
and secured to a ring in the wall. In fact, every pre¬
caution being taken against trickery on the part of the
medium, these manifestations have already convinced
a great many hard sceptics. His parents most grace¬
fully throw open their doors to all those who manifest
an earnest desire to witness these wonderful mani¬
festations, which I believe are not only unique in this
town, but command respect on account of the honour¬
able standing of the captain and his wife. Their only
aim is to convince friends and strangers of the reality
of spiritual manifestations.
I read in a paper yesterday that the bleeding of the
stigmata of Louise Lateau ceased since the arrival of
her sister. What explanation can be given of this ?
Brussels, Aug. 16tli.   
Psychic Studies says that the Baroness von Yay intends
shortly to bring out a new work, in which she will record some
of her remarkable experiences with Miss Lottie Fowler, who is
still sojourning in Austria.
Picnic oe Spiritualists.—On Wednesday, last week,
a party of Spiritualists, in connection with Mr. R, Gogman’s
institution at the East-end of London, went by rail, via Lough-
ton, for a day’s holiday at High-beech, in Epping Forest. It was
a fine day, and all present enjoyed themselves. The thirty-two
members of the company broke into smaller, parties and
wandered into the forest; one of these groups held a spirit-circle
under the trees, and Miss Young, Miss Keeves, and Mrs. Bul¬
lock delivered trance addresses on the occasion. The whole
party afterwards dined at the Robin Hood inn. The day’s re¬
creation was felt to be so beneficial to everybody that it was
resolved to have another outing of the kind next year; also to
get it up with more elaborate preparations and sufficient public
notice beforehand, in order to secure the attendance of a larger
number of friends.
Dr. Sexton at Cavendish Rooms.—The subjectof Dr. Sex¬
ton’s discourse at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-
street, last Sunday, was ‘‘ The Ancient Sentence on Man to Toil and
Suffer,” in which the difference between the civilised and savage
state was dwelt on at some length, and an attempt made to
ascertain by the facts within reach whether the primitive con¬
dition of man was that of a savage or of a civilised being. The
speaker described man in his present condition as “ a splendid
ruin, glorious and noble in his desolation and decay, but still a
ruin.” The orthodox doctrine of the “ fall ” he spoke of as so
absurd as to be hardly worth reasoning about, while the theory
of Unitarfans and Rationalists, that children were born pure, was
equally irrational. One of the most important facts which
modern science had demonstrated was that of the hereditary
transmission of mental and moral as well as physical qualities.
The sentence on man to suffer and toil was described as being
most beneficent in its character, as the only means by which.
man could work out his redemption and restore himself to the
position long since lost. The attendance was good, and all pre¬
sent appeared much pleased with the discourse. On Sunday
next the Rev. F. R. Young, of Swindon, will deliver a lecture
on “ What is Christianity ?”
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
THE 1875 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
will be held in London, at 38, Great Russell-street, W. C., jfrom the 3rd
to the 5th of November.
General Programme.
Wednesday, November 3.—Opening Conversazione. Hours from 7 to
10.30 p.m.
Thursday, November 4.—First Session of Conference, 3 p.m. Second
Session, 7.80.
Friday, Novembei' 5.—Third and Fourth Sessions at same hours.
Subjects for Papers.
1. The Moral Responsibility of Physical Mediums.
2. The Importance of the dissemination of Spiritualism amongst the
Working Clashes as a Religious Influence.
3. Healing Mediumship.
4. Reincarnation; the theories it involves, and the evidence in support
of it.
6. The unreliability of Spirit-communications, and how far this arises
from ignorance, carlessness, or debeption.
6. The British National Association of Spiritualists—the best means of
securing its permanent establishment.
7. Popular errors with regard to Spiritualism.
Other papers on kindred topics are also invited.
All essays to be sent in to the Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
not later than Saturday, October 30.
Admission to Conference, Free, by Tickets,' to be had on application to
the Secretary.
All Spiritualists and inquirers are invited to take part in the conference.
Tickets to Conversazione, Is. 6d. each.
Further particulars in future advertisements.
THE GRAMMAR SCHOOL, DALTON-IN-F0RNESS.
Inclusive Terms: Forty Guineas per annum. A Reduction for
Brothers. Prospectus on Application. Percy Ross Harrison, B.A., Pemb,.
Coll., Oxon, Principal.
Brighton spiritual union rooms, 82, st.
James’s-street, Brighton. Open daily. Seances free on Sundays,
Monday and Wednesday evenings. As there is no Subscription for Mem¬
bership, the Secretary claims the privilege of each Member being known to
him personally before nomination. All Spiritualist publications on sale.
JOHN BRAY, lion. Sec.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERYOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St, Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. J. Coates, Principal.
OOUL READING,*1 or, Psychometrical Delineation
of Character.—J. MURRAY SPEAR announces to his numerous
English Friends that by the aid of Spirit-Intelligences he delineates cha¬
racter, describes mental and spiritual capacities, and sometimes indicates
their future and best vocations for health, business, and harmony. Persons
desiring information of this sort should send him their autograph, stating
age and sex, and forward by Post-ofQ.ce Order Nine Shillings; or for three
delineations to one address, a Guinea. Address: 2,210, Mount Vernon-
street, Philadelphia, Pa., TJ. S.
THE SOUL OF THINGS;
OK, PSYCHOMETRIC RESEARCHES AND DISCOVERIES.
In Three Volumes, Fourth Edition.
By William and Elizabeth M. f. Denton.
“ We have here a marvellous book. It is calm, and seems perfectly
sincere, and yet it makes larger drafts upon our credulity than any work
we ever before met with. The old alchemists never conceived of anything
half so strange. Spiritualism, with all its wonders, is scarcely a vestibule
to what we are introduced to here.
“ Were there any reliance to be placed on these revelations, it would be
impossible to estimate the value of this newly-discovered power. It would
resolve a thousand doubts and difficulties, make geology as plain as day,
and throw light on all the grave subjects that time has so effectually ob¬
scured.”—New York Christian Ambassador.
“ In the varied wonders they describe there is a peculiar and intense
interest. If what is claimed in this book be true, it records the most
remarkable discovery yet made as regards the capacities of the human
mind in its abnormal state."—Norfolk County Journal.
“ There is much extraordinary matter in these pages. It is a volume em¬
phatically deserving of the reader’s choicest study.”—Boston Traveller.
“ Though as concise as a text-book, we read The Soul of Things with the
fascination of a work of fiction. Indeed, it is truth itself, stranger than
fiction, written in the vivid style which is a part of Mr. Denton's remark¬
able power.”—American Spiritualist.
Price 8s. per volume.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38. Great Russell-st., London W.O.
BOARD and RESIDENCE in South Kensington, with
a private family of Spiritualists, for a married Lady and Gentleman
without children, and where no other boarders will be taken. A private
sitting-room will be given where there is a new piano, as also use of other
sitting-rooms, An old library of works bearing upon the subject of
Spiritualism is there. Good bath-room. Three servants kept. Price
£3 8s. per week each person. Good references to be rendered on both
sides. Reply, post paid, R. 0., care of Mrs. Johnson, 41, Great Portland-
street, W.
Aug. 27, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALK AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in "Woburn-streat).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE UANAOER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
k. formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author's views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN T&E PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Iff. Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U'S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about thejperiodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
A Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft- The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spirit¬
ualism to lie diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown 8vo., 16s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents : The Anti-Supernaturalism of the Present Age;
Science'and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the
Believing Spirit: The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science;
the Spirit' and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit: the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts
3 on Spiritualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles and Pneumatology;
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the-Oid Testament and the New; the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. l2mo., 600 pp. Cloth 10s. Od.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrrounded. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this book in " The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt as to the
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would.not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reiiauility of
clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
i on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter
planetary communication should be established, it will be by means of clair
voyauce or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says :—“Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed hi the light of ail the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their instructions.’1
6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. Sd.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell.) 7s. 6d
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits through the
mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is sometimes made by disbelievers
that spirit messages are of a trumpery character, but these beautiful poems
give evidence that all Spirit utterances are not so. The “ The Prophecy of
Vala,” published in this book and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar
Allen Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole of his life
on earth. Best edition. Gilt, 10s. Sd.; cheap edition, 7s. sd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through the medium-
ship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work, is a collection of beautifu
poems. 7s. Od.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H. S. Olcott.
Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. William Crookes and
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author is a literary gentleman of high stand¬
ing in New York, and the book consists of descriptions of seances at which
materialised spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers, their homestead,
and the phenomena presented at theirseances, are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS LIFE. By
Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER WHICH
HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS. By Allan Putnam.
6s.
THE CELESTIAL TELEGRAPH, OR SECRETS OF THE
LIFE TO COME. Proved by many years experiments by means of eight
ecstatic somnambulists. Cahagnet, 10s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST. By Wash¬
ington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces of music
and 560 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams. 6s.
POEMS BY AOHSA w: SPRAGUE, for many years a public
trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet,
with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspirationally through
the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL MAN
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle. This book argues
that man is. contemporary with the Mastodon, and details the history of his
subsequent development. 7s. Cd.
THE - IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS, OR GENESIS AND
GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen. 3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the testimony of
the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a vision of
scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, OR MESSAGES FOR THE BEREAVED
FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY. Christian spirit-messages given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. (Part one), Od.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of, and
advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. fid.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod; 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Od.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. Cs. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. fid.  
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d..
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM.
7s. fid. , ,.,
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
book, containing messages given by Spirits through the Writing Mediumship
of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU, giving
information about Spiritual Phenomena among the Amazulu and other Tribes
of South Africa, by the Bev. Canon Callaway. M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION INTO
THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Thomas P
Barkas
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the Rev.
Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO
MATTER. By 0. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Hugh
Farmer, 1706. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOPATHY; OR, THE TRUE HEALING ART by
Joseph Ashman. Is,
IV
Aug. 27, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM..PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Contains Records
. of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnambulism, and Clairvoyance, and
2 philosophical considerations connected therewith. This work gained the prize
, • offered for competition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at Ts. 6d.) 3s. 6d.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith, formerly Editor
of the “ Family Herald.” (2Vols.) 10s.
"WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS,
The “ Ponghkeepiie Sen'.” s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . ...... . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . . . ,‘.76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . ... . . . .76
The Seer. „ III, „ . , . . . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . . . . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ ... ..76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . . . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . . . .40
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . , . .76
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology . . . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . . , .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . , . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . . , ,40
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . . ..40
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age. . . . ..40
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . . . . .30
Free Thoughts'Concerning Religion. . . , . . .40
Penetralia; Containing fiarmonial Answers . . . . .80
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . . . .66
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained . . . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . . . .60
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime . . . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . , . . , .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology , . . . . ..30
Morning Lectures . . ... . ' . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
8. d,
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recommended by
The Spiritualist Newspaper . . . . . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing interesting particulars
and legends relating to Buddhism . . . . . . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . . .76
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from China to India
(400 a. n. and 618 a. n.). Translated from the Chinese by Samuel Beal,
B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. ” . . . . . . . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus, by the Rev.
Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . . . . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English, with Pre¬
liminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions interpreted by Com¬
parative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . . . . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind, or A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer . .60
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English from the Chinese
Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . . . . . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Explanation of the
^ Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism, Dreams, Trance, SomnambuUsm,
Vital Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous
Congestion, by Robert fl. Collyer, M.D. . . . , .20
The Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, Secretary of the
Legation of the United States of America at Constantinople . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond the Grave,
by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . , . . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North Germany, and the
Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In three vols. . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed. Translated into
English immediately from the original Arabic, by George Sale . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S. Special edition
for Schools .   . . . . . . \. .10
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales Forster. A
useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. New¬
ton. Is.
THE. LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of the Travels
and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev. J. Murray Spear, is.
MEDIUMS AND MED1UMSHIP, by Thomas R. Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Personal Expe¬
riences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a Gentleman of Education
and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Serjeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM NOT
ORTHODOX, by; J. B. Anaell. Judge Edmonds says of this little pam¬
phlet: “There is in it.a good deal of genuine good feeling, sound common
sense, and deep thought.” 6d,
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2d.
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELEBRATED
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie Doten; 4. Mr.
Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich: 6. The late Mr. William White; 7. Dr.
Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M. Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs.
Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY WARD
BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.  ... „ _
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. Q,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1876.
Experiences of hafed, prince of Persia:
Communications in Trance through MR. DAVID DUGUID. With
Introduction and Appendix.
The Subscriber, in response to oft-repeated and earnest request, pro¬
poses to publish these Communications, the accumulation of the last live
years, so soon as the Subscription List indicates that they are wanted by
the Spiritual community.’
The proposed volume will extend to not less than 550 demy 8vo. pages
(the size of the Spiritual Magazine or Human Nature), and will contain,
besides the Experiences of Hafed, about 500 Answers to Questions, many
of these on subjects of the greatest interest; Communications from
Hermes, once an Egyptian priest, afterwards a personal follower of Jesus;
an Introduction, in which is given, along with some explanatory informa •
tion, an account of the Mediumship of Mr. David Duguid, the Glasgow
Painting Medium; and an Appendix, containing very many interesting
communications from Ruisdal and Steen, the old Dutch masters—Copies
of Direct Writings in Hebrew, Greek, Latin, and English—and a Brief
Statement of the Extraordinary Phenomena occurring under Mr. Duguid’s
mediumship.
The volume will be illustrated by 24 Lithograph Pictures, being fac¬
similes of Direct Drawings, the work of the Spirit Artists at sittings spe¬
cially appointed for their production. (For specimens of these see Spiritual
Magazine and Human Nature for May.) Various facsimiles of Direct
Writings will also be given in the body of the work and in the copious
appendix.
The book, which will be got up in the neatest and most substantial style,
will be sent to subscribers free for 10s. Subscribers for 6 copies will
receive 7 copies for the price of 6.
It is respectfully requested that, in the meantime, Subscribers’ Names
and Addresses be sent without delay to Mrs. Everitf, Lillian-villa, Hen¬
don, N.W ; or to Mr. T. BlytOX, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston.
In the Press and will be shortlypublished in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper, .
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in th
tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Scienbe of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Part 1.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Parc III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER;
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERNOSTER-ROW, LONDON; AND
MR. W. H. HARRISON, 38, GREAT RUSSELL-ST., LONDON, W.C.
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Aye Maria-lane London E.Q* .
