A F^ECOF^D Of THE PROQREff Of THE 3CIEJMCE /ND ETHICf OF fP/F^ITU^LIfM.
[EEQ-ISTEBED FOE TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 32.—(VOL. IL, No. 4.)
LONDON: MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1872.
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Threepence.
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY.
For several years past much in the way of rumour,
and a little in the way of official information has reached
us about spirit photography in America, whilst there
has been a total absence of such manifestations in Eng¬
land, hut within the last six weeks in Loudon, spirit-
photography has set in like a flood. Some months
since Mr. Guppy, as an amateur photographer tried to
obtain spirit photographs through Mrs. Guppy’s medium-
ship and failed, though in some instances traces of
abnormal phenomena were visible on the plates, and
over the picture of Mr. Coleman something appeared
bearing a shadowy resemblance to a cross. Mr. Guppy
discontinued his experiments till about six weeks ago,
when in Mr. Hudson’s studio he obtained a likeness of
himself with a veiled figure behind him, as he says,
“ like a person dressed in a sheet.” Mrs. Guppy was
near him, hut behind the screen used as a background
when this was taken. At subsequent trials other veiled
figures were obtained, and at last a portrait of the
spirit “ Katie ” behind Mrs. Guppy and her little boy.
The British Journal of Photography of March 28th,
says of this picture :—
It is a group composed of Mrs. Guppy and her child, and
behind them is seen a female figure in light clothing, grace¬
fully posed, very sharp, and well defined, being in this respect
quite different from any pictures of this class we have hitherto
seen. Some “ expert” professional photographic friends who
have seen the picture are of opinion that the light female
figure could not have been placed on the negative by any
known system of double printing, and hence think that at the
time of the negative being taken the figure must have been
standing behind the sitters. In addition to the assurance of
Mr. Guppy that no such figure was visible to the eye, we have
received an affidavit (dated March 25th, the day on which it
was taken) by Mr. Hudson relative to the picture that was
enclosed, in which he says “ that at the time of my taking the
enclosed photograph, signed by me, there was no human being
in my studio besides Mr. and Mrs. Guppy and their child ;
that Mr. Guppy was behind the dark screen the whole of the
time (eleven seconds) of the photograph being taken, and
that I looked at Mrs. Guppy and child most particularly when
I uncovered the camera, and there was no person visible
except Mrs. Guppy and child.—Fbed. A. Hudson.”
The editor of the same journal also says :—
In the company of a friend—a professional photographer in
the city—we called upon Mr. Hudson, who is a photographer
in the Hollo way-road. We here take occasion to thank him
for the readiness with which he submitted for our examina¬
tion everything in connection with this subject that he had,
including the prints, the negatives, the studio, and the camera.
He informed us that he would not lend, himself to any kind of
deception, and that he really had no idea how the figures
came upon the negatives, which he had treated an every
respect as was his wont. In reply to a question, he said that,
although with strangers he usually turns his back to his sitter
during exposure, in this case he did not do so, and that if any¬
thing had been projected from behind he must have seen it.
We have written to Mr. Guppy, inquiring if there would be
any objection to our being present with a friend when he next
attempted to obtain photographs of this description, and also
whether he would allow us on that occasion to operate on
plates that we should bring with us.
Mr. Guppy’s reply is published in the British Journal
of Photography, of April 5th, as follows :—
Dear Sir,—In reply to the question put by you, as soon
as your health and your time and the weather permit, I will
arrange for you as follows :—You shall take your own camera
and glass plates, and you shall sit for a spirit photograph.
I cannot answer for your getting one, but if you will give time
and patience, and attend to my suggestions, it is very probable
you will get one—if not at once, after a trial or two. You
shall develope it yourself with your own chemicals (this I take
on me to answer Mr. Hudson will allow, at my request, in
your special case).—Yours, very truly, Saml, Guppy.
The editor remarks :—“ This is fair enough.”
. Soon after the publication of the fact of spirit
photographs having been taken, other media went to
Mr. Hudson’s to see if they had power to get them.
They were obtained through the mediumship of Messrs.
Herne and Williams. They failed in the case of Mrs.
Everitt and Miss Florence Cook, though with Miss
Cook good pictures were produced when other mediums
were near. Mr. Slater, the optician, obtained a spirit
photograph. At first, most of the spirit forms were
veiled, though why they should cover their faces when
sitting for a photograph is a mystery. Later on, small
portions of their hands and faces were uncovered, and
they began to appear in front of the sitters instead of
behind them. In no case was anything visible to the
sitter in the place where the spirit forms came out on
the plate, though Mrs. Guppy sometimes saw a flash
like lightning passing before her eyes at the time that
Mr. Hudson took the cap off the lens. In every case,
Mr. Hudson, in accordance with his usual habit.
brought the wet negative out of his dark room, and
showed it upon a piece of black velvet to the sitter, so
that he or she saw the result within two or three
minutes after the plate was exposed. Then he took
the plate back into the dark room and intensified or
“ re-developed” it, so as to fit it for printing on albu-
menized chloride of silver paper, in the usual way.
On critical examination it- is evident that the spirit
forms are illuminated by the same light as the sitter,
and that if any other than reflected or scattered light
comes from these forms, it is so small in proportion as
to be inappreciable. In some cases the spirits have
moved a little during the exposure, and caused just
such a double impression as the movement of a mortal
sitter would have done. How an invisible object can
reflect so many chemical rays is at present inexplicable,
and leads to the supposition that there may be greater
differences between the chemical and less refrangible
rays of the spectrum, than differences in wave-length.
Another point of scientific interest is that things at
first seen only by seeing-mediums were photographed
by the camera. How important this fact is, is proved
by the circumstance that medical men in their ignorance
of psychology often kill or drive mad patients who dis¬
play incipient seeing-mediumship; the doctors, not
understanding the subject, send the victims of these
“ hallucinations ” to a lunatic asylum, where the seer,
at first sane on all other points, is subjected to bad
influences which soon drive him mad in real earnest.
Among the most remarkable spirit photographs at
present obtained are two of Mrs. Guppy and Master
Tommy Guppy, in which the face of a spirit is visible ;
a third in which the spirit “ Katie ” is visible in a
chair near Mr. Herne ; a fourth in which a sheeted
figure appears in front of Mrs. Alfred Russell Wallace;
two in which Miss Cook is entranced, and veiled
figures are standing over her; and one in which Mr.
John Jones, of Enmore Park, South Norwood, has the
spirit of his daughter sitting on the floor, in front of
him, by his feet.
The following letters give further details. We begin
with the one from Mr. John Jones :—
To the Editor of11 The Spiritualist."
Sir,—Hearing that the photographs of spirits were being
obtained in London as well as at Boston, United States,
instead of finding twelve reasons why they could not be done,
I took it for granted there were persons in London as shrewd
and observant as I was, and determined to “ go and see,” as
I had found that nearly all the great scientific discoveries in
nature in past time, had been discovered by unknown persons
called unscientific, and that ]the knowledge was afterwards
appropriated by “ societies,” when generally acknowledged by
the public.
I went, therefore, to headquarters, and saw several photo¬
graphs of persons, several of whom I knew ; and above them,
and beside them, draped figures and parts of figures, so over¬
lapping the solid figures of the sitters as to show that the
draped substances 'were partly in front. Therefore, if trickery
there had been, it was with the knowledge and consent of the
photographer and sitters. On enquiry, the persons solemnly
denied seeing any one at the time. I, though not doubting
the truth of their averments, naturally desired personal
evidence.
As this phase of Spiritualism, so antagonistic to the
“ Psychic unintelligent force,” theorists, had been suggested
by Mr. Samuel Guppy of Highbury, because his wife and he
had experiences of no ordinary kind, as to the personality of
ghosts, I obtained the favour of Mrs. Guppy’s company to
Mr. Hudson’s, photographer, Holloway-road, on the 5th April,
1872, at half-past three o’clock. My son Rupert (age 15),
went with us, and I had given him instructions to remain in the
studio during the sitting, and stand near the camera, facing
and watching me and the screen, so that if any embodied or
disembodied substance presented itself, he might report.
I found that the photographic room was situate in the back
garden ; it was a rough structure, admirably adapted to let in
the cold air in winter, and let out the hot air in summer.
The screen behind the sitter was a seven feet by seven frame,
on which was stretched tightly a kind of felt cloth, neutral
tint. Behind the screen and the outer boarding was a space
about three feet wide. The room for the sitter was, say
twenty feet long by nine wide.
Mrs. Guppy voluntarily went "behind the screen, from which
she could not get out without pushing back the screen, and
holding it to prevent it from falling. By that means she was
out of sight.
I sat down on a chair in front of the screen, put myself in
my usual position, as when at home, which position ran nearly
parallel with the screen. I then turned my head round to the
west, so as to look into the camera at the end of the room,
saw it, and Rupert.
A lively conversation was carried on by us all, till the
moment the photographer said he was ready. Thirty seconds,
and all was over for good or bad. My son and Mr. Hudson
went into the developing room. Mrs. Guppy pushed aside the
screen, joined me excitedly, saying, “ I saw something white
flash across meand then she hurried into the developing-
room.
The photographer was excited, his hands trembling, and
then his cry came—“ Oh ! what is this ? It is spoilt, you
(Rupert) must have passed in front of the camera and spoiled
it. No ! It is a female figure kneeling in front of your
father.” The three heads, Hudson, Guppy and Rupert came out
with the plate, and there, clear and distinct, was the draped
figure of a young girl apparently kneeling in front of me, the
forehead, eyebrow, and part of the face in profile, clearly
shown. My son said, “ It is Marion,” his deceased sister.
We were surprised and delighted. It was the best spirit
picture that had been ever taken. I was, of course, cool, but
the others were like parched peas, all on the jump.
Rupert states he saw no one embodied or disembodied near
me during the sitting; my position was such, that I must
have seen if any “ body ” had been near me.
A ghost, therefore, must have been in the room, and taken,
the position for a purpose. A ghost must have seen and heard
us, and that ghost a human disembodied one. What issues
involved and evolved in the fact, religiously and politically !
Now for the possibility of the ” impossible.” Lockyer, in his
fourth lecture on Spectrum Analysis at the Crystal Palace
last month, showed us on the screen the appearance of the
corona round the body of the sun, at the time of the eclipse, as
seen by the human eye and by the aid of instruments. It
showed the luminosity shedding,—or rather flowing out in—
say, five or six triangular spikes, as we have in the usual
emblem of a star ; and between the interstices there was no
luminosity. He then proved the value of photography by
giving on the screen the corona as photographed, and lo ! the
interstices 'werefilled with luminosity, Lockyer said, “This
proves there is a substance round the sun, so ethereal that the
human eye, even by the aid of instrumeuts, cannot see it.”
If a substance so thick in volume cannot be seen by the
human eye, why refuse credence to the possible invisible
presence of ethereal beings called spirits ?
When I reached home on the evening of April 5th, there
was on the table a packet of six spirit photographs from
America, sent to me by Mumler, the Boston photographer,
who some time ago was accused of deception, tried, and
acquitted. One of the likenesses sent was that of Mrs. Abra¬
ham Lincoln, and behind her, having his hands on her
shoulder, was the shade or ghost of her husband, “the
President.” His son was with him.
“ What a cloud of witnesses ” is coming up in the sky of
life. Longfellow was not wrong when he told us that his
spirit wife:
“ Took the vacant chair beside me,
Laid her gentle hand in mine.”
John Jones.
Enmore-park, South Norwood.
The following was read last Thursday night, at the
meeting of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism :—
To the Committee of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—In presenting to you the follow-1
ing report of my experiences in the above most remarkable and
recent phase of spirit manifestations in England, and in sub-!
mitting for your inspection the accompanying copies of spirit
photographs already taken, it is my wish that the attention of
the members of the association should be immediately drawn
to the facts, and that further experiments should be tried by
individual members. Thomas Blyton, Secretary.
London, E., 9th April, 1872.
“ In the course of conversation during an evening visit to
Mr. Guppy on 12th March, that gentleman showed me some
spirit photographs which he had obtained at Mr. Hudson’s
studio in Palmer-terrace, Holloway-road, through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Guppy, whom he had accompanied there a few
days previously for the purpose of having her photograph
taken. Mr. Guppy explained that, after the sitting was over,
the idea came into his head of trying an experimental sitting
to see whether any spirit friends could so far materialise their
bodies as to admit of the photographing of the same, similar
to the productions of Mr. Mumler, of America. The results
were of a most remarkable and satisfactory character, which
led Mr. Guppy to think that the spirits would succeed with
other media. On the following Saturday, 16th March, 1.872.
I went with Miss Florrie Cook, Mr. Guppy, and a friend of
that gentleman’s, to Mr. Hudson’s, where we placed Miss
Cook, as a medium, behind a curtain, while I sat in front of
the same, in the hope that we might obtain a spirit picture,
but without success, although we had other indications of the
presence of our spirit friends. (See photograph No. 1).
“ On Saturday, 6th April, 1872, I again went to Mr. Hud¬
son’s ; this time being so fortunate as to have the presence of
Miss Florrie Cook and Messrs. Herne and Williams as media,
the latter of whom sat first by themselves, but without any
successful result. Miss Cook then went into the studio, where
she was entranced in a reclining position, Messrs. Heme and
Williams placing themselves behind the screen (which forms a
kind of cabinet), and on developing the plate a draped figure
of a woman was found standing over Miss Cook. (See photo¬
graph No. 2). Having entered the studio, I proposed to sit for a
spirit-picture, and obtained the consent of Messrs. Heme and
Williams to act as media; they were again placed in the
little cabinet, and the screen closed up against it. On giving
a glance at them, previous to taking my seat, we found them
both entranced. I then seated myself close to and in front of
the screen, when the spirits John and Katie King at onc»
greeted me in their usual hearty manner, while Katie inti¬
mated her intention to try and appear with her baby. I urged
them both to do their utmost to produce a good spirit picture.
The plate was then exposed in the camera, when the media
roused up and passed some remarks between each other, while
John and Katie urged them in loud tones to keep still for fear
of spoiling their efforts. Messrs. Herne and Williams were
distinctly heard speaking by me at the same time as the spirits -
26
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 15, 1872.
it must be remembered that what has taken me several
minutes to record here, only took about thirty to thirty-five or
forty seconds to transact between the plate being exposed and
the cap of the camera being replaced. I then went with Mr.
Hudson into his dark room to see him develop my plate, when
there was found on ray right hand side a robed figure with
something in its arms, also a figure on my left, while through
its robes could be clearly seen a second likeness of a portion of
my face and bust. During this experiment Miss Cook was
not present in the studio. (See photograph No. 3). An ex¬
periment was then tried by Messrs. Herne and Williams placing
the tips of their fingers upon the surface of a small table,
which actually rose bodily into the air as high as the media
could reach in full view of Miss Cook, Mr. Hudson, and
myself. The camera was then exposed for upwards of thirty
seconds, when the table fell to the ground, and was broken,
while the media appeared to be considerably exhausted. Miss
Cook stated that during the time the camera was exposed she
saw a white figure apparently sustaining the table, and upon
developing the plate we found a white-robed figure between
the media, apparently sustaining the table ; and a chair,
which had been thoughtlessly placed back one side of the
screen, was found occupied by a spirit form, which was invi¬
sible to me at the time the experiment was being made.
During this experiment both Miss Cook and myself were at
one side, and close to the camera ; while the media were at
the screen end of the studio, and in full view of us. (See
photograph 4.) I then sat twice in succession for a private
photograph, when in the second sitting, while Miss Cook and
Messrs. Herne and Williams were in front at one side, in full
view of me, a flower was seen by them fluttering over my
head. On developing the plate a hand with a flower in it was
observed over my head. (See photograph No. 5).
We have also received the following from Mr.
Guppy:—
Sib,—Many personal friends, and also friends whom I have
not yet the pleasure of being personally acquainted with,
have sent money to Mr. Hudson and requested me to select
psychic-force cartes for them. These orders are in course of
execution as fast as the printing allows, but the demand has
been such that I have been unable to get copies for even my
most intimate friends. Several Americans have been to Mr.
Hudson and carried them away. I wish to state to those
friends that they do not lose by the delay, as every two or
three days some more striking spirit-photographs have been
obtained. The way I have managed is this : Mr. Hudson
sends me the first-proofs immediately, and I put them under a
glass and number them, so as to be able to select. Underneath, I
give you the list you asked for of the spirit cartes already taken.
I wish to mention that the getting these pictures is not the
plain straight-forward work of taking portraits. It is subject
to all the vicissitudes, which Spiritualists know, are connected
with every spiritual stance. No one can determine what sort
of manifestations will take place. Miss Houghton has sat
nine times, and at each time a different manifestation (I sup¬
pose I must call it) has occurred. It is very fortunate that
I had two taken of the most remarkable photograph of my
wife, child, and Katie, for it is one thousand to one against
exactly such another occurring. In the. one my wife’s face is
turned towards the spirit, she says that ,at the moment of
taking she saw a light, and involuntarily turned her head to
it; in the other her face is turned towards the child. It was
very unfortunate that Mr. Hudson used a new bath, and so
(artistically) spoiled a very beautiful picture. Not only that,
but if he had had a bath, the working of which he knew, there
is no doubt Katie’s face and hands and drapery would have
come out much better. However, there it is, and can’t be
amended. If a photographer takes a passing cloud with a
bad bath, he can’t get the cloud back again to amend it.
Samu&l Guppy.
JAst of Psychic Cartes taken by Mr. Hudson, Photographer,
117, Holloway-road.
Taken March 4, 1872, No. 1, the first in England, Mr.
Guppy with wreath and veiled figure.
2. —March 4, taken quarter of an hour afterwards, Mr.
Guppy with another singular white figure.
3. —March 4, taken quarter of. an hour after, Mr. Guppy’s
curious figure after altering the curtains to admit of their
opening.
4. —March 7, Miss Houghton, with spirit figure and hand,
which Miss H. felt pressing her shoulder while taken.
5. —March 7, taken quarter of an hour after, Miss Houghton,
with spirit figure, in which traces of face.
6. —March 7, taken quarter of an hour after, Miss Houghton,
With handle of dagger, in points, over her head.
7. —March 14, Miss Houghton, with dim figure behind, and
a white tablet on her lap which the spirit brought from outside
while she was being taken.
8. —March 14, Miss Houghton, curious white figure behind
her head.
9. —March 14, Miss Houghton, with a hand over her head,
the thumb pointing to a family ring on the third finger con¬
nected with a relative she lost at the wreck of the Carnatic.
10. —March 20, Mr. Harrison, with a very distinct hand
Over his head.
11. —March 20, Mr.  , with rose on his shoulder and
traces of spirit hand holding it.
12. —March 25, Mrs. Guppy, little Tommy, and Katie.
13. —March 25, Mrs. Guppy, ditto, in different attitude.
14. —March 28, Miss Houghton, with willow palms in her
hair.
15. —March 28, Miss Houghton, with bright spirit cross over
her head.
16. —April 1, Mr. Heme, with table and flowers in the air.
17. —April 1, Miss Cook, entranced, spirit figure.
18. —April 1, Miss Kislingbury, with strange figure very
bright.
19. —April 3, Dr. —-—, with female figure, very remarkable.
20. —April 3, Mr. Herne, with most remarkable figure.
21. —Mr. Heme, with most remarkable female figure, the
features and hair well defined.
22. —Mr. Heme, with distinct spirit figure of his brother; a
beautiful specimen.
23. —Miss Houghton, entirely obscured by a veiled figure
with flowers singularly beautiful.
24. —Miss Houghton and vested figure, curious.
25. —Mr. Slater, optician, nearly covered by fine spirit
figure.
26. —John Jones, Esq., with singularly bright figure and
face.
27. —Miss Cook completely entranced, with figure in black,
dress covered with something like white muslin over it.
In a note which we have just received, Mr. Guppy
says that he will once more fit up his own apparatus, and
with a large lens and large plates, will try at home to
ascertain the best conditions for obtaining spirit photo¬
graphs.
Mr. J. F. G. Whiting, of 224, Kentish-town-road,
N.W., informs us, by letter, that a medium of his
acquaintance has just begun to obtain spirit photographs.
Up to the time of going to press we have received none
of the pictures, and received no detailed particulars, so
are unable to give any statement or opinion on the
subject. We called on Mr. Whiting, hut he was from
home, and had taken the pictures with him.
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN MATTER AND
SPIRIT.
The following address, given by the guardian spirit of Mr.
jp. J. Morse, trance-medium, was delivered at a private circle
at Croydon, on the 14th February last. It was taken down at
the time by a member of the Society of Friends, Mr. Edward
T. Bennett, of The Holmes, Betchworth, and was published
by him in the last number of The Christian Spiritualist, from
which journal we quote it:—
It is all important that we should understand the mystery
of ourselves; who we are; and why we exist. The stone of
the alchemist is still to be discovered; and will yet be found
in the hand of every individual man. The touchstone of
knowledge turns all into gold.
The physical theory that life is a compound of matter,
and the result of organism, is absurd on the face of it. There
is a power within the organism which works it. The intelli¬
gent principle in man works the physical organism. It is by
means of the organism that the man himself comes into
relations with the physical sphere. But the physical organism
has other purposes, besides those which relate to the fulfilment
of its duties in reference to the present life.
If the man continues to live after the death of the body,
it is necessary that he should be the same individual; else
where would be the good of the experiences and lessons he
learnt in bodily life ? It is necessary that there should be a
rational state of existence, and an intelligent appreciation of
existence. It is still necessary that there should be some
means by which the real man should come into relations
with his surrounding conditions. Hence the necessity for a
spiritual body.
The elaboration of this spiritual body is a function of the
physical organism. This is the most important of its other
purposes to which we alluded.
The most refined process which is ordinarily recognised as
going on in the physical organism is the elaboration of nervous
force. But is it really so? No. We have often asserted that
matter is continually refining and subliming itself. Every
atom may be said to he struggling upwards, and to be glowing
with the eternal divinity within it. Atoms of matter in the
body are continually refining and subliming themselves. The
nervous forces are but the pointings towards Spiritual realities.
A still further refinement is going on, resulting in an elabora¬
tion of what we must call the essences of matter; and which
essences are deposited or precipitated in a form which appears
as a silver lining within the mortal frame. This silver lining
begins to be deposited before birth, and proceeds all through
life, until a perfect image is formed from head to heel. This
is the spiritual body.
As old age comes on, the vital energies retreat more and
more from the external. The aged do not lose intellectual
power. The loss is only apparent. The life withdraws
inward. Then when the physical body can no longer hold
the spiritual, death takes place. The body yields up the
departing spiritual form. In the spasms of death there is no
pain. That is, in normal death. But how few die naturally
and normally! The spiritual body passes away from the
dying body. Were our spiritual eyes now opened, we should
see the atoms of the spiritual body falling into harmony
according to their elective affinity—head and features arrang¬
ing themselves into an organism analagous to the physical.
The man is the same individual as he was before. Were it
not so, the lessons of his past life would be valueless.
Actual defects and malformations of the physical body
are not reproduced in the spiritual; because they are the result
of external causes, not of internal life, whereas the spiritual
body is the result of principles acting upon essences.
The new organism is substantial, is material. Therefore
it must have a world to exist in. This necessitates the exist¬
ence of an interior state of being—not interior in position—
but interior in principles. This state of being does exist, and
is what we call the spiritual world. Where is it found ? How
is it formed?
Refined particles of matter are continually being thrown
off in immense quantities from the physical earth. The pro¬
cesses which we call life, in all its forms, higher and lower,
result in the conversion of matter, from its gross physical
form, into its refined spiritual form. Matter, and, indeed,
every element—oxygen, hydrogen—may be said to have its
material and its spiritual side. From the sphere of physical
life, the material side only is perceived; but those who have
passed over to the spiritual side and who are living on the
spiritual plane, perceive the spiritual side, and realise it as a
higher condition. The tendency of the refined matter, that
has been thrown off from the physical earth through long
ages, and which process is now going on, is to form itself into
a zone, which surrounds the earth, and is in reality part of it.
This is the spiritual world which man enters at the death of
the body. Life and all that makes life glorious ultimates
itself there again into form. There, as well as here, the
world is of necessity denser or more gross than its inhabitants.
There are several methods by which humanity may find
this out for itself, and become satisfied of its truth. In the
first place every man possesses an immortal spirit, and there¬
fore a direct knowledge is possible. Secondly, the spiritual
beings existing in the interior condition have but to bring
about the old conjunction between themselves and the
physical world, in order to be able to manifest their presence
and power, to the physical organs of those still living on the
material plane : that is, to produce ‘ spiritual manifestations.
If it be asked, is it desirable that the mortal should now see
into immortality, and that the powers of man’s interior nature
should even now come into active play—we must answer—Yes
and No. It is desirable only for true men and true women.
But where are they to be found ? The exercise of the normal
faculties of the spirit in the mass of mankind would lead to
the most disastrous consequences and would be productive of
a fearful amount of idiotcy and insanity. But still we look
forward to the time, when men will be so raised above their
present state and condition, that they will be able to realise
that they walk hand in hand with angels.
In thus endeavouring to tell you of things which may seem
new, and which you may not be able to accept, we ask you to
bear with them, and claim your indulgence for our imperfec¬
tions and obscurities. We, as well as you, are children study¬
ing the mysteries of creation, and ofttimes feel nigh over¬
whelmed with a sense of the majesty of being.
DR. CARPENTER ON BLUSH-WRITING.
Mr. T. Blyton, Secretary to the Dalston Society of
Enquirers into Spiritualism, has sent us the following
letter for publication:—
56, Regent’s-park-road, N.W.
March 16, 1872.
Sib,—I cannot but feel extremely surprised that you have
thought yourself justified in giving publicity, without my ex¬
press sanction, to a correspondence in which I allowed myself
to be drawn, in the belief that you were simply and honestly
seeking for scientific information.
The last of my letters was the only one you had any right
to publish ; since it was this only which had reference to the
subject of your original inquiry, as specified in the concluding
paragraph of your first letter. And even this you ought not
to have published, until you had applied the information to
the purpose for which it was given, namely, the detection of a
suspected fraud. By its premature publication, you have put
it out of your power to utilize it in the manner specified in its
last paragraph ; since, if “ blush writing ” be a trick, the per¬
formers will not now subject themselves to the detection
of it.
I think it well to add that the Editor of the “ Spiritualist,”
in the note he has appended to my letters, misstates what he
calls my “ theory.” On the two occasions on which I saw
Mr. Foster produce the “ blush-writing,’’ the names had been
previously written on papers at the table at which he was
sitting, and in both instances the names were those written by
the person directly opposite to him, the movement of whose
pencil he could easily follow, even if the writing was con¬
cealed from him. When the names were written on another
table, the backs of the writers being turned towards Mr.
Foster, no “ blush-writing ” was produced.
These being the simple facts of the case, every one can
draw his own deductions from them.
As you have published my previous letters, I should wish
the same publicity to be given to this one.
I am, Sir, your obedient Servant,
Thus. Blyton, Esq. William B. Cabpentee.
On reference to the correspondence in our last it will
be seen that Mr. Blyton in his first letter told Dr.
Carpenter he corresponded with him for the purpose of
publication, and in a subsequent letter it will be seen
that he again reminded Dr. Carpenter of that fact. It
will also be seen that Dr. Carpenter refused to reply to
the first letter, and would only reply to one of the in¬
termediate ones; therefore it was necessary to print
those intermediate ones, for Dr. Carpenter’s last letter
could not have been given as a reply to the first one,
which he had refused to answer. Further, to any un¬
biassed reader the whole correspondence appears to be
interesting and to be intended for printing; it is not
clear to any such reader what Dr. Carpenter wishes had
been kept back. The best way to stop tricks is to publish
how they are done, and upon this plan the Dalston
Society has always acted.
Mr. Blyton sent a courteous reply to Dr. Carpenter,
in the course of which he said :—
The Committee did not think for one moment, from the
tone of your letter, that you would object to the publication
of the entire correspondence. The ‘‘private ” communication
of 13th inst., addressed to me, was of course retained in my
possession; and, in the concluding paragraph of the same, I
now read : “ This is for yourself alone—of the other you can
make what use you think proper.” But previous to the receipt
of your letter of the 16th inst. the word other, in the above
extract, had been construed from the peculiarity of its finish
as others; which on my reporting to the Committee induced
them to resolve on publishing the correspondence complete for
the benefit of enquirers.
lu tbat part of the Quarterly Review article which,
brings unfounded charges against an innocent man,
Foster is alleged to have had two ways of getting at
the names of deceased relatives of strangers whom he
met for the first time. In the one case it is asserted
that when the stranger called over the letters of the
alphabet, when he came to particular letters he gave
unconscious indications, which Foster could read, of
those letters being the right ones. The other assertion
was that he got the names by watching the motions of
the top of a pencil while the bottom of it was concealed
from view. People who made real investigations into
the nature of Foster’s mediumship wrote the names
before they went to him, and took them in their
pockets.
In the last number of the Quarterly Journal of
Science, Mr. A. R. Wallace says :—
“ Mr. Owen also saw much of Mr. Foster, the medium,
who has names written on his hands and arms. On
one occasion Mr. Foster extended his hand upon the
table; it was perfectly free from any mark whatever.
Gradually a faint red mark appeared on the wrist, which
increased till it formed the letter F, remained visible
two or three minutes, and then faded away. This was
the initial letter of a name Mr. Owen had secretly
written on a piece of paper, and folded up tightly,
and which was mixed with about twenty others on the
table. Dr. Carpenter tells us (in a letter published in
The Spiritualist of March 15, p. 21) that this is done
by first tracing the writing on the tense skin with a
April 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
27
hard point, and then rubbing the place to bring out the
red blush. But unless we are to believe that Mr. Owen
and the late Dr. Robert Chambers, as well as many
other careful observers who have narrated their ex¬
periences with Mr. Foster, all make grossly false or im¬
perfect statements, this explanation by no means covers
the facts; as will be admitted by all who read Mr.
Owen’s narrative, or the evidence of Mr. E. L. Blanchard
given at page 135 of the “ Report of the Committee of
the Dialectical Society.
SPIRITUALISM IN NORWICH.
A Lecture on “ The Influence of Spiritualism on Religious
Life ” was delivered at Norwich, in the large room of the
Free Library, on Tuesday evening, March 26th, by Mr. C. W.
Pearce, of London. The audience was a large and intelligent
one, and great interest was manifested throughout. The chair
was taken by Mr. Thomas Everitt, of Penton-street, London.
Mr. Pearce said'—In order to mutually understand each
other, it will be well to define at the outset both Spiritualism
and religious life ; and as you will be asked by my friend the
chairman to question me, should you so wish, upon any por¬
tion of my address, after it is ended, you must bear in mind
the definitions advanced ; as questions only in accord with
these definitions can be entertained. It is necessary to be
thus careful, because there are many here who hold dissimilar
views concerning both Spiritualism and religious life; and
they might propound questions based upon their opinions
which might not be in harmony with those upon which this
address is founded, thus the object of this address might be
frustrated. The term Spiritualism, as used to night, is intended
to m ean the active acceptation of the doctrine taught by Paul, of
the ministry of angels. By religious life is not meant a formal
adherence to any of the four or five hundred sects into which
those professing religion have separated themselves, which
profession often covers a hollow heartless mockery of all true
religion, being made to advance self and not the brotherhood;
but an actual loving the neighbour as we love ourselves,
manifested by doing to them as we would they should do to
us. All who do so, whether they be heathen or Christian, so-
called, live a true religious life, and belong to Christ’s Church,
though the heathen (?) may never have heard of His name.
This doctrine of the ministry of angels is enunciated by Paul
in the opening of the Epistle to the Hebrews, and has been
theoretically believed in by the Christian Church since its
establishment; but for centuries past it has been, except to
the very few, a dead letter. If the knowledge that spirits
minister to us were of no real use, the great Apostle would not
have enunciated it in the opening of his epistle. Its use is
found in the influence which a knowledge of the realities of
the after-life brings. Of this use we may be assured; all
scripture being given by inspiration of God, and it is profitable
for instruction, that the man of God may be perfect and
thoroughly furnished. It is well that you should know the
relation which angels, spirits, and men bear to each other.
A reference to Heb. i. 13, 14, will show you that the Apostle
uses the terms angel and spirit synonymously. Men, after
death, are termed spirits, therefore angel, spirit, and man, are
but terms which express different degrees of one and the same
being of man. In Revelations xxii. you will find this clearly
shown. The Apostle John had been shown the New Jerusalem
by a being designated an angel, and he fell down to worship
the glorious being. This worship the angel refused, saying he
was but one of his brethren, one who had once been a prophet.
Evidences of the presence and ministration of spirits amongst
us, similar in kind to the evidences given by the spirits or
angels of Bible times, are being frequently given by our
friends who have passed through the change called death.
These evidences, which the Church, calling itself Christian, so
generally either refuses to accept as facts ; or accepting, refers
them wholly to satanic agency, afford the most powerful argu¬
ments to convince the sceptical world of the truthfulness of
the Bible records of similar occurrences. Who can deny the
carrying of the Apostle Philip through the air, a distance of
over twenty miles, as mentioned in Acts viii, 27, when the
levitation, or transportation, of Mr. Home, Mrs. Guppy. Mr.
Herne, Mr. Williams, and Miss Fowler, is vouched for by a
score or more of trustworthy witnesses, myself being one of
them. The possibility of the handwriting on the wall is seen,
(Dan. v. 5), when communications on the truthfulness of the
Christian religion have heen written at the rate of 100 to 150
words in a second of time in the house of your chairman, and
in the presence of eight or nine witnesses, myself being of the
number, and all testify that no mortal hand touches either the
pencil or the paper. The lecturer read from the Spiritualist of
March 15 one of these communications, numbering 588 words
written in sixty seconds. No difficulty inbelieving that the Lord
Jesus Christ entered into the room in which His disciples sat
at supper, mentioned in John xx. 19, need now be entertained,
seeing that many times within the past twelve months absolute
evidence that the body of a man can be passed through a
brick wall by the power of spiritual beings, as easily as we
can push our fingers through a paper hoop, has been given by
the spirits passing Mr. Herne, Mr. Williams, and others from
one room to another—and from one house to another—the
doors being shut and locked. That an angel could cause the
iron chains with which Peter was chained when in prison, to
fall off from him (Acts xxii. 7), and that an angel could cause
such a shaking of a building as would open all its doors, as
one did when Paul and Silas were imprisoned (Acts xvi. 26)
can now be made apparent to even the scientific sceptic; for
solid iron collars, only just large enough to fit the neck com¬
fortably, have been put over the head of a man, and they have
had to be filed through, to release the medium ; and your
chairman here has had his house so violently shaken that he
has had to rebuild the front. And all the records of angels
speaking to mortals are paralleled in the present day. In
the house of your chairman, between one and two hundred per¬
sons have at various times conversed with one or more spiritual
beings in a voice as audible as that in which I address you. These
are only some of the many evidences of the nearness of those
who have gone before, and their power to minister to us, with
which the present generation is favoured by the providence of
the Lord. Men see that there is no death ; families remain
united, though part are here, and part have gone before ; and
true Spiritualists, in view of the awful realities of the hereafter,
strive to do the Lord’s willj that His kingdom may come, and
His will may be done, on earth, as in heaven.
After the lecture, questions were asked by the audience.
Some of the answers appeared to give satisfaction, others did
not. Many persons warmly thanked the chairman, and said
they should like to hear more.
MR. WALLACE ON SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
The last number of The Quarterly Journal of Science
contains a long and interesting review by Mr. A. R.
Wallace, tbe eminent naturalist, of tbe Hon. Robert
Dale Owen’s new book, The Debatable Land (Triibner
and Co.) From tbat review we make tbe following
extracts:—
“ Mr. Owen spent an immense deal of time in trying
to discover that gross imposture, the spirit rap, but in
vain ! For this purpose he once lived for a week in a
medium’s house, with full power to investigate. He
walked all over the house with the medium, but the
raps came everywhere. They sounded on the floor,
walls, or ceiling of every room, on every article of
furniture, on doors and windows, on the marble mantel¬
piece, and the steel grate. With the same medium they
occurred on board a steamer, on the stool he sat on, on
the keel of a small boat in the water, on the ground out
of doors, on trees, and on rocks by the sea-shore.
With every test that he could apply, he could find
no physical cause for these sounds. Sometimes
they occurred as delicate tickings, at others like
blows of a sledge hammer—so tremendous that it
seemed impossible any article of furniture could resist
them : yet the table on which they resounded showed
I not a scratch! On almost all these occasions the rooms
were searched, the doors were locked, and the mediums
were held fast; yet Mr. Owen could never find out the
trick! How strange, when the thing is said to be so
simple that our men of science will not even take the
trouble to refute it!
“ In the matter of table moving he had no more suc¬
cess. When Faraday exposed table-turning, he remarked
that experimenters who thought tables even rose in the
air should suspend them in a balance, and see if the
weight was affected by this supposed force. Mr. Owen,
at the suggestion of the late Dr. Robert Chambers, did
this. Together, they suspended a table, weighing
exactly 121 lbs., about 8 inches from the floor, by a
powerful steelyard : two mediums were present, whose
feet and hands were attended to; yet, without any con¬
tact whatever, the table, when requested, became lighter,
coming down to 60 lbs., having thus lost half its weight;
when requested to be made heavier it weighed 144 lbs.
What are we to make of this ? Two thoroughly reliable
witnesses and a balance tell us one thing; but men of
science say it can’t be true: which are we to trust ?
5}: * * * * * *
“ We have devoted so much space to a sketch of Mr.
Owen’s book, because, in the first place, it merits notice
as a literary work of a high class; and in the second, it
brings prominently before us what is either the most
gigantic and mysterious of delusions or the most im¬
portant of truths. In either case it deserves a full and
fair discussion. Neither is such a subject out of place
in a scientific journal, for, in whatever light we view it,
it is really a scientific question. If a fallacy or a delu¬
sion, it is of so wide-spread a nature, and influences
such numbers of well-educated and even scientific men,
that we have a right to demand of science a full and
satisfactory exposure of it. If a truth, then it is cer¬
tainly, as Mr. Owen maintains, a science of itself; a
new science, and one of the most overwhelming import¬
ance in its bearings upon philosophy, history, and reli¬
gion. It is now becoming almost a common thing to
acknowledge that there is a certain amount of truth in
the facts ; with a proviso, always, of the writer’s repu¬
diation of the spiritual theory. For my own part, the
only thing that makes the facts credible on evidence is
the spiritual theory. Mr. A., or Prof. B., or Dr. C.,
may state that they know certain of the facts are true,
but that all these facts can be explained without calling
in the aid of spirits. Perhaps they can. But why
should I, or any other reader, accept A., B., or C.’s,
facts, and reject Mr. Owen’s, when the former are not
one whit more intrinsically probable, or supported by
one iota better testimony, than the latter ? Yet these
latter actually/orce upon us the spiritual theory, just as
the facts of geology force upon us the belief in long
series of ancient living forms, different from those now
upon the earth. I must accept all the equally well-
attested facts, of equal intrinsic probability, or reject
all. I cannot believe in Cretaceous fossils as realities,
and reject Silurian as freaks of nature; neither can I
accept the facts B. may have witnessed, and reject those
of the rest of the alphabet. Yet if all the main classes
of facts are admitted, the spiritual theory appears as
clearly a deduction from them as the theory of extinct
animals follows from the facts presented by their fossil
remains. The position of the Quarterly Reviewer is,
that there are no facts worth speaking of, and, there¬
fore, no true spiritual theory can be founded on them.
This is safe ground, as long as all the evidence for the
facts is carefully denied, misrepresented, or ignored.
But when there are ten thousand witnesses to these
facts, of whom say nine thousand are as good and com¬
petent as A. or B., it is not safe ground for A. or B. to
admit just so much of the facts as they have witnessed
themselves, and reject the rest. The problem we have
now to solve is—how much of the facts are true. Till
this is done by some better test than individual ex¬
perience, it is premature to discuss what theories may
or may not explain them. In the meantime, let no
one prejudge the question till they have studied Mr.
Owen’s facts, and carefully weighed his arguments.
“ Alfred R. Wallace.”
A NEW MEDIUM.
We extract from Human Nature for March some particulars
about a new painting medium, Mr. Charles Swan, aged four¬
teen, the nephew of Mr. Thomas Wilson, ironmonger, Market-
square, Aylesbury, who gives the following account of his
relative’s development:—
“ The mediumship of my nephew commenced about six
years ago, in the following accidental manner. He was suf¬
fering very much from toothache, and, having just read some¬
thing of Spiritualism and healing mediumship, I said, in
sport, to my wife, that I would try my healing powers on the
boy. I accordingly placed one hand on his head, and with
the other commenced stroking down his face on the side where
the aching tooth was located. In a few minutes he dropped
off to sleep, and I laid him on the sofa. In a short time I
perceived his hand moving about in an extraordinaay manner;
but having read Barkas’s Outlines of Spiritualism, given me
by a relative from Newcastle-on-Tyne, I had made myself
acquainted with some of the phases of mediumship—that of
writing amongst the rest. I accordingly put a pencil into
the boy’s hands, and immediately there was rapidly written,
1 Let the boy alone; he is all right.—Mary.’ I asked the lad
what he meant, when he replied through the pencil, ‘ It is not
the boy who is writing, but I, your sister, dead now about
twenty-two years! ’ After he had lain on the sofa about two
hours, his hand again wrote, giving me instructions how to
awake him. I did so, and the first question the boy asked
was, ‘ Where is that lady who has been laying hold of my
hand ? ’ I desired to know what he meant; and he described
the form, features, and every particular of outline, height,
and size of my deceased sister, as accurately as I could have
done myself. The toothache had also vanished. Since that
time he describes the particular controlling spirit who influ¬
ences his hand as standing by his side, and placing one hand
upon his. Though, entranced, he knows that his hand moves
about, but he cannot tell afterwards whether he has been
writing, drawing, or painting. After discovering his medium-
ship, I got a few friends to assist me from time to time in
sitting at the table. One of these friends, Mr. Parker, has
continued to sit with us very regularly from the first down to
the present time. In this way nearly all the various phases
of mediumship have been produced—table moving, rapping,
seeing spirits in the trance, and so on.”
In April last the boy commenced painting, and since then
he has produced upwards of fifty works, some of which are
found to be copies of Turner’s paintings in the National
Gallery.
The editor of Human Nature says:—
“ The works are done in quick time. The large copy of
Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage, 4 feet by 2 feet 4 inches (half
the size of the original in Turner’s collection), was done
between the 14th and 24th December last, and eight other
smaller ones were done in the same time. Turner said he
painted them to use the paint on his brushes after working on
the large picture.
“ The mediumship of Charles Swan, when compared with
that of David Duguid, presents many dissimilarities. In
Charles’s case it is highly abnormal, as the organism of the
medium seems to be used almost automatically without any
independent intellectual effort on his part, and he does not
speak in the trance, but acts like a machine. In the case of
David there is an apparent exaltation of the faculties of the
medium, and an approximation to normal action. He speaks
in the trance, his face indicates various emotions, and the
process of control is understood to exercise an educational in¬
fluence on him as a medium.”
We have not seen, anything of this medium, or of the
paintings, but have received the following letter about them
from Mr. Swinton, of 5, Cambridge-road, Kilburn:—
To the Editor of the “ Spiritualist."
Sib,—In the remarkably clever and deeply interesting col¬
lection of “ Spirit paintings ” done by the youthful Charles
Swan whilst entranced, at the house of his uncle, Mr. Thomas
Wilson, of Market-square, Aylesbury, may now be seen a
beautiful life-sized ideal of a Grecian maiden, said to have
been painted under, the inspiration of the late Sir Charles
Eastlake. The writer is not sufficiently conversant with that
distinguished painter’s style to speak of the similarity to it of
the charming work referred to; but for chaste conception,
harmony, and delicacy of colour, refinement and grace of
form, the picture seems to me admirable.
It is a three-quarter face and bust, of the Grecian type, with
a light clear complexion, ample dark hair, and well-defined
eyebrows. The tenderly-refined, regular features, somewhat
pensive soft hazel eyes, and rather drooping eyelids, have a
singularly attractive sweetness. The hair is simply bound
close to the finely-arched head, without ornament of any
kind. To the small right ear visible, a tasteful little blue
pendant is attached, and a brooch of similar colour, and
equally elegant form, holds together a finely-worked white
vesture that conceals the bosom, and covers rather high (but
not too high) the neck of the maiden. Her light pink-coloured
dress is covered, it would seem, by a shawl of silvery grey
colour, which drapes the well-sloped shoulder. It is a picture,
the spirituality of which grows upon one greatly by contem¬
plation, and its dull blue background, darkened at its lower
part, seems remarkably well-toned and appropriate.
The prepossessing young medium, through whose agency
the varied pictures forming the collection named have been
painted, is only fourteen years of age, and he certainly dis¬
plays a power in art that might shortly do honour to the walls
of the Royal Academy. A. C. Swinion,
Aylesbury, March 1,1872.
Spontaneous Generation.—The decision of English
philosophers who have recently given attention to the subject
is against the hypothesis of spontaneous generation, and in
favour of the hypothesis that living organisms are produced
only from other living organisms. A recent number of The
Proceedings of the Royal Society contains a description of
some chemical experiments by Mr. Walter Noel Hartley, F.C.S.,
tending to prove that the continental supporters of the former
hypothesis based their opinions upon imperfect data. The
spirits, through Mr. Morse’s mediumship, teach that all things
live and grow, but that minerals relatively grow so slowly, that
modern philosophy erroneously concludes they contain no life
within them.
28
THE SPIKITUALIST.
April 15, 1872.
THE THEOLOGICAL AND THE SPIRITUAL
ASPECTS OP DEATH.*
It can scarcely be doubted—so I think the future
apologist might very fairly argue—that at the period
■when Spiritualism is said to have been introduced into
the modern world as a new system of belief, the popular
faith in the immortality of the soul had, to say the
least, become extremely vague. It is true that sermons
by the cartload were preached on the subject, and
prayers were offered up, and inscriptions were carved
on tombs, and resurgams put up in front of houses, and
the tenet was nominally held by hundreds of Christian
sects ; but to those who penetrate beneath the surface, it
is clear that the kind of belief evidenced by these facts
was of a very loose and unsatisfactory character—that
it did not come home to the hearts of men with a sense
of definite reality. The literature of the period, when
carefully examined, and still more the language and the
habits of everyday life, will confirm this view. For all
•that men talked of immortality, they had not risen
much above the savage theory of death, that it is an un¬
mitigated evil. It was not merely that men as a rule
carefully avoided putting themselves in the way of death,
and that even the bravest among them used their utmost
efforts to escape from it when imminent and when es¬
cape was honourable; for to do this much would appear
to be a duty, having a natural instinct for its motive
power; but that they treated death, when it had fallen
on one of theirs, as the end of all things, as an irrepar¬
able misfortune, as an event which the survivors were
never to cease deploring till time had in some degree
mitigated their sufferings. It would be impossible to
explain on any other theory the sorrow, often ending in
a settled melancholy, of a Christian parent at the loss
of his baptized infant child—an event which must
necessarily be viewed as an infinite gain to the child so
removed. Nor can we otherwise explain how a believer
alleging himself to have a settled assurance of eternal
happiness, and with no ties to bind him to the earth,
Should so generally have exhibited the greatest disincli¬
nation, and even loathing, to exchange a bed of suffer¬
ing for a throne of glory. “ Resignation to Grod’s will,”
“ Kissing the rod,” “ Bowing beneath the stroke,” was
the kind of language used to designate the spirit in
which the invitation to eternal glory should be accepted.
Every sentiment and expression connected with death will
he found deeply tinged with this sort of scepticism. If two
religous missionaries were upset out of a boat into the
Ganges, and one reached the bank, Tie was providentially
saved: it would have been a sort of blasphemy to assert
that the other was providentially drowned ; life being
the gift of God, and death, as it would seem, being sent
specially by the evil one. This erroneous philosophy of
life and death leavened everything. With many, not to
be. in the flesh, i.e., not to be in this world, was to be
ijon-existent, if there is any meaning in words. How
this crops up in countless passages, which seem to come
from the writer’s inmost soul without his noticing it!
The motto of many of them seems to be that of
Mecsenas, “ Yita dum superest, bene est.” This casual
reference to antiquity may remind the reader that many
Christian apologists have quoted passages from the
Greek and Latin authors as evidencing their disbelief in
a future state, and the consequent necessity of a revela¬
tion.f But every single passage that can be so quoted
may be readily paralleled by one from a so-called
Christian poet. If Moschus says “ 'Ev<5o/xe£ tv fiaXa
fjLctKpbv arsp/xova, vryyptrov virvov, and Catullus, “ Nobis
. . . nox est perpetua una dormienda ; ” in Sir Walter
Scott will be found almost precisely the same expression
—“ Soldier, rest: thy warfare o’er, sleep, the sleep that
Tcnows no waking.” If in Seneca’s tragedies we find,
Post mortem nihil est; ” Byron describes the day of
death as “The first dark day of nothingness.” The
ancient poet who Sang “*A\yoe yap ovtwq ovS'tv cnrrtrai
vttcpov,” is almost literally rendered by the writer in
“ Keith’s Elocutionist,” so extensively used in schools—
“ How sweet to sleep where all is peace, where sorrow
cannot reach the breast.'” And this light might be ex¬
tended indefinitely. Bryant, in one of his poems, speaks
of himself by anticipation, when no more, as one
“ Whose part in all the pomp that fills the circuit of
the summer hills, is—that his grave is green” No such
idea as this could ever have come into the head of a
Spiritualist poet. In every poet and prose writer of the
period similar passages will be found, and the language
of everyday life was replete with sentiments of the like
kind. The dead man was spoken of as “ Poor Mr. So-
and-so.” The grave was jjjjj The last long home.” “ The
sleep of death” was a common expression. “ If poor So-
and-so could only see this! ” a form of words used
every day, was by implication an affirmation that under
no circumstances could the spirit of the departed be con¬
scious of what is going on in this life. No wonder that
when these views were prevalent, the grave was sur¬
rounded with everything calculated to inspire horror
and melancholy, and that just as the Romans marked an
auspicious day with a white stone, and clad themselves
* We quote this from Hints for the Evidences of Spiritualism, a valuable
little book -written by a well-known Member of Parliament, and published
by Messrs. Triibner and Co.
J See Gregory’s “ Evidences of the Christian Eeligion,” Bohn’s edition,
pp, 39, 30.
in white for their festive ceremonies, so the deepest
black should be used to stamp death as the most in¬
auspicious of events on the Christian mind.* Even
putting it that there was a general belief in a hereafter,
there was no definite realisation of what the term
meant, no bringing home to one’s self that the friend
who departed from this world yesterday was really as
much alive as those he left behind him. There was
even a doubt among many religious people as to whether
there was any conscious existence at all between death
and the resurrection.!
Nor, in considering this subject, can we fail to notice
that there had arisen about this very time a considerable
•number of persons who altogether denied the truth of
divine revelation, and, by consequence, anything
like an assurance of a future state. Only a few years
before the rise of modern Spiritualism, a nation, in many
respects the foremost in the world, had gone a step
further, and on the walls of the capital of Europe might
be read the words, “ Death is an eternal sleep.” “Ma
demeure sera Men tot le neant” said Dan ton, when
asked for his address before the Revolutionary Tribunal.
The teachings of the Great German philosophers Hegel,
Schelling, and their disciples, Fuerbach, &c., were fatal
to any conception of individual immortality. The old
beliefs which had sustained the Christian world for
eighteen centuries were evidently enfeebled, and the
attacks on them had increased in number and in power.
What is still more remarkable is, that these attacks, for
the first time, came in great measure from within. Of
the celebrated Essayists and Reviewers, six were clergy¬
men of the Established Church. A colonial Bishop and
an Independent minister assailed the whole Penta¬
teuch,which means that they assailed the whole Christian
system; for with the fall of Adam goes, the necessity
for the atonement, and, indeed, everything that is dis¬
tinctive in the Christian dogmas. Well might the Dean
(Goulburn) of Norwich exclaim—“ The frightful
prevalence of Sceptical views among all classes of the
community, and the alarming fact that even among the
clergy themselves insidious objections to the ‘ things
which are most surely believed among us’ are gradually
winning their way, seem to make it imperative upon all
persons and societies entrusted with the guardianship of
the faith to make some definite effort to stem the evil”
(Preface to “ Pleadings for Christ,” three discourses by
the Bishop of Peterborough). At or about the very
time when the worthy Dean was bemoaning himself in
this fashion, an ex-Bishop of his own diocese was pub¬
lishing pamphlets under the headings “ Free Discussion
of Religious Topics,” “ Another Reply to the Question,
‘ What have we got to rely on, if we cannot rely on the
Bible?”’ “A Reply to the Question, ‘ Apart from
supernatural Revelation, what is the prospect of man’s
living after death ? ” &c., in a series of publications,
where his name figures by the side of those of Professor
F. W. Newman, Mr, Yoysey, Mr, Moncure Conway, Dr.
Kalisch, and other equally well-known Free-Thinkers.
Wherever we look we shall find evidence of the rapid
progress of infidelity, and the testimony is strongest, not
in the pages of professed sceptics (who might be ex¬
pected to magnify their own success), but in the utter¬
ances of orthodox watchmen like Dean Goulburn. Mr.
Farrar, in his “ Witness of History to Christ,” tells us
that in the previous century the attacks on Christianity
were rare. “ It is not so now,” he writes in 1871;
“ we are, as it were, in the very focus of the storm. It
is not that every now and then there is a burst of
thunder and a glare of lightning, but the whole air is
electric with quivering flames.” He adds, further on,
that the most vital principles of Christian doctrine have
to be defended against whole literatures, against whole
philosophies” (p. 6). And so Mr. Mozley speaks of
the “ intellectual movement against miracles ” (“ On
Miracles,” p. 2), and Mr. Liddon informs us that “No
one can doubt the existence of a wide-spread unsettle¬
ment of religious belief” (Preface to second edition of
“ Divinity of our Lord,” p. 15); and again, in terms as
strong as those used by Mr. Farrar, he exclaims, “Never,
since the first ages of the gospel, was fundamental
Christian truth denied and denounced so largely, and
with such passionate animosity, as is the case at this
moment in each of the most civilised nations of Europe ”
(p. 498). Every one in the least degree acquainted
with that age must know that cries like these were
constantly heard from the clergy and ministers, and,
moreover that they were justified by facts. To allude
to only one more authority: The most intellectual people
* Compare with all this the account given of Mrs. Mowatt’s funeral in the
Spiritualist of August 15,1870. She was a distinguished American actress
and authoress, whose remains were interred in Kensal Green Cemetery on
the 25th of the preceding month. .“ In accordance with her own wishes, all
the grim paraphernalia of death were dispensed with. A simple snow-
white coffin was home, to the grave, followed by a band of loving friends,
who wore no external sign of grief, and who strove rather to rejoice over
her triumph than selfishly mourn their own loss. The grave was decked
with flowers, and the coffin strewn with lilies, in remembrance of the
| Lily ’ that had been gathered from the garden of earth to bloom henceforth
in heaven.” The lady’s death is announced in these terms—“ On Thursday,
the 21st of July, the spirit of one who was beloved by a wide circle of
friends, both in England and America, was tenderly removed to a higher
I world.”
t Of course the state of feeling with regard to death, adverted to in the
text, was not Confined to the nineteenth century. But it is not here, alleged
that Spiritualism would not have met a want, if it had been introduced at
any previous time; simply that it met a want at the time when it was intro¬
duced, and it is shown further on that there were some particular circum¬
stances in that age which would render its appearance specially welcome
to mankind.
in Europe at that day are generally supposed to have
been the Germans. A competent observer, writing in
1870, represents the middle, and even a large portion
of the lower classes in Prussia, as “ estranged from
the religion of their ancestors.” Public opinion in
Protestant Germany denied miracles, and had even gone
so far as “ to negative the efficacy of prayer, and with
it the interference of the Almighty in the course of
events” (“Religious Thought in Germany,” pp. 11—15).
And, as relating more particularly to our present sub¬
ject, I must notice a passage at p. 27 : “Most, indeed,
profess to believe in God and immortality; but if you
examine their opinions more closely, you will easily
discover they have but confused notions on the relations
between the Creator and mankind, and even deny or
ignore the duty of aspiring to a more definite knowledge
on the subject.” “Men who have had a university
education scarcely dare go to church, lest they be taken
for hypocrites or sentimental enthusiasts ” (p. 37).
PROFESSOR PEPPER ON SPIRITUALISM.
Me. J. H. Peppee, P.C.S., is now giving some scientific
entertainments at the Egyptian Hall, Piccadilly, and the fol¬
lowing is an extract from one portion of his advertised pro¬
gramme :—“ Professor’s Pepper’s dark and light seances.—Is
Spiritualism a reality ?—A violin and other instruments, and
a hand, icy cold, float mysteriously amongst the audience.—
The spirits reply from the furniture.—Genuine scientific in-
vestigationsiP-Other mysteries and unfathomable contradic¬
tions, which time alone can solve.” Accordingly, it was with
a certain amount of interest we responded to his invitation to
be present at a private rehearsal on Saturday evening, March
30th. One of the lecture-rooms at the Egyptian Hall had
been tastefully repaired and redecorated, and fitted up as com¬
fortably as a drawing-room, to make it suitable for the enter¬
tainment which in future will he given therein.
Mr. Pepper said that he and Mr. Tobin were going to care¬
fully take up the subject of Spiritualism, and to go into it very
fully, but before dealing with it on that occasion, he would first
show how the eyes could he made the fools of the other senses.
He then described the nature of light, telling how Newton
adopted the idea that light consisted of small particles shot out
with amazing velocity from the luminous body, and so great
was his authority that his “ emission ” theory of light had it all
its own way among philosophers all over the globe. Dr. Thomas
Young, however, believed the “ wave ” theory to be the right
one, and that light consisted of the, wave-motion of the inter¬
stellar ether. Young did not confine himself to mere words,
but made experiments which finally demonstrated the truth of
the wave theory. How, said the lecturer, was it known that
this ether really existed, as it cannot be seen, weighed, or
measured? When the electric light is produced under the
vacuum of an air-pump, the waves of light find their way
through the vacuum to the eye, so there must be something
inside the glass bell-jar to transmit the wave-motion. Encke’s
comet, a very light body, is gradually drawing nearer to the
sun, as if by the loss of energy caused by the influence of a.
resisting medium in space. Dr. Balfour Stewart had made
some experiments at Kew Observatory with a disc of
aluminium, which he made to rotate rapidly under the vacuum
of an air-pump, and a certain amount of heat was developed
in the disc, a part of which heat was apparently caused by the
friction of the metal against the ether.. Dr. Balfour Stewart
did not commit himself by asserting that explanation of the
fact to be the true one, although it is at present the best hypo¬
thesis to account for the inexplicable result. Mr. Pepper then
made several brilliant experiments on the retention of vision
by the retina, proving that luminous objects seen by the eye
leave an impression for a fraction of a second after the object
itself is removed, and these impressions of unreal things might
be described as spectra, or ghosts. At the conclusion of the
experiments on the retention of vision, wMch were good ones,
and made chiefly with burning magnesium, he called attention
to the curious property possessed by Bologna phosphorus, of
glowing beautifully in the dark for several minutes after it has
been exposed to a strong light. He said that the manufacture
of this substance was to some extent a secret, as the best
varieties could not be made in England, but were imported
from abroad. He then turned to the subject of Spiritualism,
stating that from what he had to say on this head, Ms friends
might think that some sudden change had occurred in Ms
own opinions about Spiritualism, so as to throw a doubt upon
his previous teacMngs; but, to use Faraday’s expression, his
utterances were always guarded by the proviso, “ So far as we
know at present.” He supposed they knew that the subject
was one which must be approached with caution and diffi-.
dence ; it was well-known how he had previously ridiculed and
despised Spiritualism, but from the fact that there were ten
millions of Spiritualists in America, and one million m England,
it was evident that it deserved very careful attention. It did
not follow that if scientific men said it was nonsense, that it
necessarily was so. He proposed to separate Spiritualists into
three divisions. First into those who perform for the sake of-
gain or money,* who are tricksters and impostors, and who
should be taken into a court of law. Professor Pepper added,
“ I have only been once to a stance of tMs kind, where tricks
were performed for the sake of money. On another occasion,
I was invited by a gentleman of wealth to go and see a medium,
because, said he, ‘ I have been disgusted with what you have
Said against Spiritualism.’ ‘Anything to pay ? ’ ‘ Nothing to pay,
all ladies and gentlemen.’ I accordingly went with Mr. Tobin,
thinking it best to take a witness. TMee ladies and three
gentlemen were present, and when I entered the room my
risible faculties were excited, because just at that moment Mr.
Tobin, who was behind me, gave me a poke in the back. I
was introduced not by my own name, but as Mr. Pope. They
took up the carpet and gave me every opportunity of examining
everything; then they put down the carpet, and put us in dark¬
ness. It was pitch dark, for I found that I could not see my
* Manifestations draw upon tlie vitality and nervous energy of a medium
to a very large extent, so that those who sit very often have no strength
left for other work; neither Professor Pepper nor anybody else has a right
to take away the time and strength of poor mediums without paying them,
any more than to take a pair of boots from a shoemaker without paying
him. There are only two or three paid mediums for physical manifesta¬
tions and two or three paid trance mediums in the whole of the United
Kingdom. If the little remuneration they get—who can show that they
have powers conferred upon them from the higher world—proves them to
be impostors, what must be the moral condition of paid preachers, who
have no such powers, yet receive millions of pounds of public money, and
hold vast tracts of British land?—Ed.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April 15, 1872.
own hand when it was placed a few inches before my eyes.
They said, ‘ Oh, I hope the spirits will come to us to-night.
Dear spirits! ’ My friend fully expected to see his deceased
wife. Presently one said, ‘ There is the spirit of Katie near
you.’ Another said, ‘ Look at that star on the carpet.’ I
looked, and there was a spot of light. The medium, who had
just arrived in London, I will call ‘ Clara.’ There were trains
of fire passing through the air from the spot where Clara was
sitting. Anybody may do this by dipping a finger in a con¬
cealed bottle of phosphoric oil; when you go home try it for
yourselves. Moreover, if a drop of it falls on the carpet and
you stare at it hard, it will appear to move. My friend said,
‘‘ My wife’s spirit has kissed me.’ Then commenced what was
to me the most blasphemous part of the proceedings, for they
began singing hymns, and some of the voices were rather
.strong. Somebody had risen from a chair and got upon the
table, and I was told that Clara was going to float. As she got
upon the table she drew her chair up after her. I first felt
over the table for the legs of the chair, and found them; then
I felt for Clara’s feet, but did not find them. It was a chair
with a skirt over it, and the proprietor of the garment was
standing on the chair. She had slipped down her skirt. Some¬
body said, ‘Clara is going up to the ceiling.’ Candles were
lighted, and there was poor Clara at full length on the floor,
for she had slipped and come down, probably, upon a soft part
of her person and not upon her legs as she intended. ‘ Oh,
'Clara, why did you not have more faith in the spirits, and they
would have floated you ? ’ Clara’s hoots were in one corner of
the room, and their fall had made two loud thuds which we had
previously heard. They put out the candles, and sang again.
She took a pencil from me, and in a few minutes there was
some tapping upon the ceiling in one corner of the room; she
might have scrambled up by the shutters and made the marks
which resulted. I reached over and touched a lady with two
of my fingers. She said, “ The spirits are touching me.”
I did that three times, and each time she said .that she was
touched by a spirit she knew. Then another garment belong¬
ing to a lady was in Mr. Tobin’s lap, not mine. This class of
Spiritualism I mean to take up first, and to deal with it as
fortune-telling. Next I will speak of those who do not perform
for money. Are there not other motives ? A desire for ap¬
plause ? A desire to create wonderment ? A desire to feed
vanity ? My sister, who is the wife of a clergyman in Hamp¬
shire, recently wrote to me that their bells rang every night.
I said, “ It is the servants.” A woman was taxed with it; she
confessed that it was so, and it was found that at her last
place she had done the same thing. The mystery of the
Stockwell ghost who threw plates about, was explained in the
same way. Unpaid mediums have their vanity fed by hearing
it said, “ Do you know that celebrated person who converses
with spirits?” The affidavit which Mr. Home made before
the Lord Chancellor is remarkable; it begins thus:—“ I was
born in Scotland on the 20th March, 1883, and from my child¬
hood have been subject to the occasional happening of singular
physical phenomena in my presence, which are most certainly
not produced by me or by any other person in connection with
me. I have no control over them whatever; they occur irregu¬
larly, and even when I am asleep. Sometimes I am many
months, and once I was a year without them." The last remark
shows that this is a very slippery subject; if a Spiritualist
puts himself in my hands for experiments, he might say, “My
power left me while I was with you.” Mr. Home further said
in his affidavit:—“ Some of the phenomena in question are
noble and elevated, others appear to be grotesque and undignified.
For this I am not responsible, any more than I am for the many
grotesque and undignified things which are undoubtedly per¬
mitted to exist in the material world. I solemnly swear that I
do not produce the phenomena aforesaid, or in any way what¬
ever aid in producing them." Mr. Novra published an excel¬
lent article in Once a Week, in 1860, describing various
methods of getting raps, which methods we a.re going to show
our screen. The modes of getting raps are legion, and the ear
is. very deceptive as to the direction from which the sounds
come.. The third division of my subject will deal with ex¬
perimenters who do not declare that they are believers in
Spiritualism, but who are searching after any facts which may
underlie it. One of these searchers after truth is my friend
Mr- William Crookes, a fellow of the Royal Society, whom I
have known for twenty years; he is the editor of the Chemical
flews and of the Quarterly Journal of Science, and in a recent
number of the Quarterly Review he has been very unfairly and
severely handled, because of his recent experiments. He is a
philosopher. Mr., Varley, Mr. Wallace, and Lord Lindsay,
who testify to very strange things they have seen, are also
men beyond suspicion, and they are experimentalists who are
quite willing to work it out to the end. If they will allow me
and Mr. Tobin to join their committee of inquiry, we are
ready to investigate fairly, and to publish the results in the
newspapers. Those who have the alleged powers ought to
assist scientific men ; but what is to be done, if they say,
“ We have lost power for three months.” That, to my mind,
is the greatest difficulty we have to encounter, but it might
perhaps be got over by calculating an average for the year,
showing the proportion of time during which, according to
past experience, they ought to be in power. Mr. Crookes’s
experiments were wonderful. The power passed through a
basin of water to a board, and afterwards exerted pressures of
-ten or twelve pounds on that board, and an accordion was
played in his room without hands. A luminous hand has
been seen to float through a room, a coral necklace has reared
itself on end like a serpent, and a lath raised itself and floated
in the air in the front of the observer—a friend of mine,
whose veracity I cannot doubt. The same friend told me that
he had seen Mr. Home in his chair floating about an inch
from the ground; he had also seen a curious light illumi¬
nating a nosegay. His veracity is undoubted. I should say
to a medium, “ Meet me in a philosophical spirit. Meet me
in the presence of two medical men, who shall undress you,
and you shall put on a garment which I will give you, through
which we can see your arms and hones, and then let us see
if we can get raps.” * Mr. Tobin and myself are prepared to
go into this question, to give our attention to it; as a scientific
practical man, I will go fully into it, and put what I see in the
public journals. Mr. Tobin tells me that it is now so late we
had better not attempt to give the rest of the entertainment
to-night, but come next week and see what we can do in the
shape of spiritual manifestations.
. Last Thursday week we went again to see Professor Pepper’s
dark seance. There was a good attendance. His lecture was
We advise Professor Pepper to sit for manifestations with his own
family, as the members of the Dialectical Society did, and when medium-
ship appears in one or more of the members of his family, then he can
apply those tests which he mentions above, provided his relations meet him
“in a philosophical spirit.” Mr. Tobin may be a medium, for he looks like
one; & so, let him develop his powers by forming a circle in his own
homo, then go before Professor Pepper’s medical friends, and don the
garment which is said to have the remarkable" optical power of making his
ibones visible.—Ed. .
much the same as that delivered on the previous Saturday.
He said that he did not approach Spiritualism in a spirit of
dogmatism, or in a spirit of scepticism, but in a spirit of
honest inquiry. He was surprised to find out, though, that
Spiritualists could not agree among themselves, for a lady
from America, who, he was informed, was a greater medium
than Mr. Home, told him that they did not believe in things
floating through ceilings. He had recently been introduced
to a lady medium in the Egyptian Hall, and while she was
talking to him raps came from under his own feet, then from
other places, including the gallery opposite. They told him that
this lady had the power of producing raps where she pleased.
He then said that he would give what might be called imi¬
tations of spiritual manifestations. He placed a table and
drum in a conspicuous position by themselves, then put the
theatre in pitch darkness. Raps and scratches then came
from the table and the drum, probably because an assistant,
concealed near them, tapped and scratched them with his
fingers. Then, in the light, a violin was cleverly suspended,
apparently in mid air, over the platform, a long way from the
observers, and a hand, stuck at the end of a rigid rod coming
from the ceiling, was made to rub the fiddle with a fiddle-bow
fixed in the fingers. Somebody behind the scenes then played
a second violin, as if to make the listeners believe that the
sounds came from the instrument before them. Next, with
the theatre in darkness, a luminous hand was seen swinging
I about over the platform, and a little in front of it. It was
probably a glove, stuffed with sawdust, then dipped in phos¬
phoric oil, and moved about at the end of a stick. It was
very slightly luminous, perhaps because the glove was too
cold, and it gave off volumes of luminous smoke, which would
have suffocated the company had the experiment been per¬
formed in a small room.
He said that in future entertainments he should introduce
fresh Spiritualistic experiments, but as yet the preparations
were not complete.
Messes. Heene and Williams now hold their public
seances at 61, Lambs Conduit-street, on Monday and Tuesday
evenings.
One or two seances at which spirit faces have been seen,
have been held at Mr. Guppy’s house since last month, but
the manifestations were less striking than those already
recorded.
Last Saturday Mr. Jones and his two daughters obtained
a very remarkable spirit photograph through Mrs. Guppy's
mediumship. Two spirits appear on the plate in front of the
sitters, and the faces of the spirits are well defined.
The delay in the formation of the Psychological Society
has been caused chiefly by the absence of Lord Lindsay in
Italy ; it proposed to invite him to take the presidency of the
Society. Mr. Serjeant Cox is working actively in the matter
of the formation of the council.
Spieittjalism in Dalbton.—Last Thursday night, at
the general meeting of the Dalston Society of Inquirers into
Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E., Mr. T. Wilks,
president, occupied the chair. After the transaction of much
routine business, it was resolved to hold public meetings for
the discussion of subjects connected with Spiritualism, or
public seances with powerful mediums, once a month. It was
also resolved that the terms for honorary membership be a life
payment of three guineas, or a quarterly subscription of five
shillings. Mr. T. Blyton, the Secretary, read a report on spirit
photographs, which will be found in another column; the
photographs themselves were exhibited and examined with
considerable interest. There was a large attendance of ladies
and gentlemen, and the proceedings were characterised by
great unanimity.
Me. J. W. Jackson.—About a fortnight ago, Mr. J. W.
Jackson, one of the pioneers of mesmerism in England, and a
fellow of the Anthropological Institute, passed to spirit life.
His labours on behalf of mesmerism have made their influence
felt throughout the whole nation, and to this day the lectures
he delivered several years ago in the leading towns in Wales
are remembered and spoken of by those who heard them as
having removed many popular prejudices against mesmerism
throughout the whole principality. He was a co-worker with
Dr. Eiliotson and the late Professor Gregory of Edinburgh,
and Mrs. Gregory proved to be one of the firmest friends he
had in his declining years, for it is sad to relate that there is
no doubt that anxiety about pecuniary matters hastened his
decease. It is thought desirable that Spiritualists should take
charge of his son, a little boy, and keep him at school for some
years, thereby also greatly aiding Mrs. Jackson; and those
who will contribute annually towards this object are requested
to communicate with Mr. J. Burns, 16, Southampton-row,
London, W.C.
Me. Geeald Massey on Spieitualism.—Mr. Gerald
Massey’s forthcoming lectures on Spiritualism will be deli¬
vered on four successive Sunday afternoons at St. George’s
Hall, Langham-place, Regent-street, commencing at three
o’clock precisely. The first one will be given on Sunday,
May 12th. As these lectures will be delivered during the time
of the “ May meetings,” when there are many provincial
visitors in London, and as Mr. Massey possesses such high
abilities as a lecturer, there is reason to expect a good attend¬
ance not only of Spiritualists, but of persons unacquainted
with the matter. The subject of Mr. Massey’s first lecture will
be “ Facts of my own Personal Experience narrated and dis¬
cussed, together with various Theories of the alleged Pheno¬
mena.” The charges for admission will be found in our
advertisement columns. Mr. N. F. Daw, Portman Chambers,
Portman-square, is Secretary to the committee. Exertions
should be made by Spiritualists in all parts of London to
secure a large attendance.
New Manifestations.—Last Saturday night, at a semi-
public dark seance at Messrs. Heme and Williams, 61, Lambs
Conduit-street, streaks of bright light from two to three
inches long, and of a phosphorescent character were seen
rising from the tops of the heads of the mediums. Then the
light gradually spread over their heads till all their hair was
visible, and dark hands were seen in the luminous smoke,
apparently drawing the brighter streaks of light out of the
centres of their heads. Then near Mr. Williams the name of
a spirit was written in the air in large letters of light, and
Mr. Clifford Smith, who was present, knew both the spirit
and the handwriting. While some more letters were being
written with great velocity, there was a flash and a sharp
snap like an electrical discharge, and the whole room was lit
up for an instant. Then for a time all was in darkness, after
which, behind Mr. Herne, one of the veiled figures seen in the
spirit photographs became visible from head to waist, the
drapery being all phosphorescent, but the appearance lasted
only a few seconds. The spirit Katie said that before long
she would make herself and her face visible to the whole
circle.
29
^oetrg.
in memoeiam.
Foe Viim no minister’s chant of the immortals
Eose from the lips of sin:
No mitred priest swang hack the heaving portals
To let the white soul in.
But age and sickness framed their tearful faces
In the low hovel’s door,
And prayers went up from all the dark bye-places
And shelters of the poor.
Not his the golden pen’s or lip’s persuasion,
But a fine sense of right,
And truth’s directness, meeting each occasion
Straight as a line of light.
The very gentlest of all human natures
He joined to courage strong.
And love out-reaching unto all God’s creatures,
"With sturdy hate of wrong.
Men failed, betrayed him, hut his zeal seemed nourished
By failure and by fall,
Still a large faith in human kind he cherished,
And in God’s love for all.
And now he rests, his greatness and his sweetness
No more shall seem at strife;
And death has moulded into calm completeness
The statue of his life.
"Where the dews glisten and the song birds warble
His dust to dust is laid,
In nature’s keeping, with no pomp of marble
To shame his modest shade.
The forges glow, the hammers all are ringing;
Beneath its smoky vail,
Hard by, the city of his love is swinging
Its clamorous iron flail.
But round his grave are quietude and beauty,
And the sweet heaven above;
The fitting symbols of a life of duty
Transfigured into love. Whittier.
MjpptimiXicircEl
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
THE EFFICACY OF PEAYEE.
Sir,—The space placed at my disposal last month was
barely enough to enable me to answer one of the questions
put—“ What can be expected from the prayers of one single
individual ? ” That question was answered by my personal
experience. I could have added very many narratives placed
at my disposal, but Secularists are so fond of their “huts”
and “ ifs” that I avoided travelling beyond self.
The power of individual prayer being proved, the logical
sequence is, that the second question,—“ What can he expected
from the prayers of a small congregation ?” has its answer
through the proved power of one person ; therefore, when two
or three, or three hundred join as one, the power cannot be
less.
During the period of the “ Revivals in Ireland,” in 1858,
signs and wonders were felt and seen. One wonder was,—In
the air was seen a “ red cloud.” It floated along, stayed, and
rested over, and then descended on a crowd of people praying
for the Divine blessing. The cloud re-ascended, floated on,
again stayed over, and then descended on another crowd of
praying people ; and so it continued. This floating, descend¬
ing red cloud was seen by all the people, and by others from
the windows of their houses. It descended only over the
supplicants.
These facts were attested by the Moderator of the Pres¬
bytery and by other ministers and witnesses. So much for
small and large congregations.
During those Irish revivals, some English Christians in
London determined to pray to God for the “ conversion” of
their relatives and friends. Full of faith, full of love, they
made a list of those they felt most anxious for. They took
the first names on the Hst. Those persons were somehow
seized with “ awakenings.” As the original list became thus
reduced, other names were added: children and adults were
seized when by themselves, and the results were—answered
prayers. Those earnest Christians were persons moving in
the upper classes of society.
With such facts, think you that the querulous sneer of
Secularist “ bigots” can have any power to mar confidence in
the “ unchangeable” love of our Father, who has given the
inanimate elements of Nature for the use of the animated
intelligences He is ever supporting?—for man, who has a con¬
tinued existence as a spirit, after disruption from his present
body? I say, No.
The fact that a man knows how to make a chest of drawers,
or a machine; or to perceive a law in action, weaving itself
through chemical substances,1 animate or inanimate, does not
make him the perceiver of all laws, all substances, all intelli¬
gences. Science envelops all substance, but the partial
knowledge by any man of a minute division, does not give
him the right to talk and write, as if he were a living embodi¬
ment of all knowledge. As a rule I have found scientific men
narrow-minded. It is with them,—“Nothing like leather,”
and the leather is their finite division of the Infinite. The
Royal Society Fellows are at present a type of the class.
The “ Unchangeable ” no more alters His laws to answer
prayer, than a doctor alters the laws in Nature, by giving one
inanimate substance to his patient to destroy the unhealthy
action of another inanimate substance.
I cannot refrain from referring to Mr. Varley’s sentence,—
“ The nation is awaking out of the darkness of bigotry and
superstition into the daylight of pure reason." Reason would
seem to our friend to be a globe with an atmosphere, working
in its orbit, instead of a mere human faculty, or judge-power,
which decides according to the evidence put before it. Give
it fresh evidence, and it may reverse its judgment.
No man has a right to brand other men with “ superstition,”
till he knows all mystery. As to “ bigotry,” every man has an
equal right to remain firm to the judgment he has formed
from the evidence his faculty of “pure reason” has had put
before it. Has Mr. Yarley’s reason not decided that things he
once called superstitions are not so to him now ? He has no
right to call others superstitious, because he has not their
knowledge. It behoves us all to be less dogmatic till we know •
all things. John Jones.
Enmore Park, S.E.
Sir,—I am much interested in the correspondence concern¬
ing the efficacy of prayer, and I beg to offer my mite should
it prove of any use or value, to those of your readers, who, like
myself, know but little of the manifestations of modern
Spiritualism.
I was sitting some few ei’enings ago, by myself at a table ;
my wife in the rooin sitting apart. I had very strong move-.
30
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 15,1872
ments, and as my spirit friends had no message to give that
night, I was directed to keep up a general conversation, which
at last turned on the subject of prayer.
I knew the controlling power present was in favour of
prayer, from the various injunctions we have received to
“ join in prayer, Sec.” As soon as the subject was spoken of by
me, the table I was sitting at moved along the floor up to a
sideboard cupboard on which were some books, and called my
attention by giving four tilts (the usual plan). I touched
each book consecutively, but there was nothing there that
threw any light on the subject. I was told then to look in
the cupboard, and as soon as my hand touched an essay on
phrenology the table gave three strong tilts. But as I could
not see any connection between the essay on phrenology and the
subject of prayer, I asked if the controlling powers present
understood my remarks ? “ Yes.” So I read a little of it,
and then saw the drift of it, and after a little close question¬
ing, I found that what they wished to convey to my mind was
“that a person’s thoughts and actions in regard to prayer,
were very much determined by his phrenological develop¬
ment.” I was pleased with the manifestation, because it
showed me that there were unseen intelligences behind the
scenes who knew I had written the essay, what it contained,
and where it was, which I did not just at that moment.
Kilburn. ' J. T. R.
SPIfilTTIALISM AT HOME.
Sib,—It appears to me that facts relating to Spiritualism
are as much needed as ever, although your paper has already
supplied valuable and authentic ones in abundance. A learned
professor speaking on Spiritualism, the other evening, in his
own house, to an equally learned assembly, made the follow¬
ing remark:—“ The only possible rational proof of a future
life is to be found in facts such as Spiritualism professes to
announce. To any particular person his own subjective
impressions may be as good as rational demonstration, but
valid proof requires evidence of a different order, and there is
no known process of reasoning that can issue in such a con¬
clusion, except that which starts from Spiritualism as its
groundwork of facts.”
Those facts I wish now to string together as briefly as
possible, which appear to me to meet this want.
Since I last wrote to you, we have removed into a new
house which has been built for us near, but away from this
village. Before we left the old one (last December), the
medial power among us had much increased, especially in
intelligent rappings upon the table, which came at almost
every meal, and were most interesting to all of us. One even¬
ing, it was chiefly a development of physical power. As I
arrived home from .the city later than usual (about seven
o’clock), I found all sitting round the table at tea, and the
servants at the door looking on. Rather unusual, that!
“ Our little group,” as we now call the four spirit children
who have passed away, had been moving and lifting the table,
so that the lamp had to be removed, and care exercised to
prevent breakage of crockery. I sat down like the others,
well clear of the table, and soon the locks of the table (a long
dining one) were unbolted, a leaf liberated, lifted up, and
gently slid down on to the floor by the side of the table.
These manifestations and others frequently occurred at the
old house, but in December, on removing to the new one, they
ceased. We sat, as usual, in circle oncea-week; and although
my little son was entranced, the power was manifestly weaker,
and we thought the medial power was ebbing away. But a
new phase began. On Wednesday evening, on returning with
my wife from our week-evening service, we were told someone
had been ringing the bell, and then run away! The following
Wednesday it rang again, while one of our family was stand¬
ing at a bay window which commands a sight of the hell-
handle, and no one teas there. And so it went on every
Wednesday for weeks, to our amusement! Sometimes one,
two, or three different bells at the same time.
At tea one evening, our friends, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, were
with us, when the old familiar raps came again, and spelt out,
“Have a dedication of the house;” then it was fixed for
“ Good Friday,” and this sitting was one of the most interest¬
ing and unique I have ever attended. It was purely a family
gathering, as, at seven o’clock, my wife and I, our four
children, Miss M , their governess, and Mr. and Mrs.
Everitt, sat around our dining-table, in which I had purposely
left a space drawn out, of a few inches width, covered with the
table-cloth. As soon as intelligent raps were established, we
were directed to read Ephesians, 6th chapter, which I did,
until stopped by the spirits at end of 18th verse. This,
then, was to be the children’s seance. A short prayer
followed, and singing. Then we saw the table cloth lifted
up and down over the space between the leaves of the
table. On putting our hands there one after another, each
received a friendly tap or grasp of the hand through the cloth,
and this manifestation continued throughout the evening,
even after the circle was broken up. Lights having been ex¬
tinguished we had the usual delicious scents, cool breezes, and
spirit lights, so well known to all who have had the pleasure of
sitting with Mrs. Everitt. Then a paper tube was taken up,
and for about ten minutes we heard it tapped about the room
and against the gas lamps, each one also was touched most
gently upon the head, and all this so quietly and lovingly
done, evidently to make the children “ at home ” and dispel
fear, it being unusual for them to sit with us at dark stances.
Softly then came the spirit voice of John Watt, addressing the
children one by one, and then followed an affectionate appeal
to them all on home duties, and on the duty of prayer to God
for help, “ which was sure to come if asked for.” He told us
to sit later without the children, threw down the tube to Ernest,
who had wished for it, and was gone. Mrs. Everitt had not
been entranced at any part of this sitting, and had joined in
conversation with us all, and with John Watt.
After supper (during which meal our table was shaken and
rapped upon continuously) we five adults sat alone. Scents
and raps came in power: raps of our little ones (who each
have their own peculiar number); raps all over the room,
heavy thudding ones, but one distinguished above all the others,
new to us, of a metallic character, sounding as if a paper knife
were tapping on a hollow metal tube. John Watt soon took up
the tube, stroked every one with it; some being stroked by
spirit hands, and then spoke, still very softly, as he was con¬
serving the power for some one else. We asked who gave the
peculiar rap. “ He’ll tell you himselfand immediately
another voice spoke very precisely, and evidently with some
difficulty. It was the first time :—“ My dear friends, I once
promised to speak at your circle if I could do so. Do you
recognise me ?” Remembering the promise at the old house
I said, “ Is it ?” (the name of a dear friend not long
passed away) j “Yes; I have joined your band here.”. Then
came a quick hustling little voice quite different. “ My dear
brother and sister; I’m here; Sophia.” While speaking of
the pleasure of having three voices one after another, we were
almost startled by a piercing voice, and one evidently de¬
lighted at being able to speak for the first time. “Mama!
Dear Mama and Papa ! I’m here, too ! Louisa.” That was
our first still-horn daughter, who, had she lived, would have
been named Louisa. The parent’s hearts were now welling
over with joy, but it was not filled to the full. Three more
little voices, one after the another, delightedly told us, “ I’m
here.” Sad grief had it been through three successive years
to lose these little ones, but this unexpected reunion seemed
to wipe away all tears from our eyes. We had a long chat
with little Percy, who is the little rapper, and frequently
“ plays about our dining-room,” as he says. It was he who
had been ringing the bells. Why ? “ Because we wanted the
door opened!”
We remarked that the “ secret” which had been going on the
last few months was evidently “learning to talk;” and
addressing Percy, said, “ I suppose John Watt has helped you
to speak ? ” To which John Watt himself replied, “ Of course
I did, or they couldn’t have done it.” I need not report
(your space forbids) the interesting conversation which fol¬
lowed, but while singing afterwards, a spirit voice joined in,
taking the tenor correctly, such as himself would have
done. I purposely omit the name as it would be widely
known; and although I think it a duty to give my own, I do
not wish to draw in friends who would object. The tube was
thrown down to me, and John Watt was gone. On striking
the light, Mrs. Everitt was some distance off the table, which
I expected, having heard spirits moving her away some time
before. We looked on the paper which we had placed on the
table, in the hope of receiving some direct writing, but it was
blank, and we put it away in the tube.
We adjourned to the drawing-room. I reclined on the sofa,
not being very well; Mrs. Everitt was sitting in an easy chair
by my head, and the baby occupied all our attention, as it
crowed on the rug, and pulled Mr. Everitt’s beard.
Impatient little raps came on the table near. We thought
we had had enough for one night, but “ Did they want any¬
thing?” “Yes; the alphabet.” Then came the sentence,
“ There is some writing.” “ What ? direct writing ? ” “ Yes,
in the other room, in the tube.” And there sure enough on
the paper we had left blank ten minutes before, was written,—
“ Unity, peace, love and harmony dwell here. We—a loving
band—surround you. May the peace of God the All-father be
with you for evermore.” By raps we were told afterwards that
this was written after we had left the room, no one being
present. This is a new phase of spirit-writing, I believe;—
one, however, I can now confirm.
So ended our “house-dedication.” Such facts ought to
convince of the reality of spirit communion; and the teach¬
ings we have received, could I transcribe them all, would
refute that absurd reference to the devil, which our Lord
Himself had in His day to meet. I may some day give these
teachings to the public ; and if they are then still ascribed to
the devil, I shall conclude he is not such a very bad fellow
after all, and has certainly improved of late.
Mobell Theobald.
Hendon, N.W., April 8th, 1872.
•WHAT MR. J. EDWARD MUDDOCK THINKS.
SIR,—In your issue for last month there appeared an article
under the heading of “A Serious Story,” reprinted from the
South London Courier. As I had every reason to believe that
the facts therein narrated were strictly true, I acceded to your
request to allow my name to be published with it. This seems
to have given offence to a large number of my constituents
whom I have had the honour of representing as a journalist
for the last two years. I have further been charged with having
become a convert to Spiritualism—a charge I propose, with
your permission, to refute as publicly as I vouched for the
accuracy of the facts given in “ A Serious Story.” I use the
word facts because I believed then, as I do now, that all related
in that story was strictly true. Not that I could bear testi¬
mony on oath to this from my own personal knowledge, but
because the authority from which I derived my information
was above even a suspicion of doubt as to its perfect truthful¬
ness. In admitting this much, let it not be thought for a
moment that I am touched with even the shadow of a taint of
superstition. I believe that the deaths of the people referred
to in “ A Serious Story ” were due to purely natural causes ;
but this does not alter the fact that their deaths following so
suddenly one on the other were singular in the extreme. And
herein lies the secret, for it was by regarding the demise of
these unfortunate people as singular, that I have raised the
whirlwind. But I am prepared to stand my ground, and defy
the beating of the storm by a simple confession of faith.
Let me begin by saying that I look upon Spiritualism as a
gigantic swindle, and its votaries as silly dupes. I have always
believed that the trade in Spiritualism was a crime against
soaiety, demanding as much repression as the trade in fortune
telling ; for the one preys as much upon the credulity of the
ignorant as the other.
Having thus openly disavowed my belief in Spiritualism, I
have surely done enough to satisfy the most narrow-minded
bigot. But I do not intend to stop here, for I am fully pre¬
pared to admit and support by argument that under certain
conditions of the human mind some extraordinary and appa¬
rently unexplainable phenomena may, and do, take place. I
know that this admission will cause some of my pious
friends (?) to put up their hands in horror ; but I must claim
to have the right of reasoning for myself, and while not asking
any man to hold the same views as I do, I am broad-minded
enough to express my opinions in spite of carping critic or
threatening bigot.
With Hamlet I exclaim—
“There are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in our
philosophy.’’
I believe that Nature is constantly allowing us to peep into
her worlds of mystery, and the wonders we then behold are
well calculated to set the most erudite minds pondering. But
then, as Nature works by immutable laws, a little research into
hidden lore will serve to convince the most sceptical how
absurd it is to ascribe even her greatest and almost incompre¬
hensible wonders to the agency of spirits. I for one will not
believe that power is given to any mortal to tear aside the
mystic veil that separates us from Sheol and place us en
rapport with spiritualised beings. I do not believe this :—
firstly, because our material natures are too gross and
sensual to come in contact with beings who, having
passed through the “ portals of death,” must essentially be
differently constituted from ourselves; secondly, because
it is opposed to every law of Nature that undefined or
shapeless matter can become visible, though it may be felt.
Admitting this to be true (and who dares to doubt it ?), it
would be necessary, before we could see a spirit, for the spirit
to materialise itself; that is out of an etherial nothingness
gross and defined matter would have to be evolved. And
I maintain that if a spirit had the power to do this, it
would have the power to appear before us in a perfectly
human shape, or even to assume the shape of an animal, and
become palpable matter. A transformation totally out of the
region of possibility.
Let us take another illustration. We feel and hear the
WIND because we offer a resistance to moving air, but before
we could see this air it would be necessary for it to as¬
sume a shape. Fishes feel an opposing current of water
in the same way that we feel a current of air, but they cannot see
the water any more than we can see the air, because it is their
natural element as the air is ours. And yet both air and water
are indispensable to man and fish alike, with this difference, that
man lives in the air and drinks the water, while fishes live in
the water and drink the air. I think this incontestably proves
that before we can see or hear sights and sounds not due to, and
governed by natural laws, we must entirely change our
physical nature, and that change would of a necessity destroy
the life of the body.
I can understand that by certain forces governed entirely by
natural laws, one human being may exert an influence over
another. Of these forces will is one because, as the stronger
has an attraction for the weaker, a powerful will may subdue
a weak one. This is the secret of the mesmerist’s art. It may
be said, that having admitted mesmerism to be true, I have
advanced one step towards Spiritualism. This I deny, because
mesmerism can no more be Said to bear any relation to
Spiritualism than a gooseberry bush does to an oak tree. If
Spiritualism be true, we must admit that spirits are reasoning
beings. How is it then that they perform such idiotic tricks as
lifting chairs and tables about, suspending banjos in the air,
and playing music-hall tunes on concertinas. Surely they
might do something calculated to gain our respect instead of
ridicule. Again, how is it they can only perform these tricks
in darkened rooms ? If it is their desire to communi¬
cate with the beings of their former state, why do they choose
for their media men and women as a rule of the lowest and
most illiterate class ? If a spirit has the power of making
itself heard and seen by one human being, it could use that
power to an unlimited extent, and those whose affections and
desires led them towards the earth would naturally visit the
friends in whose memories they still lived. However beautiful
this world and its belongings may be, the ideal world of blest
spirits is so incomprehensibly more beautiful, that the two will
bear no comparison; and to the purified, spiritualised being of
another region, we and our terrestrial globe must appear as
the blackest blackness.
Death but too effectually separates the material and gross
from the immaterial and pure, and excepting records of
holy writ, human eye and ear never yet saw or heard a being
who had passed away to the silent and unknown land of
spirits; and until the soul shall be freed from its earthly
temple, the mystery of that land will never be known.
J. Edward Muddook.
121, Fleet-street, April 6th, 1872.
EXPERIENCES OE AN ENQUIRER.—No. 2.
Sib,—As you were pleased to publish on the 15th September
last my letter with the above heading, I will now give you
No. 2, taking' up the thread of the narrative from the place
where I dropped it, viz.—the information afforded me by the
spirit of my son, of his exact age when shipwrecked, which I
had for the moment forgotten.
On the evening of the 17th of October he again favoured me
with his presence, and to my question “ In what ocean, sea,
or river was he drowned?” spelt out by the alphabet the
“ H-u-m-b-e-r,” and the port to which he was bound,
“ G-o-o-l-e.” On further asking him, “If his remains had
been found?” he said, “ Yes,” at which I was much surprised,
having received no intimation thereof from the authorities of
Goole, to whom I had written. “Did they receive Christian
burial?” “No.” “ By whom were they found?” Much to
my surprise, spelt out, “ The Fishes.” On the 24th of the
same month, at our own family circle, by unmistakable com¬
munications, I identified the presence of my father, and asked
him the following questions: “ If I name several landed pro¬
prietors in Hampshire, will you signify it in the usual way
when I mention the name of the gentleman of whom you
rented a small farm called the ‘ Barfields,’ near Lymington ? ”
“Yes.” “ Bishop of Winchester ? ” “No.” “ Mr.Fleming?”
“ No.” “ Duke of Buccleuch ? ” “ No,” and so on to the
number of twenty. “Sir Harry Barnard Neale?” “Yes,”
which was correct. “Had you not another farm about three
miles from Lymington, and if I name several farms in the
vicinity, will you signify when the correct one is mentioned ? ”
“ Yes.” After repeating all I could think of, and receiving a
negative, “ Garlington Farm?” “Yes.” The farm he had
rented! “Was it not your wont on returning from the farm
to ride up to a certain public-house for a glass of ale ? ” “ Yes.”
“ Will you tell me the sign?” Spelt out “The Rose.” The
same correctness when mentioning the names of his old ser¬
vants. One thing only did he fail in, and that was in giving
the name of the builder and stonemason, a Mr. Banks, who,
after my father’s departure to the “ summer-land,” bought the
house my father so many years had occupied.
Did the limits of a letter permit, I could rebut in many
ways the “ psychic-forcists ” and “ unconscious-cerebra-
tionists,” but the two following incidents will go far to effect
that purpose.
On the 27th of November, at our own table, spirits mani¬
fested themselves; “N-i-m-s-h-i” was spelt out. “Who, or
what, is Nimshi ? ” I asked. Some lady present thought it a
scriptural name. “ Is it a scriptural name ? ” “Yes.” “Is
that all?” “No.” “Go on then, please.” “ A-h-a-b ” was
then spelt. Had we the presence of those two ancient worthies
to commune with us ? The next day I found the two names in
close conjunction, in a chapter of the Second of Chronicles.
There was no nerve force here; we should as soon have thought
of “ Beelzebub ” spelling out his name as these personages,,
the latter of whom, by his deeds, so much resembled his Satanic
majesty. The next and last I must not omit. A Miss Baker,,
a friend, called one morning and the subject of Spiritualism
being introduced, of which she knew nothing, expressed a wish
to sit with us; and at her first seance her grandmother’s
presence was notified, and gave her correct age at her-
decease, the town she lived and died at, in addition to a
message communicated to her granddaughter. Some weeks
after the above, Miss B. not being present, a converted Jew,
by the name of 1 Samuel Levi,” made himself known to us,,
said “ he had lived and died at Pembroke-dock, was a jeweller
and silversmith, and the object of his visit was to keep away
j bad spirits who occasionally visited our circle.” After thanking
him, and courteously wishing him good night—Exit
April 15, 1872.
THE SPIRITUALIST
31
“ Samuel Levi,” we heard no more of him. Now comes the
most remarkable part of the story. A few weeks subsequently,
Miss B. at the ” table,” the circumstance was mentioned to
her, when she, after reflecting a few minutes, exclaimed,
“ ‘ Levy,’ why that was my grandmother’s maiden name, and
her father lived at Pembroke-dock. I heard my father say
that he was a converted Jew, and silversmith ; his Christian
name I do not know, but I think father does.” The next
morning I called on Mr. Baker, who lived near me, and gleaned
from him the following particulars: — His grandfather,
“ Samuel Levy,” lived, as in the spirit he had stated, at
Pembroke-dock, his conversion and marriage being attended
by rather romantic circumstances. The lady refused to wed
unless he would embrace the Christian faith, to which his
proclivities had long been leaning. He was married and
christened on the same day, and so unusual a circumstance
induced an archdeacon of clerical eminence to perform the
ceremony. Now the truth of the above remarkable circum¬
stance shall be further investigated, by my writing to the
clerk of Pembroke Dock parish church to search the register of
marriages, for confirmation of the above, the result of; which
I will communicate to you in my next letter. James Judd,
310, Icknield-street-west, Birmingham.
SWEDEN BOBS’ S TEACHINGS.
Sir,—Your desire for the elucidation and dissemination of
■truth is so apparent in the conduct of your journal, that I
know I may ask you to publish in your next issue the following
comments upon the introductory remarks to the extract from
Swedenborg’s Heaven and Hell, which appeared in a past
number of your journal under the title of “ Life in the Spirit
world.”
In these remarks, an imperfect apprehension of Swedenborg
as a revelator is apparent; and consequently the judgment
passed upon him is without judgment. Of this the writer
seems conscious, for he does not express his opinions dog¬
matically ; but evidently subject to the modifications of more
accurate knowledge.
Two quotations I give. The first—“ Like all other mediums,
the revelations through him (Swedenborg) seemed to have
received, as is natural, a certain amount of unconscious
colouring from his own mind ; and, Swedenborg was the son of
•the Bishop of Skara:" * and the second,—“ Swedenborg seems
to have made himself the zero line of the spiritual scale, and to
have described all spirits (men) higher than himself as in
heaven, and lower than himself, from his point of view, as in
the hells,” are calculated to convey the idea that Swedenborg
was an egotistical teacher of dogmatic theology; and, as a
consequence, that the New Church doctrines are orthodoxy
under another form. That this was not the intention of the
writer, I am certain, because he says in the first paragraph
“ seemed to have revived; ” and in the second, “ seems to
have.” Nevertheless, the ideas connected above will be in¬
ferred by some who are given to judge from appearances, and
.the entrance of truth to their minds will thereby be impeded.
It is true Swedenborg was the son of the Bishop of Skara,
.-and he was brought up in the Lutheran faith; but in con¬
sidering the doctrines of the church his axiom was: “ Reason
is of the Understanding, and the understanding must teach.”
How little Swedenborg’s writings are coloured by his early
teachings in the church will be seen in his own rational expo¬
sition of the two doctrines f upon which orthodoxy builds its
• creeds, viz., the Trinity and the Atonement.
The doctrine of the Trinity as held by the Church of the
present day is, that there is one person of the Father, one
person of the Son, and one person of the Holy Ghost; and
yet there are not three gods but one God; although the Father
is God, and the Son is God, and the Holy Spirit is God.
Writing on this doctrine Swedenborg says:—“A sort of
frenzy has infected the whole system of theology, as well as
the Christian church. . . . For I appeal to experience, while
the lips confess but one God, and the mind entertaining the
idea of three, whether such confession of the lips and such
an idea in the mind, do not mutually tend to destroy each
• other ? . . . This is the source of the naturalism which is now
so prevalent in the world.”
And the Atonement, embodied in the imputation of the
righteousness of Christ to all to whom it is given to believe
that His blood cleanseth from sin, he says:—
“ From its establishment (modern imputation) this satanical
tenet has gushed out as a stream; that man is altogether im¬
potent in spiritual things, which is the same as saying, ‘Walk
forwards, although you have not a foot to walk upon; wash
yourself, though both your hands are cut off; do good, but
yet lie down; feed yourself, but Without a tongue.’ ”
Now, if Swedenborg lay the axe to the root of the tree, the
branches fall with it; consequently it is apparent that the
doctrines of Orthodoxy and those of the New Church are in
opposition. Therefore, notwithstanding Swedenborg was the
son of the Bishop of Skara, his mind was free from the false
(teachings of the church.
Nor did he judge mankind, but he did perceive and announce
the standard by which he saw them judged. He saw that men
are the creatures of God, dependent upon Him for the power
that enables them to act; and he saw that all who interiorly
acknowledge their dependence upon Him are honest, whilst
they who deny the Lord, and interiorly persuade themselves
that the life and power which they possess are their own, are
dishonest. The former consociate together, and being honest,
their state is a happy one, and it is designated heaven: the
latter consociate also, and being dishonest, their state is un¬
happy, and designated hell.
I hope the foregoing will give a glimpse of the rationality of
Swedenborg’s philosophy, and may thus remove any prejudice
against his writings which may unintentionally have been
^raised. C. W. Pearce.
6, Cambridge-road, The Junction, Kilbum, N.W.
[The statements we made we helieve can be demonstrated to be accurate,
and those statements do not imply that Swedenborg was “an egotistical
. teacher of dogmatic theology.”—Ed.]
MESMERISM AND MEDIUMS.
Sir,—It does not matter who it is, whether with “ advanced
thinkers,” or with advanced investigators, there is a common
tendency in the human mind to limit the powers of nature and
generalise, from insufficient instances, by way of simplifying
the solution of difficult problems in regard to natural pheno¬
mena. Hence we find Serjeant Cox laying down the law that
“ nothing is conveyed by them (the messages) that is not in
the mind of the psychic (whatever that may be) or of some
person present.” But not having seen Serjeant Cox’s explana-
* The italics are mine.
t Universal Theology, by E. Swedenborg. London: J. Spier*, Bloomsbury-
•street, W.C.
tion we will let that pass, though, of course, in the supposition
of the action by spirits the spirit must be included amongst
the persons present. Anyhow, one must require some suffi¬
cient reason, founded on fact, for such a broad assertion, or
some very clear and close analysis of the interaction of brain
and mind leading to the above conclusion as its legitimate
inference. Otherwise we are dealing with mere groundless
assumptions, and Serjeant Cox is not one step further towards
a real solution of the problem beyond the opinion advanced so
ably by Dr. Rogers twenty years ago.
Again, Mr. Wallace, I am sure, will excuse me from my great
experience in mesmerism in objecting to the statement in
regard to the mesmeric state derived from his own more
limited experience. I have had many patients as somnambu¬
lists quite as sensible in regard to themselves and their
position as when awake. But, nevertheless, I perfectly agree
with Mr. Wallace in regard to the relation, as well as the dis¬
tinction, manifest between the mesmerised person and the
medium in relation to the additional facts of an objective
class occurring in the presence of the latter. For years we
endeavoured, by all possible means, to produce objective phe¬
nomena through mesmerised persons, but without any reliable
success, I mean before the phenomena having occurred with
the Fox family. Dr. Elliotson was violent and unreasonable
in the extreme against the new phenomena. But for my part
I saw no reason to doubt the alleged facts from the beginning.
But knowing what we know now, it does seem to me more and
more singular that the objective phenomena never occurred in
presence of the mesmerised patients, although we were looking
out with “ expectant attention ” for any slightest indication
of an objective fact. Perhaps the most astonishing thing in
regard to the new phenomena in question is their reception,
or rather rejection, by men of science. One would have
thought that the physiologist and psychologist would have
been all eagerness to investigate such an alleged light cast
upon the puzzling problem of life. The fact is, that few men
of science have enlarged views. But how different it would
have been with Humboldt. Hear what he said in his letter to
Arago, on first seeing evidence of the motion in the magnetic
needle by the contraction of the muscles. “ Occupied myself
for more than half a century in this class of physiological
researches, the discovery which I have announced has for me
a vital interest. It is a phenomenon of life, rendered sensible
by a physical instrument.” But all new and great discoveries
have met with the same fate, and encountered the same oppo¬
sition from the professors of the day, and in the course and
progress of knowledge men never seem to learn from the
history of the past because the last novelty presents itself in
such a totally new aspect. Henry G. Atkinson.
DR. ABERCROMBIE ON TESTIMONY.
Sir,—Having found in the September number of the Spiri¬
tualist Mr. Yarley’s reply to Professor Allen Thomson, I think
the following passages from a work which has passed through
at least twelve editions, very much to the point. The book I
refer to is “ Inquiries concerning the Intellectual Powers and
the Investigation of Truth, by John Abercrombie, M.D., Oxon
and Edin., Y.P.R.S.E, &c., &c.,” whose competence as an
authority I do not think Dr. Thomson will dispute. The
extracts are taken from the article on Testimony.
Dr. Abercrombie says: “ By far the greater part of our
knowledge of external things is procured through other men.
... We are much influenced, in the first place, by our con¬
fidence in the veracity of the narrator, and our knowledge of
the opportunities which he has had of ascertaining the facts
which he professes to relate. Thus, if he be a person on whose
testimony we have formerly received important statements,
which have turned out to be correct, we are the more ready
to receive his testimony again. . . . We should examine care¬
fully the evidence on which we receive facts not in accordance
with those which we have already acquired ; but we should
beware of allowing it to engender scepticism. . .. An unlimited
scepticism is the part of a contracted mind, which reasons on
imperfect data, or makes its own knowledge and extent of
observation the standard and test of probability. .. . Con¬
fidence in one’s own experience as the test of probability,
characterises a mind which is confined in its views and limited
in its acquirements, and the tendency of it would be the
rejection of all knowledge for which we have not the evidence
of our senses.... In judging of the credibility of a statement,
we are not to be influenced simply by our actual experience
of similar events ; for this would limit our reception of new
facts to their accordance with those we already know.”
Speaking of the miraculous, he says: “ What renders an
occurrence miraculous, is precisely the fact of its being opposed
to uniform experience. To say, therefore, that miracles are
incredible because they are contrary to experience, is merely
to say that they are incredible because they are miracles.
They who are imposed upon by such a sophism as this, do not,
in the first place, attend to the fact, that the term experience,
if so much is to be founded upon it, must be limited to the
personal observation of every individual; that is, it can apply,
in each particular case, only to the last fifty or sixty years at
most, and to events which have happened during that period,
at the spot where the individual was present. Whatever he
knows of events which took place beyond this spot, or before
that period, he knows, not from experience, but entirely from
testimony ; and a great part of our knowledge of what we call
the established course of nature, has been acquired in this
manner. In the reception of new knowledge, then, an indi¬
vidual must either receive facts upon testimony, or believe
nothing but that for which he has the evidence of his senses.
It is unnecessary to state how much the latter supposition
is at variance with the daily practice of every man ; and how
much information we are in the constant habit of receiving
upon testimony, even in regard to things which are much at
variance with our personal observation. . . . HoW few persons
have verified by their personal observation the wonders which
we receive on the testimony of the astronomer ; and, even of
the great phenomena of nature on the surface of our globe,
how much do we receive upon testimony in regard to things
which are widely at variance with our own experience. I
need only mention the boiling springs of Iceland, and the
phenomena of earthquakes and volcanoes. The reception of
facts upon the evidence of testimony must therefore be con¬
sidered as a fundamental principle of our nature, to be acted
upon whenever we are satisfied that the testimony possesses
certain characters of credibility. These are chiefly referable
to three heads : That the individual has had sufficient oppor¬
tunity of ascertaining the facts ; that we have confidence in
his power of judging of their accuracy ; and that we have no
suspicion of his being influenced by passion or prejudice in
his testimony. Our confidence is further strengthened by
several witnesses concurring in the same testimony, each of
whom has had the same opportunities of ascertaining the
facts, and presents the same characters of truth and honesty.
On such testimony we are in the constant habit of receiving
statements, which are much beyond the sphere of our personal
observation, and widely at variance with our experience.
These are the statements which, for the sake of a name, we
call marvellous. In regard to such, the foundation of incre¬
dulity, as we have seen, is generally ignorance. Testimony,
we are told, is fallacious, and is liable to deceive us. But so
are our senses; they also may deceive, and perhaps have
deceived us, as in the case of ocular spectra ; but we do not
on that account discredit the evidence of our eyes—we only
take means in certain cases for correcting their indications
by other senses, as by touching the object, or by a comparison
with the visual impressions of other men. And, whatever
probability there is that the eyes of one man may be deceived
in any one instance, the probability is as nothing that both
his sight and touch should be deceived at once, or that the
senses of ten men should be deceived in the same manner at
the same time. If we find a man, who in other respects shows
every indication of a sound mind, relating an event which
happened under his own inspection, and in such circumstances
that he could not possibly be deceived : if this statement be
such as contributes in no respect to his credit or advantage,
but, on the contrary, exposes him to ridicule, contempt, and
danger : if, notwithstanding, he steadily perseveres in it,
under every species of persecution, and even to the suffering
of death :—to suppose such a testimony intended to deceive,
would be to assume a deviation from the established course of
human character, as remarkable as any event which it could
possibly convey to us. This might be maintained in regard
to one such testimony; but if we find numerous witnesses
agreeing in the same testimony, all equally informed of the
facts, all showing the same characters of credibility, and
without the possibility of concert or connivance, the evidence
becomes not convincing only, but incontrovertible.”
Bristol. M. D.
SPIRITUAL SUNDAY EVENING SERVICES.
Last Sunday evening, Mr. Henry E. Russell, of Kingston-
on-Thames, a gentleman who has long been known among
Spiritualists as a good trance-medium, gave an inspirational
address for the first time in public. There was a very large
attendance, every seat being occupied. Mr. W. J. Cham-
pernowne and Mr. Pillborough occupied seats upon the plat¬
form, on either side of Mr. Russell, who was soon completely
entranced, in which state he was, as usual, completely insen¬
sible, and made to speak the words of the spirit by whom he
was mesmerised.
Mr. Russell was thus made to give a long address, in which
the controlling spirit exhorted the listeners to lead good
practical lives, by personally visiting scenes of poverty and
sickness, and dens of infamy, for the purpose of doing good to
the sufferers therein. The spirit closed his or her address as
follows :—“ In rescuing these poor outcasts you have much to
do, for in these matters a great responsibility rests upon all
mankind, and more especially upon those who enjoy advan¬
tages. We ask all you who call yourselves believers to go into
the dens of infamy and misery, and by sympathising action
and gentle voice, you will most aid the spirits who will accom-
i pany you. Oh, how deeply do we love those embodied angels
of light, who go to the beds of sickness and suffering—to the
poor ones of humanity—and how much do we love to see them
tending with loving care, the brother or sister passing away.
At that time the pressure of the hand upon the burning brow
of the sufferer may sometimes open the spiritual sight,
and give him a foretaste of the joys to come. The spirit of
peace is found in such scenes, angels of light are found there,
because they love to do the will of their Father in heaven.
How can you call upon the name of Jesus even as a dear
brother of humanity, or how can you call upon the name of
your Father in heaven, unless you.strive to do His will? He
is ever the helper of those who strive after perfection. The
divine is within man, and man has only to draw upon that
principle within him to redeem himself, to become his own
saviour, and to gradually enter that state of perfect light
wherein he becomes one with his Father in heaven. Were any
of you to pass away this night, would you at once" enter those
realms of perfect joy which you now picture to yourselves ?
We dare not say ‘ No,’ but hope that you all lead such lives as
will lead you at once to the happy homes in the mansions of
eternity. Those who have heard the name of Jesus, cannot
do better, in our opinion, than to follow his footsteps, even to
a shameful death for the truth’s sake. What if your footsteps
be dyed with blood ? It is but a glorious purification. For
every crown of thorns worn here, there is a glorious diadem
hereafter. Even in spiritual life man has to progress, and in
his upward course to throw off that which he needs not; it is
by the attainment of all knowledge that we reach the heaven
of heavens. Heaven is no place; it is no locality; it may in
part be realised upon earth, and the heaven of heavens is an
association of those bright ones, who have passed through all
the previous stages of existence, who far above all our concep¬
tion, and far above ourselves who address you this night,
realise the fullness of the Father’s presence, and can with
perfect truth say, ‘ I and my Father are one.’ ”
At the close of the address Mr. Bums made a few kindly re¬
marks about the entrance into spirit life of Mr. J. W. Jackson,
and the steps to be taken to aid his relatives left here.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A.B.—In his published writings there are mistakes on technical
subjects palpable to scientific readers, though not to the general
public; we can print them if further invited, but do not see what
good purpose would be thereby served, it being preferable to
point to good features rather than to defects.
Notices of several books, including Heaven Opened, Our Home in
the Stars, The Spiritual Pilgrim, and others, are unavoidably kept
over for want of room, also several letters, and the continuation
of Dr. Rutherford’s lectures at the Royal Institution.
Letters are often sent to us urging the immediate publication of
The Spiritualist fortnightly. Apart from the act doubling the
money loss over the journal, since none of the spiritual periodicals
clear their expenses, it is no light matter to undertake to give one
week out of two, instead of one week out of four, to the literary
and shorthand work of the paper. The other journals have
applied for and received heavy subscriptions, and perhaps for the
above object we might, for the first time, have done so too, but
during the past six months Spiritualists have subscribed such
very heavy sums for various purposes, we do not feel justified in
coming forward with the proposition. If our readers will
originate a movement among themselves to subscribe a moderate
amount to cover the losses over the journal for the next six or
nine months, we shall be very willing to give the additional time
and work, and to bring it out fortnightly at once. A great deal
of valuable literary matter would thus be saved from oblivion.
m
THE SPIRITUALIST.
• April 15, 1872.
FACTS FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena seen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
within the' ordinary range of human experi¬
ence,'mat it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
'should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absqlute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES-
■ TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit-
messes that the phenomena of Spiritualism' are
actual facts,', and not imposture, or delusion, has of
late , years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. C. P. Yarley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S.., 0. 'Hall, arid others, all made affidavits
strongly iri favour, nf, Mr. Home.
, It .also.,came out in -the ,evidence given at the
trial, that Mr., Home had be,en the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Eiripress of the
Fretich, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em-
pressDowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of ' Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late1 King of Wurteinburg, and the
Queen of> Holland.- • Mr. -Home says that all his
life<.he- has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. ■
■ Mrs. De Morgan has-written a book! entitled
From Matter to Spint (Longmans), where she
gives. many interesting particulars, the result of
tep. years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the hook, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, ip a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being, to be cagable.'of explanation, by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.’’ Mj
Mr C. E. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S., the Atlantic
Cable Electrician, has testified that Spiritual
phenomena are produced by disembodied spirits.
Mr. John Bright, M.P., testified to Mr. J. M.
Peebles, late‘American Consul at Trebizond, that
lie had seen some of the phenomena, and they
appeared to'be produced'by spirits, though he was
not sure on the point.
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President,
of the. British Association, at .Norwich in 1868,
spoke' very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr.' Alfred R.' Wallace, F.LjS. Mr, Wallace is ah
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic'Bat-'
fiefyi once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging, that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action. ” theory explained all the facts. A'friend
wrote to .him.;detailing things he had seen which
Were inexplicable by; that theory. Hare, at once,.:
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. . The
result whs that he came into coihmunjcation with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
were«intelligently'5worked' by•JepmtssvmiTe xtm
apparatus waS screened ; from the sight'of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. ;That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmonds, of New York, is another
very eminent American j Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting books on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a pirSface by Lord Dunraveri. . This, book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for '.spirit rapping and movements; of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in*
their oWn house". . Documentary evidence .of 'what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of. Wesley.
Mr. W. Crookes,, F.R.S.’(editor of. TJie, Quarterly
Journal of Science), Mr. Serjeant Cox, and Mr.
William Huggins (Vice-presiderit of the Royal
Society), have certified that certain of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism are real. A scientific
committee of professional gentlemen, appointed by
the Dialectical Society, came to the same conclusion
after two years investigation ; their official report
is printed in No.'26. of The Spiritualist.
A work-entitled The Book of Nature, by C. 0.
Groom Napier,. F.O.S. (London, John Camden
Hotten, 1870),. has a preface by the late Lord
Brougham, in which that eminent statesman
Says,:— ■
, “ There is but one question I would ask the author, is
the Spiritualism of this work foreign to our materialistic,
manufacturing age'? —No ; for amidst the varieties of
mind which divers circumstances produce, are found
those who cultivate man’s highest facultiesto these
the author address.es himself.' But even in the most
cloudless skies of scepticism X see a rain-cloud, if it be no
tagger than a man’s hand; it is Modern Spiritualism.”
«In addition to the above evidence, there is. the
testimony of numbers that the modem spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his Yew America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United. States at rathqr less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has riiade. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in then- esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
HOW TO FORM 8EIRIT. CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is,present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be Ho results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
n'ew circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestatioris have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings! The following is a good plan of
action
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter it, and that there shall be no inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
■ 2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un-'
covered wooden table, with ,all the palms of.the hands
in contact with its. top surface. Whether the .hands
touch' each other or not, is’ usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters.1 The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations. ,
3. Before.the sitting begins, plac some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table,' to write down any communications that may be
ohtairied.
4. People who do not like each other shOuld not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-develdped
physical mediums; it is hot yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an’
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5; Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful!
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
tO attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps. . ,
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid’confusion, let one person only speak,
and: talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him . tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I speak
the.letters of the alphabet slowly, will you.signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the.question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then he .told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask,,Who is .-the
medium? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or . known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of - other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance.
British imperial insurance
CORPORATION, LIMITED.
FOR EFFECTING
BANKING'LIFE, & SELF, INSURANCE POLICIES
ON GOYERNMENT SECURITIES.
’ ECTURES ON SPIRITUALISM,
J By GERALD MASSEY,
At ST. GEORGE’S HALL, LANGHAM-PLACE,
LONDON.
Committee'of Invitation.
Rev! Sir Wm. Dunbar, Bt!
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.'
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq.,
F.R.S. , .
W. Crookes, Esq., F.R.S.
George Harris, Esq., F.S.A.,
Vice-PresidentAnthropo-
logical Institute, &c.
Rev.’S. E. Bengough, M.A.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.1
Mrs. Berry. .
Mrs. Hamilton. .
H. D. Jehcken, Esq., M.R.I.,
Barrister-at-Law.
N.’F. Daw, Esq.
James Wason, Esq., Liver¬
pool.
Andrew Leighton, Esq.,
Liverpool.
William Tebb, Esq.
Nicholas Kilbum, | Jun.,
Esq., Bishop, Auckland.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq,
A; C. Swinton, Esq.
Thomas: Shorter, Esq. '
J. Traill Taylor, Esq,
William White, Esq,
These lectures are not limited to any caste or sect;
they are meant for the outcasts of many sects.
First Lecture—SUNDAY AFTERNOON, May 12,
At Three o’clock precisely.
Subject:—“ Facts of my own Personal Experience nar¬
rated and discussed, together with Various Theories of
the alleged Phenomena.”
Second Lecture—SUNDAY AFTERNOON, May 19,
At: Three o’clock precisely.
Subject:—“Concerning a Spirit-World revealed to the
Natural World by means of Objective Manifestations;
with a new Theory of the Tree of Knowledge of Good
and Evil.”
Third Lecture—SUNDAY AFTERNOON, May 26,
At Three o’clock precisely.
Subject:—“The Birth, Life, Miracles, and Character of
Jesus Christ Re-viewed from a fresh Standpoint.”. .
Fourth Lecture—SUNDAY AFTERNOON, June 2.
, At Three o’clock precisely.
Subject:—“The Natural Ascent of Man; his Spiritual
Development, and Need of Revelation now.”
Tickets for the Course.—Specially reserved seats, 10s.;
reserved seats for. the course,; 5s,; reserved seats, family
ticket, to admit .four to the course, 12s. 6d. May be had
of the Secretary, N, F. Daw, Portman Chambers ;, J.
Bums, 15,-Southampton-row, &c.
Prices of Admission at the Doors.—Reserved seats,
2s.; back seats, Is. Doors open for each Lecture at half-
paSt two o’clock.
N. F. Daw, Secretary.
T
' Head Offices:
Brown-street arid Mar^den-street, Manchester.
Branch Offices |
20, King William-stredt, London, E.C.
Victoria-buildings, 66, Renfield-street, Glasgow.
4, CollegOTg’reen, Ddbliri.
, Brown’s-buildingSf Excharige, Liverpool-
■ 93, Princess-street, Edinburgh.
Market-place, Douglass, Isle of Man.
1' /rpr™™
Funds. !
All the Premiums (with the exception of one-fifth for
Expenses,of Management, Reserve, and Bonuses) are
invested ih the Names of. Trustees, for the sole purpose
of meeting Policy claims. These Trustees act indepen¬
dently of the Directors.
This form of Security is strictly defined by the General
Deed of Trust, and is unalterable.
An equitable Surrender-value endorse | on each Policy
and payable oh demand.
From 50 to 70 per cent, pf the net Premiums paid (ae'
cording to the Table under which the Policy is effected)
can be obtained on demand by Insurants desirous of ceas¬
ing premium paying. The Surrender-value is endorsedon
each Policy, and Policyholders,' upon depositing their
Policies with the Corporation, may draw upon the Sur¬
render-value to its full amount, for any purpose, without
sacrificing their Policy; thus using it as a cash balance at
their Bankers. The Surrender-value cannot be forfeited.
Insurants cannot pay more in premiums than the amount
for which they have insured.
Insurants, desirous of ceasing premium paying, and
not wishing to withdraw their “Surrender-values'' can
obtain “Free” or “Paid-up” Policies, for the whole
amount of Premiums paid, in exchange for the former
Policies held by them.
By this arrangement Insurants ’ who have paid in
premiums, an amount equal to the sum for which they
are insured, can have a “Paid-up” Policy for the full
amount, together with the Bonus additions added there¬
to (if insured, with profits,) granted them in exchange for
their former Policies, without further payment.
Bankers: Bank of England, London. Manchester and
Liverpool District Bank, Manchester. Auditor (To the
Government Security Life Insurance Fund)-: Dr. William
Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London. General Manager: John
A. Feigan. Secretary: William Davies, Brown-street,
Marsden-street, Manchester.
GL H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, Lambs Conduit Street, Foundling, W.C.
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may
honour him with their patronage, they can be
supplied with clothes cut in the most fashionable manner,
good materials, and sound workmanship, at very mode¬
rate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many
years in the well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co.,
65, St. James’s Street.
£ s.
Trousers, from ...   *  0 13
Vests .7. ■'... ...
Black Suit, from
Unrivalled Black Doe
Tweed Suit... ... '...
0 7
3 0
1 1
2 10
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
A
304 pp., 8vo, cloth gilt, price 5s., post free.
LYRIC OF THE GOLDEN AGE.
Thomas L. Harris.
Glasgow: John Thomson, 39, John-street.
Aaron franklin, preseryer of
BIRDS, ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR'OF
NATURE, Museums and private collections attended.
British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads, fox’s heads,
shells,,and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and
kindred periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847-
Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-street, Birmingham.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF EN-
QUIRERS INTO: SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino-
road, Dalston, E. Stances are held every Thursday-
evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of
formation for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules
on application to the Secretary. Subscription 3s. per
quarter in advance. Thos. Blyton, Secretary, &c.
HE NEW AND THE WONDERFUL
at the EGYPTIAN HALL, every evening except
Saturday at 8; and oh Wednesday and Saturday at 3.
By Professor, Pepper and Thomas W. Tobin, Esq.—
Admission, 10s! 6d.; 5s., 3s., 2s., and Is. Booking office
open from 11 to 5.—No fees.
T
HE EYES MADE THE FOOLS
OF THE OTHER- SENSES’,’ in the NEW
AND THE . WONDERFUL at the-EGYPTIAN HALL.
—Professor Pepper’s Dark and Light ’Stances.—Is
Spiritualism a reality ?1 A violin and other instruments,
and a‘ Luminous' Hand1 float -mysteriously amongst the
audience* The, spirits feplyUrota.the furniture. Genuine
seientiflc,'inve5tigatiqns.'. • 'Philokphriical-'' inquiry' .into
Spiritualisih desirable.—Numbered arid: '.reaerveds septs,
may be .obtained at’the Hall, at Mitchell’s, Bqnd-streeJ,
and Austin’s-Ticket Office, St. James’s Mall.—N<$ charge
for booking.
SPIRITUALISM sire held Cveriy'Sim^^eyenmg’ht’
seven o’clock, at the'Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street,
Regent-street. There is a collection at the close of the
proceedings. . '
DLLE. HUET, under Spirit-Influence
. and by. Mesmeric Power,-.treats--the Sick;- on
Tuesdays' arid Fridays,' at - 39, Duke-street,, Grosvenor-
square, from 1 to 5 o’elbck, p.m. Private,- SCanees—
terms: one,: Ss.ysixfIf. 4s„ The Sick’ are received ori
the-same days, free of charge, from 10 till 12 o’clock
a.m., at 78, Edgware-road. .
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, MEDICAL
AND BUSINESS CLAIRVOYANTE AND
TEST-MEDIUM, from America, can be consulted daily
at 24, Keppel-street, Russell-square, W.O. Hours from
10 till 8. Terms, 21s. .
Messrs, herne and williams,
Spirit Mediums, beg to inform investigators that
they are at home daily to give private stances from 12
a.m. to 5 o’clock p.m. They are also open to receive
engagements for private stances in the evening, either at
home or at the residence of investigators. On Monday
and Thursday evenings, at 7.45 p.m, public stances' are
given. Admission 2s. 6d. each person. Address, 61,-
Lamb’s Conduit-street, Holbom, W.C,
Price 2s. 6d.
LIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND.—
VJC Showing the harmony of things Spiritual with
things Material.-
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good,”
—Christian Spiritualist.
*#* A List of Spiritual and Mesmeric works on applica¬
tion.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
Now ready, 3s. 6d., cloth gilt, bevelled boards, with
diagrams.
OUR HOME IN THE STARS. By
JOS. DREW, LL.D. “Atruly eloquent and mas¬
terly composition.” “Full of rich imagery and poetical
feeling.” “ Each theory advanced upon some Scriptural
basis.” “Beyond ottr power to convey any idea of its
impassioned eloquence.” ;
London: Elliot Stock.
BEYERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of
The Spiritualist,
FULLWQOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.‘,„
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descrip¬
tions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS. — Fred A.
HUDSON, Photographer, 177, Holloway-road, has
on sale Spirit Photographs, price Is. each. On reeeipt of
ten shillings, ten of the best will be selected and for¬
warded.—Ordinary Cartes de Visile on the usual terms.
E
P P S
S
COCOA.
The Civil Service Gazette remarks—“By a thorough
knowledge of the natural laws which govern the opera¬
tions, of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful applica¬
tion of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr.
Epps has provided our breakfast-tables with a delicately-
flavoured beverage which may save us many heavy
doctors’bills.” t
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverage.
SPIRITUAL SEANCES are held 'every
Friday evening, at 15, Southampton-row, Holborn,
W.C., at eight o’clock!, Mr. J. J. Morsh, Medium. Ad¬
mission One Shilling.
Footfalls on the boundary
OF ANOTHER W.ORLD. An Enlarged English
Copyright Edition.- Post- 8vo. Pp. xx—392.- Cloth
7 s.-fid.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN
- :THIS WORLD AND THE NEXT.—By Robert
Dale Owen, Author of!“ Footfalls'on the Boundary of
another World.” 1 vol. 'crown 8vo. cloth. Price 9s. •
Now Ready, Crown 8vo., pp. viii. -126, cloth, price 2s. 6d.
Hints for the eyidences of
SPIRITUALISM.” By M. P.
London: Triibner and Co., 8 and 60, Paternoster-row.
- Price 6d.- Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEATEN OPENED. —Part II. being
, further descriptions of, arid'advanced teachings
from, the Spirit Land. Given through the riaediumship
of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the Scripture
proofs of Spiritualisin! "j !
J: Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W.. Allen, IT,
Ave-Maria lane, E.C., or F. J. T., Mr. O. W. Pearce,
6, Cambri’dge-road, Junction, Kilbum, London, N.W
Also Parti., price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
Now Ready 4th Edition. 8vo. cloth, pp. 360. Price 3s. 6d
THE “ ALPHA,’? or the- first principle
of the Human Mind: a Revelation, but no Mystery.
By Ed. N. Dennys. With Spiritual Advent and steel
engraving of Author.
“ vye can call to mind few books fit to be its fellow.”—
Athenseum.
“ It contains more truth, poetry, philosophy, and logic,
than any work we have ever read; it is a new fevelatieri,
and one of the most remarkable productions ever given
to the YrovVi."—Cosmopolitan., ,
“ The ‘ Alpha' is the book of an age.”—Danner of Lights
Also by the same author, “ LIFE LECTURES;” cloih
8vo. pp. 460, with steel engraving of Author, 3s. 6d.
J. BURNS, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C. .
Now ready, price 4s.
The journal of the anthro-
POLOGIAL INSTITUTE OF GREAT BRITAIN
AND IRELAND, Nq. II. October 1871, containing
papers by Major Godwin-Austen on the Khasi Hill
Tribes; Rev. Dr. Callaway on Divination, Sc.,' among the
Natives of- Natal; Mr. F. G. N.’ Price On the Quissama
Tribe of Angola; Lieut:. Musters, R.N., on the Races.bf
Patagonia; Mr, Holder Westropp on Analagous,Coin¬
cidences amorig unconnected Nations; Mr. H. Howorth
on Westerly Driftings of Npruades; with Discussioris
and Anthropological Miscellanea. London: Tfiibner
and Co.
Just Published.
The report of the London
DIALECTICAL SOCIETY’S Committee on Spirit¬
ualism, together with' a full afcpount of the proceedings of
the. Committee, the 'Reports and Minutes of the Experil
mental Sub-committees, and the evidence, pro and con,tra,
of the following eminent persons:—Lord Lyttoh, Lofd
Lindsay, Lord Borthwick; the Countess de PofuAf; ,
Professor, Huxley, ■ Professor Tyndall; Drs. W. JSSS
Carpenter, Chambers, Djavey, Dixon, Edmunds, -EidcR.
•Robertson; Garth Wilkinson; Mr. . Serjeant ',Cox;
Messrs! Edwin- >Ahfold, . Henry •£!,.-;^fljmS!.ohj,-.Rttm«mi
Blanehard,, Chevalibr, ’ Damiann -TAori Fkvre, 'Carimle
Flammarion, Hain Friswell, D. D. Home, William
Hdwitt, H. D. JOpcJfgh, Gpprgp Heriry Lewes, Hawkins
'Sinip's0n, J!- Murray i$pear; T. Adolphus,.Trpilojie; CrSrfi-.
'.^11.5^)ey,-.^R^WijRacOjTW! M. Wilkinson ;Mesmes.
^^^^®|^|^^^^^^Hge,'B6ught»op,:s&c^&C,!_^0, Priori'!
Ids: i.onnoh: tjotfgm'aris, Green, Rcadei*, ifnd Dyer.
New and Cheaper, Edition, thoroughly revised,'' in ■ Ona^
Volume Dem-y’8vo,!pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his
: LIFE AND . WRITINGS. By WILLIAM
WHITE. Wherein, the History, the Doctrines, and
the other-world Experiences of the great, Swede are/con-*
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin'
and Condition of the Swederiborgian Sect. The Volume
is .illustrated with,- Four Steel Engravings, by Mr.. O.
H. Jebns—1. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. .11.
Emanuel Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s
House, Stockholm. IV. Swedenborg, aged 80! -
London": Simpkin, Marshall and Co. -
The rise and progress of
Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin Coleman,
recently published in the Spiritualist, reprinted in
pamphlet form, ori toned paper, with coloured wrapper
The discussion is also included in the pamphlet. Copies
maybe had at one shilling each, of Mr. E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C., and are of especial value for
presentation to those who are uninformed on the subject,
of Spiritualism.
THE SPIRITUALIST NEWSPAPER. !
CHARGE FOR ADYERTISEMENTS
Three shillings and- sixpence for - the first fifty
words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for every
ten words in addition. When four or more msertions
of, the same advertisement are ordered, half-a-crown for '
the first fifty wovds ■ or portion of fifty words, andfouj-
penee for ’every ten words in addition, each insertion.
Ten initial letters or figures count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertises—
ments, because it circulates largely among those advef-
tisers desire to reach, and an advertisement is not lost to
view amid a inass of others: Moreover, the paper is not
usually tom up when read, but preserved for binding. 1
.Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters
consisting of personal opinions, for publication, are
requested not to make them more than a third of A
column long, i Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be lopger sometimes.
Subscriptions :^-No notice is taken of orders received
for papers unaccompanied' by a remittance. The next
twelve copies1 of ‘The Spiritualist will be posted to any
address in the United; Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C. *
(Slotttnxts.
Spirit Photography .' ...   
Relationship between Matter and Spirit -...- ... ,...
Dr. Carpenter on Blush-writing  
Spiritualism in Norwich  .v...  
Mr. Wallace-on Spiritual Phenomena ... ! .’.! ...
A New Medium .;   '..., *..! )-'...
The Theological and Spiritual Aspects' of Death (“...
Professor Pepper on Spiritualism   ...
Spiritualism in Dalston     
Mr. J. W. Jacl?spn :  ... ..'.  • 
Mr. Gerald Massey on Spiritualism  
New Manifestations-...' ... ■ ...  
Poetry:—InMemeriam   
Correspondence:—The Efficacy of Prayer; Spirit;
ualism at Home; WhatMr. J.Edward Muddock
thinks; Experiences of an Enquirer. No. 2;
Swedenborg’s Teachings; . Mesmerism and
Mediums; Dr. Abercrombie on Testimony 29, 30,
Spiritual Sunday Evening,Services    ...*
Answers to Correspondents   !. ...  
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridob & Fraser,
, at the Holhom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents,
High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-
Bar and St. George “the Martyr, London and published,
by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London E.C.
