AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE
[REGISTEEED FOB TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
NO. 84. (Vol. IV.—No. 14.)
LONDON: APRIL 3, 1874.
Published Weekly; Price Threepence
Contents.
167
Spirit Forms      157
Spirit Teachings    159
What is Death? ... ...        iei
Private Seancet:—A Seance at Mrs. Gregory’s—Remar table Pheno¬
mena—Spirit Forms in Paris—Madame Louise’s Mediumship
—Recognisable Spirit Faces  
Spiritual Christianity from a Swedenborgian Point of View
Miss Fowler in Glasgow     ...
Testimonial to Mr. Blyton... ...    ...  
The Soiree of the National Association...   
Correspondence—Sergeant Cox's “ What am I ? ” 167; Spirit Messages
and Physics, 167; Trade Interests in Spiritualism, 167; Spirit
Forms      I ...
Spiritualism in Edinburgh...   ... 168
Paragraphs—Diana of Ephesus, 158; Testimonial to Miss Faithful,
166; Uncle Shippen on Marriage, 169; Spiritualism in St. John’s-
wood...           168
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, marshall & Co.
THE
LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Managemen t.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis. .
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont'.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. I Mr. H. J. Charlton".
THE object o£ this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A SOIREE will be held on Thursday, the 16th April, at the Cleveland
Hall, Cleveland-street, near Portland-road Station. S. C. Hall, Esq;, F.S.A.
will preside.
Lady Patronesses:—
The Countess of Caithness.
Mrs. S. C. Hall. | Mrs. O. L. V. Tappan.
Mrs. Honywood.
Mrs. Tebb.
Mrs. Showers.
Mrs. Rudd.
Miss Ponder.
Miss E. Ponder.
Mrs. T. Everitt.
Mrs. Strawbridge
Mrs. Fitzgerald.
Mrs. H. D. Jencken.
Mrs. Kislingbury.
Miss Withall.
Tea served at 6.80. Chair to be taken at 8 o’clock precisely.
Single tickets 2s. 6d.; double tickets 4s., to be had of Miss Kislingbury,
93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W., of Mr. T. Blyton, 12, High-street,
Bow, or of any of the members of the council.
Algernon Joy, \
E. Kislinsbhry, j
Eon. Secs.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested 1o communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870!)
President,—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mrs. C. A. Blyton,
Mr. George" Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Corner,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Council.
Mr. A. M. Greene,
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr.. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks,
A. M. Greene, Secretary, pro. term.
A DESIRE.for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations {vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to.
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; -to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on Vae first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be .enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.»
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
Mr. A. M. GREENE, Secretary pro. term.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m.", at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions,
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 3, 1874,
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
Thz Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Riohaed Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mx. Richard Pearce.
VERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in [Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted, with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are' held on Sunday evenings at G-oswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. 0. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. 0. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, mcluding use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOE
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WEIB’S COUET),
NEWGATE STREET, NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President'.—Mr. Armstrong. .
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
2VmsMra\—Heebert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane:
Offices.—BERNERS STREET.
lion. /Sec.—Mas. Lowe (Louisa).
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Seevioes aee Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus ahd Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
TNSPIRATIONAL
LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
' _ “ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, of what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during,
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.’’—Spiritualist.
The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastern
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All .letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
MRS. CORA L. Y. TAPPAN’S INSPIRATIONAL
DISCOURSES at the Cleveland Hall Cleveland-street, Oxford-
street. The Committee have arranged for the delivery of these dis¬
courses at 7 o’clock every Sunday evening till April 5th, inclusive.
The expenses are not nearly covered by the sale of tickets and col¬
lections.
Donations or Subscriptions in aid will be received by the Treasurer,
Mrs. Honywood, 52, War wick-square, E.W.
Tickets can be had at the doors; also at Chappells; at Oliviers, Bond-
street, and at Burns’s, 16, Southampton-row, Holbom. Reserved seats 2s.
and Is. each. Body of the hall free.
Price 2s. 6d.
Glimpses of a brighter land.—
Showing the harmony of things sphitual with things material.
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*** A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c..
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
The alleged identification of the
ENGLISH NATION WITH THE “LOST HOUSE OF ISRAEL.
By A. L. Lewis, Honorary Secretary, London Anthropological Society.
Being a Paper read before the British Association for the Advancement of
Science (Brighton Meeting), and before the London Anthropological
Society, with the Discussions thereon. Reprinted from Anthropologia,
No. 2 (by permission of the Council of the London Anthropological Society)
With the addition of an Append on the alleged Scriptural Evidence. The
whole showing that Englishmen'are not Israelites.
London: Published by the Author, at 4, St. Paul’s-ohurohyard, E.C. 1874.
Price Sixpence.
CHILDISH FANCIES.
Twenty short pieces in various keys for the pianoforte, composed by
CHARLTON TEMPLEMAN SPEER (ffits. 18).
Dedicated to Mrs. Denis, Fairbrook House, Rathfamham, Dublin.
PRICE THREE SHILLINGS.
London: Published by R. Limpus, at the College of Organists, 41, Queen-
square, Bloomsbury.
ARE-ENGAGEMENT is desired by a Widow Lady as
HOUSEKEEPER or COMPANION. Practically experience, cheer¬
ful, and accustomed to polite and good society. Superior references from
a leading Spiritualist. For particulars, address, H. _H., care of Mr. J.
Hey wood, 141, Deansgate, Manchester.
t
/r?
g]Ma ■ eJAs
${[ uf tip ^tx\m mb ^t|p$ t\
VOJjUJVIE FOUR^ JMUjVIBEI^ FOURTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 3rd, 1874.
Spintalist
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for tlie first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch
.Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions,':—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher^ Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always he informed of such impediments and'irregulan-
ties, and copies can then he ordered of him hy post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 3S3, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Eoberts, 1026, Seventh Street,
- AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
,, Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J1. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street,
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street,
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
JJIEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects :—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—l, Fitzroy-square, W.
SPIRIT FORMS.
BY WILLIAM CROOKES, F.R.S., ETC.
In a letter which I wrote to this journal early in
February last, speaking of the phenomena of spirit
forms which have appeared through Miss Cook’s
mediumship, I said, “ Let those who are inclined to
judge Miss Cook harshly, suspend their judgment until
I bring forward positive evidence which I think will be
sufficient to settle the question. Miss Cook is now de¬
voting herself exclusively to a series of private seances
with me and one or two friends. .... Enough has
taken place to thoroughly convince me of the perfect
truth and honesty of Miss Cook, and to give me every
reason to expect that the promises so freely made to me
by Katie will be kept.”
In that letter I described an incident which to my
mind went very far towards convincing me that Katie
and Miss Cook were two separate material beings. When
Katie was outside the cabinet standing before me, I
heard a moaning noise from Miss Cook in the cabinet.
I am happy to say that I have at last obtained the “ ab¬
solute proof,” to which I referred in the above quoted
letter.
I will for the present pass over most of the tests
which Katie has given me on the many occasions when
Miss Cook has favoured me with seances at this house,
and will only describe one or two which I have re¬
cently had. I have for some time past been experiment¬
ing with a phosphorus lamp, consisting of a 6 or 8 oz.
bottle containing a little phosphorised oil, and tightly
corked. I have had reason to hope that by the light of
this lamp some of the mysterious phenomena of the
cabinet might be rendered visible, and Katie has also
expressed herself hopefully as to the same result.
On March 12th, during a seance here, after Katie had
been walking amongst us and talking for some time,
she retreated behind the curtain which separated my
laboratory, where the company was sitting, from my
library, which did temporary duty as a cabinet.
In a minute she came to the curtain and called me
to her, saying, i( Come into the room and lift my
medium’s head up, she has slipped down.” Katie was
then standing before me, clothed in her usual white
robes and turban head-dress. I immediately walked
into the library up to Miss Cook, Katie stepping aside to
allow me pass. I found Miss Cook had slipped par¬
tially off the sofa, and her head was hanging in a very
awkward position. I lifted her on to the sofa, and in
so doing had satisfactory evidence, in spite of the
darkness, that Miss Cook was not attired in the “Katie”
costume, but had on her ordinary black velvet dress,
and was in a deep trance. Not more than three seconds
elapsed between my seeing the white-robed Katie
standing before me, and my raising Miss Cook on to the
sofa from the position into which she had fallen.
On returning to my post of observation by the cur-
158
THE SPIRITUALIST.
tain, Katie again appeared, and said, she thought she
should be able to show herself and her medium to me
at the same time. The gas was then turned out, and
she asked for my phosphorus lamp. After exhibiting
herself by it for some seconds, she handed it back to me
saying, “ Now come in and see my medium.” I closely
followed her into the library, and by the light of my
lamp saw Miss Cook lying on the sofa just as I had left
her. I looked round for Katie,, but she had dis¬
appeared. I called her, but there was no answer.
On resuming my place, Katie very soon reappeared,
and told me that she had been standing close to Miss
Cook all the time. She then asked if she might try an
experiment herself, and, taking the phosphorus lamp
from me, she passed behind the curtain, asking me not
to look in for the present. In a few minutes she
handed the lamp back to me, saying that she could not
succeed, as she had used up all the power, but would
try again another time. My eldest son, a lad of four¬
teen, who was sitting opposite me in such a position
that he could see behind the curtain, tells me he dis¬
tinctly saw the phosphorus lamp apparently floating
about in space over Miss Cook, illuminating her as she
lay motionless on the sofa, but he could not see any one
holding the lamp.
I pass on to a seance held last night at Hackney.
Katie never appeared to greater perfection, and for
nearly two hours she walked about the room conversing
familiarly with those present. On several occasions
she took my arm when walking, and the impression
conveyed to my mind that it was a living woman by
my side, instead of a visitor from the other world, was
so strong, that the temptation to repeat a recent cele¬
brated experiment became almost irresistible.
Feeling, however, that if I had not a spirit, I had
at all events a lady close to me, I asked her permission
to clasp her in my arms, so as to be able to verify the
interesting observations which a bold experimentalist has
recently somewhat verbosely recorded. Permission was
graciously given, and I accordingly did—well, as any
gentleman would do under the circumstances. Mr.
Yolckman will be pleased to know that I can corrobo¬
rate his statement that the “ ghost ” (not “ struggling,”
however) was as material a being as Miss Cook herself.
But the sequel shows how wrong it is for an experi¬
mentalist, however accurate his observations may be,
to venture to draw an important conclusion from an in¬
sufficient amount of evidence.
Katie now said she thought she should be able this
time to show herself and Miss Cook together. I was
to turn the gas out, and then come with my phosphorus
lamp into the room now used as a cabinet. This I did,
having previously asked a friend, who was skilful at
shorthand, to take down any statement I might make
when in the cabinet, knowing the importance attaching
to first impressions, and not wishing to leave more to
memory than necessary. His notes are now before me.
.1 went cautiously into the room, it being dark, and
felt about for Miss Cook. I found her crouching on
the floor. Kneeling down, I let air enter the lamp,
and by its light I saw the young lady, dressed in black
velvet, as she had been in the early part of the evening,
and to all appearance perfectly senseless. She did not
move when I took her hand and held the light close to
her face, but continued quietly breathing.
Raising the lamp, I looked around and saw Katie
standing close behind Miss Cook. She was robed in flowing
white drapery, as we had seen her previously during
April 3, 1874.
the seance. Holding one of Miss Cook’s hands in mine,
and still kneeling, I passed the lamp up and down, so
as to illuminate Katie’s whole figure, and satisfy myself
thoroughly that I was really looking at the ‘veritable
Katie whom I had clasped in my arms a few minutes before,
and not at the phantasm of a disordered brain. She
did not speak, but moved her head and smiled in recog¬
nition. Three separate times did I carefully examine Miss
Cook crouching before me, to be sure that the hand I held
was that of a living woman, and three separate times
did I turn the lamp to Katie and examine her with
steadfast scrutiny, until I had no doubt whatever of her
objective reality. At last Miss Cook moved slightly,
and Katie instantly motioned me to go away. I went
to another part of the cabinet, and then ceased to see
Katie, but did not leave the room till Miss Cook woke
up, and two of the visitors came in with a light.
Before concluding this article I wish to give some of
the points of difference which I have observed between
Miss Cook and Katie. Katie’s height varies; in my
house I have seen her six inches taller than Miss Cook.
Last night, with bare feet and not u tip-toeing,” she was
four and a half inches taller than Miss Cook. Katie’s
neck was bare last night; the skin was perfectly
smooth, both to touch and sight, whilst on Miss Cook’s
neck is a large blister, which under similar circum¬
stances is distinctly visible, and rough to the touch.
Katie’s ears are unpierced, ^whilst Miss Cook habitually
wears earrings. Katie’s complexion is very fair,
while that of Miss Cook is very dark. Katie’s fingers
are much longer than Miss Cook’s, and her face is also
larger. In manners and ways of expression there are
also many decided differences.
Miss Cook’s health is not good enough to allow of her
giving more of these test seances for the next few
weeks, and we have therefore strongly advised
her to take an entire rest before recommencing
the experimental campaign which I have sketched out
for her, and the results of which I hope to be able to
record at some future day.
20, Mornington-road, N.W.
March 30, 1874.
Diana op Ephesus.—Last Saturday week Mr. Chas.Thos.
Newton, M.A, of the British Museum, delivered the second
of his course of three lectures at the Eoyal Institution, on
“Mr. Wood’s Discoveries at Ephesus.” He described the
magnificent character of the temple at Ephesus, which in its
day was the wealthiest in Asia Minor, and he exhibited a
likeness of the great goddess Diana, to whom it was dedi¬
cated ; she was described by him as an Asiatic deity. There
were three chief classes of- officials in the temple—first, the
poet laureates, who composed verses in honour of Diana;
secondly, a number of persons through whom the will of the
goddess was made known ;_and thirdly, those who devoted
their attention to.theological subjects. The entire month of
March was devoted to Diana ; and during that time her wor¬
shippers did not clothe themselves in sackcloth and ashes,
but the whole city was given up to festivity; also, on her
birthday, a grand procession left the temple, entered the city
by one gate, and, after making%a circuit, left by another, to
return to the temple, which was situated on marshy ground
outside and not far from the present railway station. The
preaching of St. Paul at Ephesus appeared to have made no
lasting impression, for the' worship of the goddess continued
to flourish for centuries afterwards. It is stated that one of
the early Christian bishops came out on the day of the pro¬
cession and preached against it, which so infuriated the
people that they stoned him to death in open daylight. Mr.
Newton said that he was glad to be able to state that the
stoning of Timothy appeared to have had nothing to do with
the goddess of .whom he had the honour to speak on that
occasion.
April 3, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
159
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. IX.
Ir you have rightly understood what we have pre¬
viously put before you, we may now proceed to add
further some words on the nature of revelation, and the
character of inspiration.
"We say then, to you, that the sacred hooks which make
up your Bible, together with many others which are not
included in it, are the records of that gradual growth in
knowledge of Himself which the great and good God
has given to man. The principle which pervades all
these utterances is one and the same : identical with
that which governs our intercourse with you. So much
of truth is given as man can grasp ; no more under any
circumstances, but just so much as he can grasp, so
much as suffices for his present craving. That truth is
revealed through the instrumentality of a man, and is
always more or less mixed with the thoughts and
opinions of the medium. Nay, the communicating
spirits are perforce obliged to use the material which
is found in the medium’s mind, moulding and fashion¬
ing it for their purpose: erasing fallacies, inspiring new
views of truth, but working on the material which is
already gathered. The purity of the spirit message de¬
pends much on the passivity of the medium, and on
the conditions under which the message is communi¬
cated. Hence, in your records, there are traces here
and there of the individuality of the medium; of
errors caused by imperfect control; of the colour of his
opinions; as well as of special peculiarities addressed
to the special needs of the people to whom the mes¬
sage was first given, and for whose case it 'was pri¬
marily adapted.
You may see for yourself numerous cases of this. If
Isaiah spoke to the people the words of the message
with which he was charged, he impressed upon that
message the individuality of his own mind, and adapted
it to the peculiar needs of the people to whom he spoke.
He told, indeed, of the one Supreme God, but he told of
Him in strains of poesy and ecstatic imagery far dif¬
ferent from the metaphorical and characteristic imagery
of Ezekiel. Daniel had his visions of glory. Jeremiah
his burdens of the Lord who spoke through him. Hosea
his mystic symbolism : each in his individual fashion
told of the same Jehovah, as He knew Him, but each
told his message in his own style as it had been revealed
to him. Singularly in later days, the characteristic
nature of individual communications was preserved. If
Paul and Peter found Occasion to speak of the> same
truth, they almost necessarily viewed it from different
sides. The truth was not less true because two men of
varying minds viewed it from different points, and dealt
with it in his own way. The individuality of the
medium is palpable in the manner if not in the matter
* In the Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of some
remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to he published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium, free, to a large extent at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently, the “ spirit teachings ” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal [nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many: each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to he correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing, peculiar to the communicating intelligence, is always preserved,
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed
of tbe communication. The inspiration is Divine, but
the medium is human.
: Hence it is that man may find in the Bible the reflex
of his own mind, whatever the tone of that mind may
be. The knowledge of God is so small : that which
man has grasped of His nature is so little, that each
person who lives on past revelations, and cannot or
will not extend them, must find in the Bible the reflex
of his mind. He goes to find his own ideal, and lo ! it is
mirrored for him in the utterances of those who spoke
for persons on his mental plane. If no one seer can
satisfy his ideal, he selects from many the points which
please him, rejects the remainder, and manufactures
his own revelation piecemeal. So it is with all sects.
Each frames its own ideal, and proves it by revelations
taken from the Bible. None can accept the whole, be¬
cause the whole is not homogeneous. But each picks
out its suitable pieces, and from them frames its revela.-
tion. When they are brought face to face with others
who have picked out other passages, then comes the
twisting and distorting of words, the explanation (so
they call it) and the commenting on texts : the darken¬
ing of plain meaning : the interpreting of sayings in a
sense never meant either by the communicating spirit
or by the prophet or teacher. By this means inspira¬
tion becomes a vehicle for sectarian opinion; the Bible
an armoury from which each disputant may draw his
favourite weapon; and theology, a matter of private
notion, backed up by false and misleading interpreta¬
tion.
With a theology so framed, we are accused of being
at variance. It is true. We have no commerce with
it. It is of the earth, earthy; base and low in its
conception of God; degrading in its influence on the
soul; insulting to the Deity whom it professes to re¬
veal. We have no part in it. We do indeed contra¬
dict and disown it. It is our mission to reverse its
teaching, to substitute for it truer and nobler views of
God and of the Spirit.
Another reason why much that is false with respect
to God is current among you, as derived from the Bible,
is, that the assumption of infallible inspiration leads
men not only to lay too much stress on words and
phrases, but also to fall into the error of interpreting
too literally that which was intended to be of spiritual
and typical interpretation. In communicating to your
mental plane ideas which are to you inconceivable, we
are obliged to use expressions which are borrowed from
your ways of thought. We ourselves are very fre¬
quently at fault in misusing such expressions; or they
are themselves inadequate to convey our meaning.
Almost all spirit utterances are typical. Especially
when spirits have endeavoured to convey to men ideas
of the great God of whom they themselves know so
little, the language used is necessarily very imperfect,
inadequate, and frequently ill chosen. - But it is always
typical, and must be so understood. To press to the
end of literal accuracy any spirit-teaching about God is
mere folly.
Moreover, the revelations of God have been made in
language suited to the capacities of those to whom they
were originally given, and are to be so interpreted.
But they who have framed for themselves the idea of
an infallible revelation applicable through all time, in¬
terpret every word literally, and so deduce erroneous
conclusions. The hyperbole which was intelligible in
the mouth of the impulsive seer who uttered it to an
imaginative and enthusiastic Eastern hearer, becomes
160
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 3, 1874.
overstrained, untrue, and misguiding when coldly in¬
terpreted in the light of comment and verbal exactness
to those whose habits of thought .and language are
widely different or even totally dissimilar.
It is to this cause that we must attribute many views
of the Supreme which are alike false and dishonouring
to Him. The original language was inadequate enough ;
it has become coloured more or less by the medium
through whom it has passed, and is then less adequate
than before. But interpreted as we have pointed out,
it becomes positively false ; and is in no sense the re¬
velation of God. Rather it is man’s notion about a
Deity whom he has framed for himself—framed as really
as the image which the savage forms for his fetish.
With such views, again, we have no accord. Them,
too, we denounce, and our mission is to substitute for
them a truer and nobler knowledge. Moreover, in
dealing with you, spirits always proceed in one uni¬
form manner. They are sent to communicate through
a human medium some portion of Divine truth. In
the medium’s mind they find a growth of opinions,
some false, some partly true, some distorted and be¬
fogged by early prejudice and training. Are these to
be eradicated before the truer ideas are suggested ? Is
the mind to be completely cleared of all preconceived
ideas ? By no means. It is not so we act. Were we
to do so the work of eradication would be so tedious
that we should risk leaving the mind bare of teaching
altogether, and should have destroyed without being
able to create. Ho; we take the opinions already
existent, and mould them into closer semblance of
truth. All have in some sort the germ of truth, or we
destroy them. With such as contain truth, we strive
to grapple, and to mould and form them to progress
and advancement in knowledge. We know of how
little worth are. the theological notions to which men
attach so much importance 5 and we are content to
leave them to die in the brighter light to which we
lead the soul, while we supply the needed information
on important topics. Only we must eradicate dogma¬
tism. That is all-important. Opinion, when harm¬
less, we do not meddle with.
Hence it is that theological notions may remain very
much what they were, only toned down and softened
in their asperities. So men falsely say that spirits
always teach that which a man has previously believed.
It is far from being so. What we now teach you is
sufficient proof of that. The spirit-guides do indeed
work on that which they find already in the mind: but
they mould and temper it, and imperceptibly change and
adapt it to their ends. It is only when the views held are
such as they cannot work upon, or of a positive and dog¬
matic type that the change wrought becomes plain to
your eyes. You find a man who has denied the existence
of God and of spirit, who has believed only what he
can see and feel and handle; such a materialist you see
converted to a belief in God and a future existence, and
ye wonder at the change. But the spirit that has been
tempered, and chastened and softened: that has been
purified, and refined, and elevated: whose rude and
rough beliefs have been toned and softened, of this
change ye make no note, because it is too gradual and
subtle to be perceptible to your senses. Yet such are
the glorious results of our daily work. The crude is
softened; the hard, and cold, and cheerless are warmed
into loving life; the pure is refined; the noble ennobled :
the good made better; the yearning soul satisfied with
richer views of its God and of its future happiness.
The opinions have not been suppressed, but they have
been modified and changed. This is the real existent
spirit influence all around of which ye know nothing
as yet: the most real and blessed part of spirit mi¬
nistry.
When, therefore, men say that spirits speak only the
medium’s preconceived opinions, they are partly right.
The opinions, in so far as they are harmless, are the
previous ones, only moulded in a way not perceptible
to your gaze as yet. When the opinions are hurtful,
they are eradicated and destroyed.
When we deal with special forms of theological creed,
we strive, in so far as we can, to spiritualise previous
opinion rather than to eradicate it. We know—as ye
cannot know—of how trifling moment are forms of
faith, provided the faith be alive and spiritual: and we
strive, therefore, to build on the foundation already
laid. To this end, however, whilst the broad outlines,
which are in themselves partially truthful, or which
embody as much of truth as the intelligence can grasp,
are preserved, much that is false and delusive must be
cleared away. So the work of destruction precedes the
work of construction. The soul is purged of gross
error, and the truth is refined and purified as far as
may be. Hence it is that we do usually teach a modi¬
fication of the views of truth held by those to whom we
speak.
And now, friend, you will see the bearing of this
on your difficulty. We have endeavoured, not to up¬
root from your mind the views which you have enter¬
tained of theology, but to modify them. If you will
recal the past, you will see how your creed has been
gradually widened from a very narrow basis to a com¬
prehensive and rational one. You have, under our
guidance, been made acquainted with the theological
tenets of many churches and sects. You have been
led to see, in each, the germ of truth, more or less
developed, is clouded with human error. You have
studied, for yourself, the writings of the teachers of
religion among the Christian world, and your own
creed has been toned down and softened in its asperities
by the divergent views of truth so let in upon it. The
process has beenlongand gradual from the days when you
were influenced to the study of ancient philosophies to
later days, when systems of theology filtered through
it, and left behind them that which you were able to
assimilate. The fixed and changeless creed of the
Eastern branch of the Christian Church, with its
crystallised dogmas no longer ^living and breathing
truths; the destructive criticism of German scholars
who have dealt a much-needed blow to blind belief in
the verbal exactitude of human utterances; the specu¬
lations of advanced thought in your own country and
Church; the ideas of those external to it, and even to
the creed of Christendom—of all these have you learned,
and have retained from the several systems that which
was serviceable to you. It has been a long and very
gradual work, and now we wish to carry you further,
and to show you the ideal truth, spiritual, impassable,
but most real, which underlies all with Which you are
familiar. We would strip off the earthly body, and show
you the real, vital truth in its spiritual significance.
We would have you know that the spiritual ideal of
Jesus the Christ is no more like the human notion, with
its accessories of atonement and redemption, as men
have grasped them, than was the calf ignorantly carved
by the ancient Hebrews like the God who strove to
reveal Himself to them. We wish to show you, as. you
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 3, 1874.
161
can grasp it, the spiritual truths which underlie the
life of Him who is known to you as the Saviour, the
Redeemer, the Son of God. We would tell you of the
true significance of the life of the Christ, and show
you, as we can, how low and mean are the views of
Him which we are striving to do away with.
You ask how the sign of the Cross can be prefixed to
such teaching. Eriend, the spirit truth of which that
sign is typical is the very cardinal truth which it is our
special mission to declare. The self-denying love which
would benefit humanity even at the sacrifice of life and
home and earthly happiness—the pure spirit of the
Christ, this is what we would declare to you as the
godlike spirit. This is the true salvation from mean¬
ness and self-aggrandisement, and self-pleasing and
luxurious sloth which can redeem humanity, and make
of men the children of God. This self-abnegation and
incarnate love is that which can atone for sin, and
make man like to God. This is the true atonement!
Hot, indeed, a reconciliation of sin-stained humanity
to an angry and holy God, purchased by the sacrifice of
His sinless son, but a higher and truer atonement in the
ennobling of the nature, the purifying of the spirit;
the making of the human and the divine one in aim
and purpose; the drawing of man’s spirit, even whilst
incarned, up nearer and nearer to the Divine.
This was the mission of the Christ. In this He was
a manifestation of God : the son of God : the Saviour
of man: the Reconciler: the Atoner: and herein we
perpetuate His work, we carry on His mission, we work
under His symbol, we fight against the enemies of His
faith, against all who ignorantly or wilfully dishonour
Him, even though it be under the banner of orthodoxy
and under the protection of His Name.
Much that we teach must still be- new and strange
even to those who have progressed in knowledge; but
the days shall come when men shall recognise the one¬
ness of Christ’s teaching on earth with ours; and the
human garb, gross and material, in which it has been
shrouded, shall be rent asunder, and men shall see the
true grandeur of the life and teaching of Him whom they
ignorantly worship, In those days they shall worship
with no less reality, but with a more perfect knowledge;
and they shall know that the sign under which we
speak is the symbol of purity and self-sacrificing love
to them and to their brethren for all'time. This end
it is our earnest endeavour to attain. Judge of our
mission by this standard, and it is of God, godlike:
noble as He is noble : pure as He is pure: truth giving
as He is true : elevating, and saving, and purifying the
spirit from the grossness of earthly conceptions to the
very atmosphere and neighbourhood of the spiritual
and the divine.
Ponder our words: and seek for guidance, if not
through us, then through Him who sent us, even as,
in earlier days. He sent that exalted spirit of purity,
charity and self-sacrifice, whom men called Jesus, and
who was the Christ.
Him we adore even now. His Name we reverence.
His words we echo. His teaching lives again in ours.
He and we are of God: and in His Name we come.
+ I. S. D.
The Meligio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago), of March
21st last, republished from the Spiritualist some of the
Spirit Teachings, also an extract from the last article con¬
tributed to these pages by Mrs. Showers. The Banner of
Light (Boston, U. S.), has also quoted a recent report in the
Spiritualist about the mediumship of Mr, Jencken’s baby.
WHAT IS DEATH ?
Judge Edmonds has sent us the following interesting
letter, which, he published in the New York Herald:—
Sir,—The erroneous ideas, on this subject which have for
so long a time been inculcated by the theology of the day,
and the consequently false opinions which have prevailed among
men, will evidently require much time and many teachings
to correct. Such teachings, however, are now (and for a quarter
of a century have been) coming with increasing frequency, and
it seems to me to be the manifest duty of those who receive
them to give them to the world.
Acting under that impression, I have already made public
much on the subject, and now add to the number the following
which I have lately received from one of the victims of the
late collision at sea between the steamer Ville Bn Havre and
a British sailing vessel.
Judge Peckham was a member of the Court of Appeals of
New York—the highest Court in the State—and had acquired
a high reputation as a jurist. He took passage with his wife
in the steamer, and died in the bloom of his manhood and
in the full vigour of his intellect; so that he was fully com¬
petent to comprehend and relate all that occurred around him.
His spirit came to me lately, and identifying himself to my
satisfaction, gave me the following communication, which I
now transcribe in the precise language in which 1 re¬
ceived it. J. W. Edmonds.
New York, Feb. 14th, 1874.
My Dear Friend,—I shall waive all ceremony with you,
and enter upon this, our interview, not assuming, but knowing
that you are aware of my presence almost as tangibly as when
I last met you in Albany, in the Court Room, where you and
I had listened and tried to be still, out of respect to the
majesty of the law. You left the Court Room in advance of
me. I tried to see you again, but you left that evening. We
meet again here under different circumstances. I will not say
I am from the Higher Court to-day, for as yet I have found
no court or sphere into which your thoughts, which represent
your spirit, do not come. Hence there are no severed links in
our friendship, when we still sit in council with those we
knew and loved.
Had I have chosen the manner of my departure from the
body, I should not have selected the one to which I was
obliged to succumb. However, I find no fault, now that
I realise the life which has opened before me so suddenly, so
strangely.
In the dying moments I lived my life all over. Every
scene, every act passed before me as vividly as if written on
my brain with living light. Not a friend that I had known
in early or later life was forgotten. I saw, as I sank, with my
wife folded to my heart, my mother and father. The former
lifted me out of the wave with a strength which I can at this
moment feel, and I have no recollection of suffering.
From the moment that I knew the waves would engulf us,
I had no sensation of fear, of cold, or of suffocation. I did
not hear the waves break. I parted with that which was my
body, and, with my wife still in my arms, followed my mother
whither she led me.
The first sad thought was for my dear brother. This my
mother saw and felt, and at once said, “ Your brother will
soon be with you! ” From that moment sorrow seemed to
fade away, and I sat down to look about upon the scene
through which I had so recently passed. I felt solicitude for
my fellow-passengers ; looked for them and saw them being
lifted out of the waves in precisely the same manner that your
strong arm, nerved by love, would lift your drowning child
from the great waves which would swallow him up.
For a time this appeared so real, that had it not been for
the presence of those whom I knew to be dead, I should
have believed myself acting as rescuer with the spirits.
I write plainly to you, hoping that you will send words of
comfort to those who imagine that their friends suffered
mortal agony in drowning. There was a fulfilment of that
glorious triumph of faith, and the shadow of death became an
illumination, which enabled so many to say that death’s waves
were swallowed up in the victory which love hath brought to
light in the ministry of angels and spirits.
I need not tell you the greetings which awaited me when
the many, whom you and I knew and loved, welcomed
me to the realms of the life immortal. Not having been sick
or suffering, I was ready at once to accept facts, and to move
forward to the attractions which, if on earthrs plane, have the
power to charm away sorrow, how much more enchanting
162
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 3, 1874.
here, where the scene has changed so quickly, so gloriously,
that we do not murmur at the haste, nor think that it is dis¬
appointment or accident that summoned us unceremoniously,
hither!
- I am aware that many will ask, if we could he helped to
pass out of the body without pain, why could not the accident
have been prevented ? In our investigations we have learned
this fact, namely, that the officer in charge was so entirely
deceived in regard to the distance between the Loch Earn and
his own vessel, that no power on earth, or that which the
spirit-world could bring to bear, could have prevented it.
Hence the collision was inevitable. There are conditions of
sight, particularly on the water, when the water will seem to
possess a power of deception almost marvellous and past
belief. The ablest and best are liable to these conditions,
particularly at just the position that these vessels must have,
been in. Hence there should he no blame attached to that
man. It is done, and the survivors most need sympathy, and
I know of no way. to give it more direct than to assure them
that their loved friends are not slumbering in the caverns of
the deep awaiting the final trump to sound, but that at all
times they await and look for the proper channels through
which to echo the unmistakable evidence of life immortal.
My thanks are due to our mutual friends, Tallmadge, Van
Buren, Hill,* and many others, for this delightful reunion
with you; nor can I end it without thanking you for a faith
which, although silent between us, made me to respect you the
more. I have come now into that nearer circle of friendship
which I shall cherish as I know you will—sacred as the love
which makes us to rejoice in our great and all-wise Father,
who doeth all things well.
Craving pardon for the length of my letter, I promise you
and myself still further intercourse with your friend,
Rufus W. Peckham.
PKIYATE SEANCES.
A SEANCE AT MRS. GREGORY’S—REMARKABLE PHENOMENA.
The careful and conclusive experiments conducted by
Messrs. Yarley and Crookes with Miss Cook, seem to
have demonstrated scientifically the independent exist-
ance of the materialised form. It is no longer doubt¬
ful whether in Miss Cook’s case, the so-called materiali¬
sation be merely the presentation of the body of the
medium in a state of unconscious trance. This point,
so far established, is of such importance that any cor¬
roboration of it from collateral sources ought, it seems
to me, to be noted. Such corroboration I am able to
supply in some measure from the exceptional oppor¬
tunity of observation which I enjoyed at Mrs. Gregory’s
seance, at 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W., with
Miss Showers, on Tuesday evening last. Mr. Noyes
has already briefly drawn the attention of your readers
to the general success of the sitting, but I had such
rare opportunity for observation during a period of an
hour and an half, that I can supply many details which
no other present had means of observing. I do this not
only in the interests of science, but also out of con¬
sideration for Miss Showers herself. Ready as she
always is to submit to any test, still, as she ventures
into the society of many who are utterly unacquainted
with the A B 0 of Spiritualism, she does not escape
altogether the fate that waits on all pioneers of a new
truth.
The average intellect is startled by being brought
face to face with so portentous a manifestation as
the one I am about to describe. It is not able to grasp
the reality, and jumps at once to the theory of decep¬
tion. “ My senses deceived me.” That hypothesis
satisfies some. And if not, the alternative is ready.
“ Well then, somebody or something did.” I wish, if
I can, to do the medium in this case the plain justice of
* The allusion here is to N. P. Tallmadge, U. S. Senator, President Van
Buren, and Nicholas Bill, formerly an emicent lawyer at Albany, all of
whom have frequently communed with me.—J. W. E.
showing that no unconscious deception has been prac¬
tised by her spirit guides, such as is involved in the
idea that the body entranced was presented to us as the
materialised form of Florence Maples.
Let me premise that a cabinet was made by parti¬
tioning off the back drawing-room with a thin frame¬
work covered with ordinary wall paper. In this frame¬
work was a door, and an aperture at which the spirit
fape usually appears. Within the cabinet was a piano,
a sofa, and some chairs. There was no means of egress
from the room, except by means of the door which led
into the front drawing-room in which we sat. I will
not dwell on what took place before the medium went
into the cabinet. As soon as she entered, she herself
—or the spirit “ Peter,” rather, speaking through her—
proposed to Mrs. Gregory that a search for any con¬
cealed drapery should be made. This was declined.
Those who know most of the delicate conditions which
usually accompany these manifestations, will not con¬
sider that they would be likely to be improved by sub¬
jecting a lady to the indignity of being searched for the
discovery of her implements of deception. Nor was
it deemed advisable to tie her to the leg of a piano as,
I am sorry to say, was once before done. We con¬
sidered that such mode of testing was neither decent
nor profitable. She was simply placed on a chair in
the most distant corner of the room, and I left her
sitting there with a black silk dress on, her hair loosely
flowing over her shoulders. After the usual painful
attempts at singing, which is the inevitable punishment
in these cases, I heard the voice of the spirit Florence
speaking within the partition near the door. My chair
was within two feet of the door throughout the even¬
ing. The room having been partially darkened, I
opened the door, and saw in the dim light a form clad
from head to foot in white. By degrees it floated
rather than stepped, through the door into the room in
which we sat. The projecting framework over which
she passed seemed no impediment, though it was six or
eight inches from the floor, and was somewhat awkward
to step over. The figure was now so close to me that
I could touch it with ease. It remained within my
reach for an hour and a half, during which time I
scrutinised it with great care, and observed some very
curious facts. Moreover, all the fourteen sitters came,
saw, and touched it. It sat down in a chair which I
handed to it, and otherwise comported itself as “ one of
us.”
Now for the points to which I wish to advert.
1. The medium entered the cabinet in a black silk
dress, with long flowing hair, and with high-heeled
boots on her feet. The figure of Florence emerged
from the cabinet, with a head encircled with drapery,
and with a long net veil that covered her shoulders,
and descended to her waist. The upper part of the
body was covered by some very soft material—of wool
apparently; the lower part by a linen garment, which
trailed on the floor. After the seance the medium was
found on the floor flat on her face, close to the chair
on which I left her. The long hair was undisturbed;
the silk dress, the boots were there, and no appearance
of disorder could be detected. Will your lady readers
say whether they conceive it possible that such altera¬
tion of dress could have been made in the dark by the
most skilful actress; or whether such change, involving
the pulling off and on of a silk dress could have escaped
a sharp ear planted close to the partition ? Probably
the question answers itself.
April 3, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
163
2. I noticed that the figure of Florence seemed taller
than that of the medium, as it stood in the doorway.
I therefore asked it to stand by my side. It did so,
and the height was carefully observed. After the seance,
I requested the medium to stand in the same position,
and a differotloe of net less than four inches was found
to exist between her and Florence.
3. "When the figure first emerged from the cabinet,
I asked it to shake hands with me. A cold, clammy
claw rather than hand, was stiffly jerked from the side,
as though a string had been pulled. I touched it, and
found it to be unnaturally formed, cold to the touch,
and unlike human flesh. I took several opportunities
of touching the hand during the evening, and I found
that it gradually acquired vital heat, lost its abnormal
shape and feel, and became like a human hand, but
always larger and longer than the medium’s. "When
once it had got shape and warmth it retained it through
the evening.*
4. Although the hands and arms are naturally formed
and the body correctly shaped, the face never assumed
a natural look, and during a part at least of the evening
I believe that feet were wanting. I passed my foot
under the figure, which seemed to be off the floor, and
found no obstacle. I believe that no feet were there.
The face presented throughout the evening a completely
abnormal appearance. The complexion was pasty, and
like bad waxwork: the lips compressed so as to give an
appearance of pain: and the glassy eyes, with their
perpetual stare, gave the face a most unnatural look.
I tried all in my power to make the eyes blink, but in
vain. The whites were unnaturally large, and no
eyelids were perceptible. The face was inhuman
throughout the night, though at other times I have
seen it look natural and pretty.
5. I felt the breath from the mouth, and I saw the
chest rise and fall as breath was drawn. Moreover,
as the figure stood touching me, by my side, I could
feel the beating of the heart. There was apparently a
fully-organised body.
6. I handed the figure my chair and asked it to sit
down, not very long after it first appeared. The pro¬
cess of sitting down was most peculiar. I apologise for
my expression, but 1 can find no other. It simply
doubled up, as though some one had touched a spring
which caused it to bend. The legs were bundled under¬
neath in soMe way, and the whole process was as un¬
like a lady taking a seat as can well be imagined. At
a later period of the evening the process was easy,
graceful, and natural.
7. During the whole evening the figure was in im¬
mediate contiguity to me. I could touch it at will. I
was frequently between it and the cabinet. I could
have gone through the door into the cabinet, or
have grasped the figure at will. This scarcely savours
of a tricking spirit, I fancy. Such would have been
careful that it should not be at the mercy of any curious
investigator, especially one who had shown such pry¬
ing curiosity as I had.
I do not propose to offer any theory to account for
the facts which I have recorded. I have none : and I
must see much before I care to frame one. This form
certainly stood more handling, inspecting, and probing
than any I ever saw. Indeed, that a young medium
who scarcely knew anyone in a room filled with four¬
teen people should have been able to evoke such a mani-
* These “ full forms,” through the mediumship both of Miss Showers
and Miss Cook, are always cold at first, hut gradually grow warmer.—Ed.
festation, argues the possession of medial’power of a very
rare order. The figure seemed quite reluctant to go,
and departed apparently in better condition than when
it first appeared.
I have already said that I applied my ear to the thin
paper which alone separated us from the cabinet, after
the seance was over : and it only remains for me to re¬
cord my conviction, as a further test, that no move¬
ment of the medium in the cabinet could have escaped
me. I heard no sound whatever. Complete stillness
prevailed in the cabinet; and I entertain no doubt that
the medium was lying, as we afterwards found her,
deeply entranced on the floor. M. A.
SPIRIT FORMS IN PARIS—MADAME LOUISE’S MEDIUM SHIP—
RECOGNISABLE SPIRIT FACES.
The following narrative is from the Christian
Spiritualist of last Wednesday:—
About six weeks ago we received a letter from Mr. Samuel
Chinnery, of Paris, of which the following is an exact copy:
To the Editor of the “ Christian Spiritualist''
Paris, 52, Rue de Rome, February 13,1874.
Sir,—^Whatever the damaging facts against Mrs. Firman
may be, as mentioned by your Manchester correspondent in
your No. 2 of Yol. 4, and which are only alluded to in a
general and sweeping manner, it is a remarkable thing that
here in Paris she was thoroughly examined before the exhibi¬
tion took place in my house, and in that of other people in
this city. In one instance at a house where Mrs. Firman had
only visited once, the figure of a beautiful boy came, who was
so well recognised by his father that we had the greatest diffi¬
culty in calming him. This lad was his last child, and had
been shot in the Commune time. He appeared exactly as in
life ; the figure was like his portrait, Mrs. Firman never even
having seen the father or the portrait. At another sitting at
the house of a friend, where Mrs. Firman had never been, the
figure of a hard-faced military-looking man appeared, re¬
cognised by a Captain de M. as a deceased brother officer of
his who committed suicide.
These persons are positive of the likenesses; nothing can
move them. At the house of a Russian gentleman and mili¬
tary man, who had fought in the Caucasus, I distinctly saw a
bust, face, and sort of quaint cap; the bust was decorated
and the dress was coloured as though that of a military man;
the figure, of Eastern look, scanned the host very closely. It
would have been difficult for Mrs. Firman to have known the
host’s career, and accordingly to have improvised a figure
which should fit into facts, especially in a city where she
could not move out without some one to accompany her.
There will ever be doubts thrown upon such wonderful things,
and the melancholy fact, and really a phenomenal one, is that
old experimentalists like myself realise, that it is not at all
incompatible with good mediumship for the active agents to
cheat and make up for what the spirits cannot do or do not
intend to do. Samuel Chinnery.
It will be seen that the above letter was deficient in certain
particulars. We therefore wrote the following paragraph
in our last number:—“Mr. Samuel Chinnery, 52, Rue de
Rome, Paris, has sent us a letter on Madame Louise’s medium-
ship, of whom he speaks as ‘ Mrs. Firman,’ although why we
do not know. We would gladly have printed his letter, for
the sake of some interesting particulars it contains, only that
he has not complied with our * Standing Notice ’ to give
exact names, residences, and dates. Mr. Chinnery says, speak¬
ing of this lady medium, ‘ It is not at all incompatible with
good mediumship for the active agents to cheat, and make up
for what the spirits cannot or do not intend to do.’ Would
Mr. Chinnery kindly send us a fresh account of the pheno¬
mena mentioned in his letter, giving the exact particulars we
| need.”
In response to the above we have received the following
j letter from Mr. Chinnery:—
To the Editor of the “ Christian Spiritualist."
Paris, 52, Rue de Rome, 14 March, 1874.
Sir,—You claim for names and dates omitted in my last
communication regarding Mrs. Firman, or Madame Louise.
She was called Madame Louise in America, as midwife "and
164
THE SPIRITUALIST.
female practitioner, her married name being Louise Firman:
Firman being the name of her second husband.
The figure which appeared and was recognised as the like¬
ness of a military officer deceased in Dublin, was pronounced
by Capt. Montmorency, of 12, Boulevard St. Germain, Paris,
to be like his comrade Burns, officer in the same regiment.
This seance took place at Miss Anna Blackwell’s, 66, Avenue
d’Eylau, Paris, in March of last year.
The figure of the boy which appeared was that of the son of
Monsieur Larcy, of the Bue Dronot, Paris. This occurred at
Monsieur Gustave de Yeh’s, 26, Avenue des Champs Elysees,
March of last year. Same date and place for the Eastern
figure I alluded to. Mrs. Firman (Madame Louise) was well
searched, and she had to appear in places strange to her.
S. Chinnery.
SPIRITUAL CHRISTIANITY FROM A SWEDEN-
BORGIAN POINT OF YIEW.* '
BY WILLIAM OXLEY.
“ That which is bom of the flesh is flesh, and that which is bom of the
Spirit is spirit.”—Bible, John iii. 6.
Accepting this statement as a truism, it is unnecessary to
say that matter is not spirit, and spirit is not matter; they
are quite distinct from each other, and have nothing in com¬
mon, save that matter is necessary for the manifestation of
spirit in the world of nature or on the earth plane.
In all forms of organic life the animating principle is
spirit ; while that which ia so animated is called matter.
Matter in, or by itself, is devoid of life, and can only be said
to be living while it is associated with or used by the spirit,
which gives it form and configuration, and uses it for the
purpose for which it is intended for the time being ; this use,
in the human organism, is to enable the spirit to communicate
with the world of nature outside, and with other spirits em¬
bodied like itself. For any other purpose, and for any other
world than that of nature, matter is useless and non est.
But it is impossible for spirit to exist without subsistence,
that is, it cannot be, or exist, without something to exist in.
This “ existence,” in the sphere proper to the spirit, is an
embodiment, not material, but substantial. As to what this
substance is in itself is unknown, for, like matter, we only
know of it in combination of form or forms •, for, resolve or
re-resolve it as we may, it still remains matter, and probably
this is all we can say about it. So. with spiritual substance ;
its composition, most probably, is as much unknown to spirits
as matter is to mortals; but, be this as it may, the fact of
spiritual embodiment and substantiality is proved beyond any
doubt, not only by their testimony, but by the power possessed
by some spirits to clothe their own proper forms with earthly
matter for a time.
It is a property peculiar to disembodied or spiritual beings,
that they exist in spheres in which time and space are non est,
these latter terms being only applicable to certain appearances
in the natural world-; the relation of one event or action, or a
set of events and actions, to the individual spirit, or a collec¬
tive number of spirits, is determined, not by the effluxion of
time, or distance in space, but by the changing of state ; and
as the progression of the spirit is advanced, the enjoyment and
activity of life is intensified, just as with us, as we advance in
years, the past fades away from the memory, and we live in
the present, rather than in the past and future.
There is, however, a connection or a nexus existing between
spirit and matter, and also between disembodied and embodied
spirits. This nexus is the affluent life force, from its source
the great first cause, through the spiritual spheres, into the world
of nature, where it passes through man the head and chief of
all organised forms of life, down through the animal, vege¬
table, and mineral forms, where it terminates. This affluent
current of life is subject to a law of operation, and its effect
is to produce all objects which are present within the range of
our senses of sight, hearing, &c. So that the result is, viz.,
that all things, animate and inanimate, that exist outside of
man, are the representations of that which exists within man,
this again being the reflex of that which is existent in the
world of spirits, and so on to the very highest spheres in¬
* The object of this communication is to show that some parts of the
Jewish and Christian sacred writings, commonly known as the “Bible,”
contain an “ interior" sense, which is not apparent in the mere letter; and
when sointerpretedand understood, are subject to a law as demonstrable^as
any law in nature; and, further, that a knowledge of this law (let this law
be called the Law of Correspondences) enables the mind to understand
something of the phenomena of all “appearances,” whether in the world
of nature or of spirit; and also that, by the principles of this law, all the
phenomena of Modern Spiritualism may be resolved into an exact science. I
April-3, 1874.
habited by angelic beings of (to us) incomprehensible intel¬
ligence and power.
The knowledge of this law of life must of necessity be by
revelation, but when it is revealed, it is seen, not to be a
question of metaphysical speculation, but positive knowledge,
and is as demonstrable as any known law of nature. The
principles of this law, applied chiefly to the interpretation of
Holy Writ, are clearly laid down in the writings of Emmanuel
Swedenborg, and a knowledge of the rules or principles
necessary for the interpretation of the sacred writings will
enable us to interpret all the phenomenal world of nature.
By the aid of this law we know that the spiritual struc¬
ture has an organism, to which the bodily and natural one
corresponds, but is only a correspondence, hence the fallacy
of forming our ideas of spirit and spiritual substance, from
natural and material things. They have nothing in common,
each world and state possessing properties and qualities
peculiar to itself.
Assuming or accepting the constant presence and activity
of this law of correspondence, it will be admitted that if
the Scriptures, or certain portions of them, are subject in
all and every part of these certain portions, to the applica¬
tion of this principle of interpretation, then it follows that a
revelation is made of that which is spiritual and heavenly, and
as such, that they reveal or make known to us the things
which pertain to the human spiritual organism ; and although
the mere letter or words appear to treat of earthly things, yet
they inwardly treat of the things which belong to man as
a spiritual being, or in other words, that they have especial
relation to that part of man which is immortal. If this be
so, and to many minds who have made this study the sub¬
ject of careful thought and investigation, it has become
absolute truth, it will be seen that the writings, known as
the Gospels in the New Testament, have reference to states
of the human mind, and are descriptive of these, rather
than a historical or literal record of facts in the life of the
Lord Jesus Christ; without Christ there could be no Chris¬
tianity, and the question is whether the natural or material
view, held by the generality of so-called Christians, is in
accordance with the true spiritual facts, for it is well to
remember that a spiritual fact pertains to intuition and not to
natural history.
Let us examine the latter statement, and see how it bears
upon human ecclesiasticisms, or churches, as they are called.
The root, or radical idea, upon which Christianity, and in
fact, upon which all forms of religion is based, is the idea of a
Divine incarnation, and every new form of belief or organisa¬
tion, is but another effort to realise, or to give expression to
this most interior thought. We know that this formed the
chief feature of the ancient Egyptian, Chaldean, Buddist,
Braminical, and other religions; it is the same with the
Christian religion. It is the attempt, at least in thought, to
personify that which in its very nature is impossible to be
personated, and, as a consequence, the supposed, incarnation
of divinity is the highest human ideal or conception of the
perfection of life in form and shape.
The word Divine is by common consent only applicable to
God, and as the attributes of God1 are infinite, comprehending
omniscience, omnipresence, and omnipotence, it is obvious
these cannot be predicated of the human being. These belong
exclusively to the great First Cause, the sole, self-existent
Being, who is life, love, and wisdom, and power, in first
principles only. It must be admitted there cannot be two or
more first principles, or first causes. It therefore follows,
that the first cause is the Creator, and the action of the first
cause or first form is resultant in the formation of all other
forms which are created to be the recipients and expressions
of the first form, which is necessarily invisible and incompre¬
hensible as to its, or his, actuality, quality, and being.
For the Creator to incarnate Himself, would be to become
Himself incarnated, for the infinite to become infinited, for
the eternal to become located in time and space, and is in the
very nature of things impossible. Spiritual Christianity teaches
us that we are not to look outside of ourselves in time and
space, to a supposed literal and historical event in a certain
specified locality, but to look withi/n the human organism, and
when the qualities of the mind are manifested by purity of
thought and intention, and in willingness to act out into life
the Divine commandments, to love the Lord our God with all
the mind and heart, and the-neighbour as ourselves, then the
consciousness of a higher and more interior kind of life will
be made known to us; so that the words of Scripture may be
fulfilled in us, “ God dwelleth in us, and we in God.”
Manchester, March 24, 1874.
THE SPIEITtJALIST.
165
April S, 1874.
MISS FOWLER IN GLASGOW.
The following, which we quote from The Paisley Herald of
last Saturday, is part of an account written by a private gen¬
tleman, about a seance he had with Miss Lottie Fowler at the
“ Crown Hotel,” Glasgow:—
“ Have you seen the article in the Mail about me ? ”
“ No, I have not; at least I have not read it.”
“ Oh, dear me, it is so funny. It writes me down, but I
don’t care. You should have seen the old beau who came to
me. Quite a stiff old dandy; I could not like him; and
his moustache was so prim, so pedantic ! Are you on the
Press ? ”
“No.”
“ Do you know Mr. ?” naming a leading'newspaper man
in Glasgow.
“ I know him a little.”
r Do you know Mr. ? ” naming another.
“ I have heard of him.”
Satisfied at last that I was not a reporter come to entrap
her, we talked on a great variety of subjects. At last suddenly
she said,
“ What is your object in coming here ? ”
“Well, to be candid with you, I came here to satisfy myself
that Spiritualism is all humbug.”
“ Are you sincere in what you say ?”
“Most assuredly.”
tfe I like you for your candour. Does any one know you are
here ? ”
“ Not a human being save the waiter and boots, who saw me
come in.”
“ Sure ? ”
“ Certain.”
“ Then the spirits will be good. Do you wish a eeance ? ”
“I came for that purpose.”
The lady then drew her chair close,, to the couch on which
I sat, took both my hands in hers, and we sat looking at each
other. It was very funny. Her hands were delicately small
and white, her fingers long and slender. I repeated the words,
wishing to be gallant, “ So tender and so fair a thing is
woman’s soft white hand.”
“ O dear, are you a poet? ” and she laughed outright.
We continued holding each other’s hands for, I should say,
half-an-hour, chatting about all sorts of matters.
“ And you don’t believe in Spiritualism ? ”
“ Not a bit.”
“ Then I shall make you.”
“ How on earth can you make a sensible man believe that
you can divine the past. What is your theory ? ”
“I am a medium. Oh,you should read our books.”
“ But why you a medium any more than I ? ”
“ Listen. I am a twin, and my brother died at his birth.
I was given up, and the grave was kept open for three days to
receive my little coffin. I got well, and the spirits! selected me
as a medium.”
She mentioned some particulars of her birth, which partook
of the weird witch blasted heath scene in Macbeth. My nerves
remained unshaken. In a little her eyes gradually closed.
Opening them, and looking at me, she said—
“ I am getting sleepy, very sleepy.”
And then a slight sigh, a twitching of the hands, a spas¬
modic pressure of mine, the eyes opening and closing, latterly
nothing seen when open but an opaque white substance as if
the balls were out. She then became to all appearance quite
entranced. Still keeping my hands in hers, she began in a
. low and gentle voice—the voice of the spirit according to the
theory—to speak. I kept cool, for the situation was a trying
one. I resolved to say nothing, but allow the spirit full play.
Plaintively said the spirit—“Ah ! me, you are a happy man,
happy to the world’s eye, you are brave and bear up, but there
is a secret grief at your heart. Is there not, is there not,
am I right ? You are a rich man, but nobody left you any
money. Ah! what’s that I see ? Something, something. I
can’t distinctly see—yes, it is iron, and I see a place called the
Exchange, you go in and out often, often. I see you distinctly,
you are a speculator /”
Then she slowly, finger by finger, released her hands from
mine, and rubbed her eyes, showing again the spectral opaque
white.
“ Let me see,let me see. Haver you a father? No, no, you
have not. He is dead, long, long ago. {True.) Your mother
survived him, but she is dead. Her name was . (Correct.)
You have a brother; he is living; his name is . {{Correct.)
You have sisters living, and dead. (One vrrong as
to latter.) Wrong am I ? One less ? Oh, let mye see. Did
one die very young, just a little child ? No ? So strange. . I
see her distinctly, but I cannot tell you her name. She is in
the tenth sphere, and seems so little. She is far away, but
she is looking at you at this moment. You have a sister
called  ; no, it is . (The latter correct.) And you
have another called . (Correct.) The other names the
spirit did not tell.”
At this stage I consulted my watch. It was exactly nine
o’clock, and the last train was 9.15 p.m., and the medium was
still entranced. I felt at a loss what to do. To leave her so
I was unwilling to do, so I resolved to cab it home, and see it
out.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BLYTON,
On Thursday evening, last week, at the ordinary weekly
meeting of ,the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism, at the rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E., Mr.
Alfred E. Lovell, president, occupied the chair. There was
a large attendance of members and friends.
The Chairman announced that, before the ordinary pro¬
ceedings of the evening commenced, it was intended to pre¬
sent a testimonial to their late honorary secretary, Mr. Thomas
Blyton. (Applause.) He would invite Mr. Luxmoore to first
address the meeting on the subject.
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore said—I have been asked to say a few
words this .evening about the presentation of this testimonial;
although many think I do fighting better than complimenting,
this subject is a very agreeable one to speak upon. I have
not been able to attend the meetings of this Association so
often as I could wish, as I live so far off, but I have seen
enough of Mr. Blyton to think him one of the most indefatig¬
able of men with whom I have had to deal with in business
connected with Spiritualism. (Applause.) I think he takes
almost too much trouble, and writes many letters he need not
do, but that is a fault on the right side. All who know any¬
thing about the Dalston Society are aware how much he has
done to establish it, and the fact may be stated without any
disparagement to the other members who have worked with
him, that it is chiefly owing to the exertions of Mr. Blyton
that the Dalston Association has taken the lead of all the
other societies in the metropolitan district. (Applause.) The
members have therefore done well to resolve to present him
with a testimonial as a mark of recognition of what he has
done for Spiritualism in general, and this Association in par¬
ticular. I am sure that he will not look at it merely in its
money value, but that it will be a source of gratification to
him as evidence that his efforts are appreciated. He has not
been free from attacks from those who are not worthy of our
notice ; as we have all had our turn of abuse from that quarter,
no disinterested workers can expect to be quite free ; however,
as we have met here for a harmonious purpose, I will say
nothing further about the attacks of some persons on Mr.
Blyton, I have no doubt that although Mr. Blyton has ceased
to be secretary to this Association, he will do his best to sup¬
port it, and will put his shoulder to the wheel whenever it
requires assistance from him. I have to congratulate all the
members of the society upon the success with which the
efforts of Mr. Blyton have been crowned. (Applause.)
Mr. G. B. Tapp said:—After what has just been uttered
by our kind friend, I have very little to add, and will simply
give an account of my stewardship. When Mr. Blyton resigned
office, it was thought that we must not let him go away from
our midst without some mark of our regard. Many may not
be aware that this Association owes its origin to Mr. Blyton ;
in 1870 he took the first steps towards forming it; since then
he has always been foremost in advancing its interests, and in
placing the best information before us ; he has also done the
routine work of the association, and it has really been a
labour of love to him,—of love to the whole Spiritual move¬
ment, and not exclusively to this society. (Applause.) Even
now he is working night and day in the interests of Spiritualism.
I have been greatly aided by Mrs. Corner, and Mr. T. Wilks,
the late president of the association, in getting up this testi¬
monial. It was a matter of debate what form the testimonial
should take ; a presentation of the same kind has been given
to Mrs. Hardinge, Mr. Peebles, and Mr. Morse ^therefore in
presenting Mr. Blyton with a purse of money, we are follow¬
ing an established precedent, and I may add, a good one,
since many of us are not too rich in this world’s goods.
(Applause.)
Mr. T. Wilks said that he had worked with Mr. Blyton for
three or four years, and had always found him to be energetic
and self-sacrificing.
166
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apkil 3, 1874.
The Chairman then called upon Mrs. Wood to present the
testimonial.
Mrs. Wood said—In the name and on behalf of the mem¬
bers of the Dalston Association, I have much pleasure in pre¬
senting you with this purse, containing twenty guineas.
Mr. T. Blyton said—I thank you in all sincerity for this
unexpected testimonial; I have done my best during the
short time I have been with you, and assure you that my
labours have been poor in my own estimation. My reason
for sending in my resignation was that I thought a wider field
opened before me, giving me scope to do more good for the
cause, in connection with the British National Association of
Spiritualists now in course of formation. I thought that if
there were a Central Association, the movement would be
more consolidated, and the press would have more authority
to fall back upon in making any statements. Since November
last many meetings have been held to forward the work of
national organisation, and the National Association has framed
its rules and brought out its prospectus. In transferring my
affections from the old love to the new, I assure you my
efforts will not be abated, and that I will do the best I can
f or the movement. I hope not to lose sight of the Dalston
Society, but to be with you always; and I feel that Mr.
Greene, your new secretary, will be a more efficient worker
than myself. The success of the Dalston Association has in a
large measure been due to the hearty co-operation of the
Council, and sometimes societies as well as public committees
have their troubles. I again thank you in all sincerity, and
• desire to do so simply and plainly. (Applause.)
The Chairman asked whether anybody else would say a few
words.
Mr. Tapp said—Will some lady speak ? Spiritualists recog¬
nise the equality of ladies with the inferior sex. (Laughter.)
There was silence in the Dalston Association for the space
of one minute.
Mr. Luxmoore then remarked that Mr. Tapp was unfortu¬
nate in not having invited the ladies to speak first.
Mr. Tapp said he did not wish to scare them at the beginning
of the meeting.
Miss E. Kislingbury, one of the honorary secretaries of the
National Association, said that as one of the representatives of
that body, she had much pleasure in welcoming Mr. Blyton as
assistant secretary to the new Association ; what he had done
for the Dalston Society he would no doubt do in his new
capacity, and already he had been working with much energy
and ability. The National Association was about to hold a
public soiree, and she should be glad to see any of the mem¬
bers of the Dalston Society- at it, whether they intended to
join the National Association or not. The new Association
did not wish to alienate anybody from the local societies to
which they belonged, but hoped to see them working with
both. (Applause.)
Mr. Tapp hoped that the Dalston Association would always
maintain friendship with any organisation intended to fur¬
ther the same objects. Mrs. Wood had kindly, quite unasked,
volunteered to make the ornamental purse for Mr. Blyton ; it
was a free gift on her part.
This part of the proceedings closed with a few votes of
thanks, after which there was a seanee at which Miss Showers
kindly sat as medium, some of the usual remarkable voice and
singing manifestations being the result.
The following is the list of subscriptions to the Blyton
Testimonial Fund :—
0. Blackburn, Esq*, £5; G. R. Tapp, Esq., £1 Is.; “A Friend,’’ £1 Is.;
J. 0. Luxmoore, Esq., £1; Mrs. Corner, £1; J. Mclsaak, Esq., £1; G. D.
Peters, Esq., £l; M. Greene, Esq., £1; Mrs. Tebt), 10s. 6d.; R. P. Tred-
wen,Esq., 10s. 6d.; H. M. Dunphy, Esq., 10s.; A. Sulman, Esq., 10s.;
Mrs. 'Wood, 10s.; A. E. Lovell, Esq., 10s!; H. Cook, Esq., 10s.; Mrs. Cook,
10s.; Miss Cook, 10s.; Mrs. Showers, 10s.; G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., 10s.;
T. Wilks, Esq., 5s.; Mrs. Wilks, 5s.; “A Friend,” 5s.; Miss Kislingbury,
5s.; G. Blyton, Esq., 5s.; Mrs. G. Blyton, 5s.; A. Joy, Esq., 6s.; H. Make-
ham, Esq., 5s.; G. F. S., 5s.; S. Gittins, Esq., 5s.; B. W. Pycock, Esq., 5s.;
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 5s.; W. Bassett, Esq,, 5s.; Mrs. Bassett, 5s.; J.
Sparey, Esq., 2s. 6d.; S. H. Hartley, Esq., 2s. 6d.; J. Hobbs, Esq., 2s. 6d.;
J. McCormick, Esq., 2s. 6d.; total, £2113s.
Several trance lectures were delivered last week in New-
castle-on-Tyne, through the mediumship of Mr. J. J. Morse,
of London, the society, for the fifth time, having engaged
Mr. Morse for a course of five meetings. At three of the
meetings subjects were selected by the audience, and at the
remaining two the entire evening was devoted to questions
and answers. The utterances of Mr. Morse’s guides were
well received by good audiences. A social meeting brought
the week’s labour to a close. The speaker is doing much
active service in'the north. Mr. Morse was the guest of the
vice-president of the Newcastle society, Mr. J. Hare.
THE SOIEEE OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
The British National Association of Spiritualists,
now in course of formation, will hold a public soiree on
Thursday, April 16th; many of the leading Spiri¬
tualists in London will be in attendance, and the aims
and uses of national organisation be stated by the
speakers. It will be one of the most important meet¬
ings which has been held in London in connection with
Spiritualism for many years. Further particulars are
given in an advertisement on another page.
Directly the Association is fully formed, and all its
officers elected, we believe that it is the intention of
the Council to call a general public meeting, to which
the admission will be free.
Some of the leading advantages of the Association
are that it will give Spiritualists the power of electing
our own officers by vote by ballot, of managing our own
affairs, of controlling our own expenditure, of com*
manding the attention of the public and the press by
the exercise of that influence which a powerful organi¬
sation always wields, and of furthering the interests of
the movement by the economical administration of the
large income at the command of such an Association.
It will be useful for mutual protection, to influence
legislation, and for many other purposes.
Two dangers might threaten the welfare of the
Association. One is, the introduction of theological
differences, but it is formed on the distinct Understand¬
ing that it shall not interfere with the theological
opinions, and the members are bound in honour not to
intrude their private opinions on those points at its
meetings. If the Association runs into debt, its in¬
fluence will be weakened and its permanency en¬
dangered, so steps should be taken to guarantee to the
members that the Association will live within its in¬
come, whatever that income may be.
The soiree will be held in the Cleveland Hall, and
not at Cannon-street Hotel as previously announced;
the Cleveland Hall is not by any means the most ele¬
gant which might be desired, but there is plenty of
room in it, and can be had for the purpose on moderate
terms.
Mr. S. C. Hall will preside at ih.Q soiree.
Prince Wittgenstein has entered his name and has
been elected as an honorary corresponding member of
the National Association.
Testimonial to Miss Faithfttll.—At one of the meet¬
ings of the Victoria Discussion Society (established by Miss
Faithfull), a testimonial, in recognition of her public services,
was presented to her by the Hon. A. Kinnaird, M.P., who, in a
highly congratulatory speech, in which he spoke of his ac¬
quaintance with Miss Faithfull’s family and his personal
knowledge of her from childhood, made the presentation in
the name of the subscribers, many of whom are well known in
art, science, literature, and philanthropy. Amongst them we
may mention the Earl of Shaftesbury ; Lady Franklin; Lord
Lyttelton; Sir C. Dilke, Bart., M.P. ; Lady Goldsmid; Sir
John Swinburne, Bart.; Sir T. Erskine Perry ; Hon. P. Stan¬
hope ; Mr. Goldsmid, M.P. ; Sir John Bowring ; Lord Talbot
de Malahide ; Eight Hon. Sir H. Storks ; the Governor of the
Bank of England; Mr. Montefiore ; Mrs. Brassey; Mr. Eus-
sell Sturgis; the treasurer (Hon. A. Kinnaird, M.P.); and
other members of the Victoria Discussion Society. The testi¬
monial consisted of a silver tea and coffee service, kettle, and
salvers, of exquisite design, and a magnificent epergne, de¬
signed by Mr. Benson, of Old Bond-street. The scroll, beauti¬
fully illuminated by Mrs. Fleet, on vellum, bears the names
of the subscribers. The inscription on the base of the epergne
is as follows;—“ Presented to Emily Faithfull, for her valuable
services in promoting the industrial and educational interests
of women.”—London Post.
Apkil 3, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
167
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinion
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers,]
SERJEANT COX’S “ WHAT AM I?”
Sir,—In your review of my book, “ What am I ? ” you
complain that I pass without notice phenomena which I must
have witnessed, and which are apparently inexplicable by
the theory of psychic force.
My reason is sufficient. I am engaged in a scientifle inves¬
tigation. I assert nothing as a fact which I have not satis¬
fied myself to be such by experiment and test, which, therefore,
I can offer to others, not merely as my own convictions, but as
being proved by positive evidence that would be accepted in
a court of justice.
The phenomena to which you allude have been witnessed
by me many times, but never under such test conditions as to
give perfect assurance to my own mind, or which I can with
confidence offer to others. The materialised form, for in¬
stance, can only be proved to the satisfaction of any reasonable
mind by some test that should place beyond all question the
fact the medium was in the cabinet while the form was out of
it. There are many simple and sure tests by which this most
important phenomenon might be established beyond possible
doubt. But they are not applied, and when suggested, some
excuse is always given for not trying them ; as, for in¬
stance, a mark made upon the medium’s forehead with a
burnt cork, or some Indian ink; a piece of silk tied round
the waist, and the end held by some person in the circle ; a
hook attached by a thread to the gown, by which it could be
drawn away if taken off ; throwing some red ink over the
spirit hand ; and many others that could not possibly inter¬
fere with the conditions.
With respect to what are called the mental phenomena,
such as speech, writing, and other communication, it is very
difficult to prove that they are not what they appear—the ex¬
pressions of the mind to which the larynx and the head
belong, and which are moved in the process, and nothing less
than clear proof can be accepted for any scientific purpose.
All I assert is that, so far as the facts may be taken as proved
beyond reasonable doubt, there is nothing that may not be
explained by the action of psychic force, that is, the force
which the soul or spirit of the man exercises in the direction
of the bodily organs, but which in certain abnormal con¬
ditions can do without the body, what in the normal con¬
dition of their relationship it can do only through the body.
When I am satisfied by sufficient tests that the other
phenomena, or any of them, are proved to be true, I shall either
endeavour to explain them by my theory of a psychic force, or
frankly admit that some strange intelligence has taken the
direction of that psychic force, or is acting independently
of it. Edward W. Cox.
36, Russell-square, 30th March, 1874.
SPIRIT MESSAGES AND PHYSICS.
Sir,—1 think your correspondent, Fritz, has been too severe
upon the contents of my letter. Upon such matters as I
treated of, the human mind can only arrive at a decision after
a careful balancing of probabilities. I do not know that con¬
vincing reasons can be given in regard to them ; and again,
reasons that appear convincing to one person do not seem so
to another. As to the credibility of the statements of spirits
who act the part of instructors, I can only assert that a long
connection with the spiritual world causes me to believe that
the characters of human beings in the spirit, are much the
same as they were when in the flesh; therefore, that they are
not always perfectly trustworthy. St. John, indeed, implies
this in directing us to “ try the spirits.” I believe also -that in
general they are prohibited from giving any true information
as to the nature of the spiritual world, and that such state¬
ments as they make concerning it, have usually religious
objects in view. His chief objection to my letter rests, how¬
ever, apparently on the fact that it admits the possibility that
there may be perhaps no absolute spiritual immortality ; but
why should there be any such state ? Peter, the spirit who
manifests at Mrs. Shower’s seances, recently said that spirits
require to eat, drink, and sleep. The declaration of some
other spirit, recorded in spiritual literature, was that even
angels could be destroyed by being deprived of sleep. Why
should they not then die from cold or fire ? But arguing from
analogy only, can he give me any reason .why spiritual men
should not kill each other jin the spirit, in the same way as
men kill each other in the flesh ?
Holy Writ says that a certain number of mankind only are
predestined to salvation ; and tells us to fear not man, but
only him who is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.
[I interpret Mm to be the Church.] The statement I made
that heaven is a state or condition, and not a locality, Fritz
will find confirmed by spirits in page 149 of The Spiritualist,
and in connection with it I must say that St. Paul’s declaration
in Hebrews certainly appears to me to be much mote easy to
understand if we believe that the fi general Assembly or
Church of the first-born ” exists upon the surface of our
earth, than if we suppose that the spirits who assist us in
casting off the old Adam and putting on the Lord from heaven
(1 Cor. xv.), who “mortify the works of the flesh and our
earthy members ’’ (XXXIX Articles), have to fly backwards
and forwards, up and down, vast distances, with enormous
velocity. In conclusion, I may as well remind him that in the
Old Testament the Jewish God promises to dwell in the midst
of His people ; he will find also another text to the same effect
in St. John xiv. 23. If what I have said above does not
satisfy Fritz, we must abide by the old saying—Tot homines
tot sententice. P.
TRADE INTERESTS IN SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—Will you please kindly allow me to state, through
your columns, that the advertisements of the British National
Association of Spiritualists have been regularly sent to the
Editor of the Medium and Human Nature, though they have
not appeared in those periodicals.
Algernon Joy, Hon. S«c.
25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, 30th March, 1874.
[Messrs. Beveridge and Co., printers, inform us that when the Spiritualist
was first published weekly, they sent an advertisement to the Medium, and
tendered payment for several insertions, but Mr. Burns refused to print it
on any terms.—Ed.]
SPIRIT FORMS.
Sir,—Unfortunately I was not able to be present when
my communication on Spiritism and Spiritualism was read
before the London Anthropological Society, and perhaps you
will allow me to make a few additional remarks on the
subject through the medium of your journal. The only
criticism advanced at the meeting which requires a reply is
Mr. Lewis’s statement, that “if a medium divided himself
into two, spirits would still seem to be acting upon him,.to
enable him to do so.’’ For my part, however, I see no such
necessity. If man be really a dual being, I can well suppose
that under proper conditions (whatever those conditions may
be), the individual may become separated into himself and his
“ double,” without the aid of spirit agency. There is nothing
improbable, however, in the supposition that the so-called
“ double,” when at death finally and completely separated
from its outer material covering, may continue to act in the
production of some of the phenomena of Spiritualism. Never¬
theless, the more I read on the subject the more convinced
am I that most of these phenomena are dependent solely
on the medium himself. In the last number of The Spiri¬
tualist is reprinted an article by the special commissioner
of the Glasgow Daily News, giving an account of his ex¬
periences with Miss Lottie Fowler. These are most con¬
vincing of the reality of Miss Fowler’s powers, but I see nothing
in them but the exercise of a strongly developed faculty of
clairvoyance and mind-reading, the spirit Annie being merely
the medium’s second self. The only difficulty on this hypothe¬
sis is the apparent presence of the spirit of the clergyman, but
this spirit, certainly, did nothing to aid the medium in her
communications ; and it may have been merely the image
in the enquirer’s own brain, on which the medium, by mistake,
bestowed an actual existence. The evidence of Mrs. Everitt,
also given in the last number of your journal, seems to me to
furnish the key to all such phenomena as that of the appear¬
ance of Katie King. Mrs. Everitt states that, when entranced,
she has seen her own body in a chair, and been struck with
the circumstance ; and she adds, that in the case of such a
temporary separation between the spirit and the body, these
are united by a magnetic cord. We have only to imagine that
when Mrs, Everitt was entranced, her spirit became visible to
the persons at the seance, and we should have the exact phe-.
nomenon produced at Miss Cook’s seances. Moreover, the fact
of the so-called spirit and the body of the medium being
visible at the same time, which has been thought to prove,,
that they are perfectly distinct persons, thus loses its apparent
168
THE SPIRITUALIST
April 3, 1874.
significance. If Mrs. Everitt’s spirit and the body which she
saw belonged to the same person, so may the spirit seen at
Miss Cook’s seances belong to Miss Cook herself; an inference
which is supported by the fact, that when the former disap¬
pears, it is absorbed into Miss Cook’s own organism. The
magnetic cord which Mrs. Everitt refers to as uniting the spirit
and body while these are temporarily separated exists also, so
far as I can judge from the published reports of the seances
between Katie and Miss Cook.
While fully believing that the explanation I have offered
is applicable to many of the phenomena of Spiritualism, I
cannot but admit that some other explanation must, at least
according to our present knowledge, be sought for the re¬
mainder. What this is I do not presume to say. It may or
may not be natural, as distinguished from the popular notion
of the “ supernatural.” The phenomena which my paper en¬
deavoured to explain will afford ample scope for scientific
enquiry for a long time to come, and in my opinion they are
well deserving of study on the part of Anthropologists.
Hull, March 30th, 1874. C. St anil and Wake.
Spiritualism: in St. John’s Wood.—Mrs. Cora L. Y.
Tappan recently delivered an excellent inspirational public
lecture on Spiritualism, at the Assembly Rooms, “ Eyre Arms,”
St. John’s Wood. The meeting was held under the auspices
of the Marylebone Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.
Dr. Sexton presided, and there was a large attendance of
intelligent and apparently well educated listeners. The
questions put to Mrs. Tappan at the close of the lecture
were chiefly of a theological nature. The meeting so nearly
cleared its expenses that the Association will probably be en¬
couraged to convene another, and those residents in the neigh¬
bourhood or elsewhere who desire to aid in so doing, should
communicate with Mr. Arthur Maltby, of Hanover-place,
Regents-park, N.W. Mr. Maltby takes a very active part
in diffusing a knowledge of Spiritualism in that part of
London.
Uncle Shippen on Marriage.—“ What business have
people to marry, and bring into the world a lot of miserable
short-lived children. I don’t care how pretty, and how
plump, and how strong, apparently—I say miserable
children, who will grow up in a lot of short-lived adults.
What right have they to do it, without any regard to the
ultimate regeneration of the human race 1 There ought to be
laws against it; society ought to make laws against it; it
ought’jto be so, and 1 have no doubt that it will be so in time, that
a poor, plain girl, whose grandfathers and grandmothers have
averaged threescore-and-ten all around, will be as much sought
after in matrimony as a scrofulous belle with two or three
millions is now. And what will be the reply of a considerate
father to one of your short-lived young fellows who comes to
demand his consent? ‘ Sir, you have deceived my daughter,
or she would never have referred you to me; you have con¬
cealed the fact from her that you never knew a grandfather
or a grandmother; they all died before you were born. But,
worse, sir, your father was a dyspeptic all his life, and died
of gout in the stomach, as the doctors call it, but a real wear¬
ing out of the apparatus ; and your mother is nearly blind
from senile atrophy affecting the crystalline lens, at fifty. I
make no measurements, sir, but I can see, at a glance, all the
indications are against you ; distance between the parietals,
distance between the nasal sulcus and orifice of the ear ; dis¬
tance of said orifice below a circle cutting the head through
the eyebrows and the occipital protuberance ; circumference
of the chest, combined with length of trunk, showing the
space occupied by the respiratory organs and the chylopoetic
viscera'; all, all, are against you. I am very sorry, sir, but I
cannot give you my daughter. I don’t like your constitution;
it is a deception and a fraud! Morally, that is not your fault,
at least so long as you keep single ; but physically, it is an
insuperable objection. You are, I know, a young man of
excellent character, and at present in apparently vigorous
health ; you have a good social position and an immense
estate, but, sir, all that is as nothing when the question comes
to be looked at in the light of our duties to humanity, and
the obligation that rests upon every one to make any sacrifices
for the physical regeneration and improvement of the human
race. I cannot, sir, give my consent, and I know that my
daughter will fully concur with me, when I explain the
reasons of my decision.’ That’s the way they’ll talk, and until
it comes to that, there is not much hope for any great im¬
provement in society, and progress of all kinds must continue
infinitesimally slow.”—Never Again, by W. S. Mayo, M.D.,
1873.
SPIRITUALISM IN EDINBURGH.
Spiritualism is progressing very favourably in Edinburgh,
the visit of Miss Fowler having been the means of inducing a
good number of people to begin investigating it, but the
Psychological Society is not doing much at present ; the meet¬
ings are not so well attended, and few of the experimental
sub-committees are sitting. The society has just lost the
earthly co-operation of two very useful members, Mr. Keith
and Dr. McFarlane. Mr. Keith was the senior vice-president
and one of the most enthusiastic Spiritualists in Edinburgh.
He had seen a great deal of the phenomena, and he was as
satisfied of the truth of spirit communion as he was of his
own existence, or of that of the external world. He always
advocated the spiritual theory at the meetings of the society,
and it will miss his presence very much, as his kind genial
manner endeared him to all who knew him. He is now en¬
joying the results of his long and well-spent life. Mr. Keith
was an artist of good position, his pictures finding a good
place in the exhibitions of the Royal Scottish Academy and
other artistic corporations.
Dr. McFarlane was an ardent investigator ; he strongly ad¬
vocated the reality of the phenomena. Although he did not
adopt the spiritual theory, yet he was fast coming round in
that direction. He first saw the phenomena when he was Dr.
Clark’s colleague in the Maternity Hospital last year, and was
developed as a physical medium. When he became resident
physician in the Royal Infirmary he introduced the subject
to the other residents. There are eight resident medical
officers in the Infirmary, and one or two of them became de¬
veloped as mediums also. He was a firm believer in the cura¬
tive power of mesmerism, and it is said that it was his inten¬
tion to read a paper to one of the medical societies on a
number of cases of epilepsy treated very successfully by mes¬
merism. He also was much respected. His body was
followed to the grave by some hundreds of medical men and
students.
Mr. Herne is getting powerful and satisfactory physi¬
cal manifestations at Brighton, and the local daily papers
are giving very fair reports of the seances.
A post card has reached us from Mr. Blyton with the
following mysterious announcement on the back;—“ 10.50
p.m.—30-3-74—Daughter ! All well!” This appears to
relate to one of those events usually published in newspapers
under the heading “ Births.” Still, there is nearly as much
brevity in the announcement as in the Quaker correspondence,
Where the father sent a sheet of paper with a “ ?” only on it,
meaning “ Have you any news ?” and the son in reply sent a
blank piece of paper signifying “No.”
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Rooks not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E, J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
N ewcastle-on-Tyne.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. —Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.O,
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg : his life and
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM! WHITE. Wherein the History the
Doctrines and the other-world Experinces of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by O. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm, IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co. 
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847, AAEON FRANKLIN, 100, Suf-
folk-street, Birmingham.
April 3, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIB.VOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can he consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to S. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, “ Crown Hotel,” George-square, Glasgow, Scotland.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bema^d-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Oampden-hill, Kensington.
MR. CHARLES E.. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush,
W. Please write.
DR. JOHN HUNTER and DR. MESMER may be
consulted upon all forms of illness, through MR. ROBERT HARPER,
from whom Mesmeric Treatment and Eclectic Medicines may be obtained,
at 114, Wardour-street, Oxford-street, W. Fees, 10s, and upwards. Hours,
one to five o’clock daily.
RS. EMPSON, Medical Clairvoyant and Mag¬
netic Healer, undertakes the Diagnosis and the Cure of Diseases
(if curable). Patients at a distance may obtain diagnosis and advice by
sending magnetic link and fee of 10s. Address, 114, Wardour-street,
Oxford-street, W. Hours, one to five o’clock daily.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford, Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Buoolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Patemoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Yirgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misuuderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”—Standard,
April 1th, 1868.
“There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’ —London Review, Feb. 15th, 1868.
“The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off."—Daily News,
March Zd, 1868.
“ Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Connington’s translation of the iEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator March 1th, 1868.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt's Letter on the British National Association
op Spiritualists. By Aloernon Joy (“Iota.”) Printed and published
by T. Scott, 1, Warwick-court, Holborn. Price One Penny.
JOHN BRAY,'
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82, St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery.
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
■ Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. t The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
Works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul,
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions,
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth, reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflectiv readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—/Somerset Gazette.
London:' Lonqman-and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just published,
The second yolume of “what am i m
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of. Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Ofthe Intelligent Motive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health..
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VL History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VIII. Supersensuous Percep
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
. Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
London: Longman & Co., Patemoster-row.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. To,be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 3, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.GLS., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.E.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. VJ. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Queleh, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; 0. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Yolckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.E.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously.avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  j  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacn other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,"
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations aro bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STEELING.
Read Ojfto.-BEOWN STREET AND MABSDEN STEEET, MANCHESTER
FIEE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Eeturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made uppn the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Benewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STEEET, LONDON, E.O.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c.,#effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FBANCIS RAYENSCEOFT, Manager.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PBACTICAL BOOKBINDEE, STATIONEE, BOOKSELLEE, LETTER-
* PRESS, COPPEE-PLATE, AND LITHOGBAPHIC PEINTEE,
ENGBAVEE, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Newspaper.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDBESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large sSte, 3s.; small size, Is.
TO OWNEES OF HOUSE FROPdSffiTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGRSTj
11, PABK GEOVE, SHEPHEED’S LANE, RBIXTON,
TI> ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
JLYi House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Bfixton
Bead, and near the Bailway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TEBBY, 96, Bussell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVEB PLACE, PAEK BOAD, BEGENT’S PABK.
Established 1833,
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London, E.O.
