AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[BEGISTEKED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 152.—(Vol. VII.—No. 4.) LONDON: JULY 23j 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
Contents.
27ie Newspaper... ...   ...   ... 37
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris:—Seances with Mr. Firman
before his Imprisonment—The Conditions Influencing Spiritual
Manifestations—Apparent Passage of Matter through Matter under
Novel Conditions—Spirit-Lights—Spirits and their Mediums seen
Together—Interesting Manifestations by Materialised Spirits—Ex¬
traordinary Manifestations—The Imprisonment of Mr. Firman-
Experiences of the Comte de Bullet  ... 38
Powerful Spiritual Manifestations on board H.M.S. Monarch  43
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the Council—
New Members—Election of President—Finance Committee's Re¬
port—The Public Funds of Spiritualists—Workers in Spiritualism
—Mr. Morse’s Reception—Alliance with Foreign Spiritual Organi¬
sations — Constitution and Rules — Subscription Seances— The
Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris—Miscellaneous Business—
The Annual National Conference of Spiritualists    44
Alleged Insanity of Mr. Robert Dale Owen ... ... ...   47
Kardee's Spirit Book         47
National Organisation of Spiritualists    48
Valuable Presents to the Spiritual Movement .-.  48
Paragraphs:—Sunday Lectures in Cavendish Rooms, 43; Spiritualism
in Birmingham, 43; The Cost of a Spiritual Institution, 48; Spirit¬
ualism in Leicester, 46; American Spiritualists in Loudon, 47;
Spiritualism in Dalston, 47; Brixton Psychological Society, 47;
Mr, Morse in America, 48; Spiritualism in Portsmouth  48
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Fora per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT'S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
Psychopathic and magnetic institute
for the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR DISEASES,
1, Dunkeld-street, opposite Emmanuel Church, West Derbj-road, Liver¬
pool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms per arrange¬
ment. J. Coates, Principal. Mesmeric Seances every Tuesday evening at 8.
Admission Is. course of private instruction:—How to Mesmerise; to
obtain Biological Phenomena; procure Sleep; induce Somnambulism, &c.
Fee £1 Is.
WORKS BY THOMAS LAKE HARRIS.
THE GREAT REPUBLIC: a Poem of the Sun. 6s.
THE BREATH OF GOD WITH MAN. Is. 6d.
ARCANA OF CHRISTIANITY; The Apocalypse. Vol. I. 6s. 6d.
THE MILLENNIAL AGE. 2s. 6d.
LONDON * SERIES 0 F SERMONS. Is.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five thillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-,
street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application:
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the sum of £20 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject
The probable effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition of Society.
Second Prize, £10.
The competition is open to all British born or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
The essays to be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875. to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C., of
whom further particulars can be had on application.
Will be published in a few days.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
BY ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackwell.
Price 7s. 6d. Postage 3d.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, GreatRussell-street, London, W.O
Wholesale and Retail by John Thomson, 39, John-st^eet, Glasgow.
Sold also by MRS. Connor, 15, Fairclough-lane, Liverpool.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS', HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Lately Published, Crown 8vo., Price 3s. 6d.,
SON, REMEMBER; An Essay on the Discipline of the
Soul beyond the Grave. By the Rev. John Paul, Rector of St.
Alban's, Worcester.
“ Such a work will he warmly welcomed by all Spiritualists, and espe¬
cially by those who seek and find in Spiritualism a firm basis for moral
and religious teaching.”—Spiritualist, March 25th 1875.
Published by H. K. Lewis, 136, Gower-street, London.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 23, 1875.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Oalder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fiiz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Oambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21. Green-street Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.L)., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.O.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood. Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry 1)., M.R.I. Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.O.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Finchley-road, 'N. W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House Belper.
Aimfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1. King Ed ward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Ohinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Oolle',Rev. Thos.. 11, Belle Vue terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newtou, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Oampden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-s'reet, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fi|tz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-tierald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckhim Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thus., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde. Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys. H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Oapt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E.. 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawsoa, Wm. Brvham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.O.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., "Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Noswortby, Mrs.. 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C. T., M.R.C.S., 19,Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk. N.W.
Pearce, Richard, Percy-cottage, Pellatt-grove, Wood-green, N.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-piace Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Oamden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-latie, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Oentral-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G, N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood,
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. ft., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.O.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S. W., an i 3, Alien burg-terrace, Olapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1. The Elms, 1st. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withal], H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs,, Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq. , 38, Grekt Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.1.1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
Pacha Ahmed Rassim, Khande Rassim Pacha, h Bahdjc Capousson, Con¬
stantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.’
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, '26, Avenue des Ohamps-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ohamps-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammontou, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anua Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 356, West Thirty-second-street, New York,
U.S.A
A. J. Riko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
C. Constant, Esq., Hotel St. Marc, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russoll-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor O. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 2.985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634 Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 11, Rue d’Anieres; Paris.
Rev. Samu»l Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq, 9, Monrgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chauss&e St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Allied Society.
  The Liverpool Psychological Society. 
MU. C. E. WILLIAMS, Professional Medium, is at
present on the Continent. Letters addressed to him at 61, Lambs’
Conduit-street, Holborn, London, will be forwarded.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.O.
PROFESSOR REGAN, ELECTRO-MAGNETIC
HEALER, is now open to give treatment to Patients at his resi¬
dence, or their own, by appointment. ‘ Fee, One Guinea. Address 59, Fin-
boro’-road, Retcliffe-gardens, South Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W, To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. RBGibTBE your Letts;as.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon ‘as engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
lO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Mrs. oliye, spirit medium, 49, belmont-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative Mesmerism (30 Years Established), attends patients
daily J from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter*.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman,
Price Threepence. To beh ad of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
nd all Australian Booksellers.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Oathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium, Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
_l_\l fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
PARIS:—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
eJAs
eJAs
% xr| yrugrm nnt tx\
VOJjUJVIE £EVEJ\f. j^UJVlBEF? fOUF(.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 23rd, 1873.
SpiriltraltsI Ibtosppr.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS:—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
han a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Bussell-street, London; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by, the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
communications for the Literary Department should be addressed to the
Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Kussell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
Any delay or irregulamty in the supply of '•'•The Spintualist1' in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
TO SUBSCRIBERS in foreign countries.
The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the branch office of
Mr. J. Selwood, 88, Gieat Eussell-street, London, W.O., by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s;, which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PBIOE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN .1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection wiih their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Mr. H. G. Atkinson,
F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S); Sir Charles 1st am, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Ohurch,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay ("Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Sony wood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason : Mr. N. Fabyan Dawa;
Herr Christian Reimers; Mr. Wm. White (author of the Life of Swedenborg);
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, S. 0. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. JeijCken, M.R.I., Barris-
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr. 0.
Constant (Smvrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Price 3s.
London Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE SPIRITUALIST NEWSPAPER.
As the traveller, in ascending a steep hill, pauses
occasionally to see what progress he has made, and to
survey the path left behind, so is it interesting on
the present occasion, when a fresh volume of The
Spiritualist has just been begun, to take a short survey
of the past. Ever since The Spiritualist newspaper
was started, in the year 1869, it has held its ground
as the oldest and chief journal connected with the
movement, and has never ceased to increase in circula¬
tion. From the first it has been the recognised org^n
of the educated and scientific Spiritualists of this
country, and of late years its foreign circulation has
made very great progress, so that English-speaking
Spiritualists in all the nations of Europe, now use this
journal as their organ of communication. For a time
its flow to America was checked, because the sending of
boxes of Spiritualistic literature to that country was in
the hands of a trade monopoly. The Spiritualist was
consequently excluded from the parcels—just as, for a
long time, orders sent to the same quarter from different
parts of England by the Liverpool Psychological Society
and others, were refused to he executed. Some six
months ago we first began to take the trouble to break
through the trade artificial impediments which retarded
the flow of this journal to America, so that it has begun
to make headway there, and at the present time The
Spiritualist, practically speaking, reaches all the edu*
cated and intelligent Spiritualists to be found wherever
the English language is spoken, a few in the United
States temporarily excepted.
This is no slight result when it is considered that
for the last six years the public funds of Spiritualists,
to the extent of thousands upon thousands of pounds,
have been used without the knowledge of the donors in
most desperate attempts to extinguish The Spiritualist
by underselling. Had it not been for the injury thus
inflicted upon it by the unequal distribution of the
public funds, it would have been self-supporting and
enlarged in size long ago, but Spiritualists at large
have unknowingly and unintentionally prevented this.
The money which has done us so much injury was for
the most part subscribed by our personal friends and
by the warm supporters of this journal, in response to
incessant demands, the donors not knowing the effect of
the method of expenditure. We preferred to keep
silence, and to pay out the expenses inflicted, rather
than to make the injury and injustice matters of con¬
tention and inharmony.
A thousand halfpence equal a little more than £2;
hence, if & journal with a circulation say of 4,000,
injures its neighbour by reducing its price by one half¬
penny per copy, that involves a loss of .£8 per week, or
£400 odd a year. Somebody of course has to pay this,
and in the case now under notice the expense has been
shifted on to the back of the Spiritual movement for
six years. The persons who thus get a journal under
its natural price do not want the aid; poor Spiritualists
38
THE SPIRITUALIST.
are too independent to desire to receive a halfpenny per
week out of charity.
The Spiritualist was first started in the year 1869,
at a time when there was no newspaper in the move¬
ment—nothing hut monthly periodicals devoted to
magazine literature; regular shorthand or other reports
of meetings were altogether unknown. In the April of
the following year, 1870, the first number of the
Medium newspaper was published, and it connected
with itself the name of Daybreak, a little monthly
sheet previously devoted to religious and Spiritualistic
essays of a magazine character.
The following are extracts from the first leading
article in the first number of The Spiritualist, and it is
for the public to say whether the promises therein
made have been fulfilled by thejwork actually^done :—
“ Spiritualism in England has long been represented by
three periodicals, all published monthly, namely, The Spiritual
Magazine, Human Nature, and Daybreak. The Spiritual
Magazine was first published in January, 1860, Human Nature
in April, 1867, and Daybreak in Jane, 1868. The Spiritualist,
issued for the first time this day, is not started for the purpose
of competing with the three journals just mentioned, but is
intended to occupy new ground, and to meet a want as yet
unsupplied. At the Gower-street Conference last winter
several of the speakers mentioned the want of reports and
records of public meetings connected with Spiritualism, and
one chief object of this new journal is to chronicle the pro¬
ceedings of such assemblies. Another feature of The Spirit¬
ualist will be its scientific character. ... At first this journal
will be published fortnightly, to “ feel the ground,” before its
transformation into a weekly paper; a step which, together
with other improvements, is likely to be taken before long,
should all go well. Much care will be taken to make The
Spiritualist useful to the pioneers of the greatest movement of
modern times, so it is hoped that it will meet with a friendly
reception from all engaged in the noble work of strengthening
the chain of communication between this world and the spirit-
land, and of clearing away the mystery which ignorance
throws over the life beyond the grave.”
Looking at the results wbieh have been achieved
since the above sentences were written, there is every
cause to be thankful; the said results furnish evidence
that something more than money is required to make a
successful journal, otherwise the two or three thousand
pounds of the supporters of this journal, which have
been used for six years without their knowledge in the
effort to extinguish it, would have blotted it out of
existence long ago, but The Spiritualist has been
piloted through all the opposition; and the expenses
continuously inflicted upon it for six years by the
public funds of Spiritualists have been paid, although
the enforced sacrifices have been of no trifling nature.
THE PERSECUTION OF SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
SEANCES WITH MR. FIRMAN BEFORE HIS IMPRISONMENT.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—I continue the journalised account of these Firman
seances, my last having included July 10th.
THE CONDITIONS INFLUENCING- SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
July 11th.—11.30 p.m.—Just returned from another seance
with Gomte de Bullet alone, and Mr. and Mrs. Firman—a
seance beautiful in all its details, and splendid as a success,
and yet prompting the exasperating thought that all this came
only to us who needed no further evidence, while to M. Car-
raby and his friends, whom we were all so anxious to convince,
nothing scientifically satisfactory has been as yet exhibited
—nothing but either failure or imperfect success,—and the
constant regret that they, and the Procureur de la Republique,
and the Judges, whether robed in black or in red, were not
there to see what we were witnessing with such a beautiful
profusion of manifestation. And yet not alone, we and Fir¬
man, but the very spirits themselves, according to their own
declarations, had been also desirous that they should see, so as
July 23, 1875.
to be able to testify, and to act in his favour. On what con¬
ditions does it depend ? If we could but know, so as to be
able to command or regulate them ! Setting aside the atmo¬
spheric conditions, such as the electric storm of last Wednes¬
day, it seems to me that there are two principal causes which
have militated against our wishes, viz.:—
1. Spirits (especially, perhaps, those timid and shrinking
young girl spirits) seem to need to become gradually familiar
with the spectators-r-to enter into sympathy, to acquire con¬
fidence, with them—to come to feel sure that they will not be
exposed to a violation of the conditions, nor be met with a
repulsive, hostile, ridiculising temper of mind. It seems that
the more an individual, or a small circle, persists continuously
in a course of seances, the better and the stronger and the
surer become the manifestations obtained by them. See how
gradually progressive were the successes obtained, and scien¬
tifically tested, and recorded by Mr. Crookes, with the spirit
called “Katie King,” or “Annie Morgan,” through the
mediumship of Miss Florence Cook. How different the
results finally obtained by Mr. Crookes, after the slow
building up of familiarity and confidence, not to say
affection, from what he could obtain when he was
only an abstract scientific investigator — candid, right-
minded, well-meaning, indeed, but still not yet fully in
the confidence of the medium. And look at Comte de Bullet,
never now' failing to get beautiful manifestations from some or
others of a group of spirits well known to him now in their pre¬
sent life, as they had been before in that of the flesh (he has seen
as many as nine of them at one seance, through Firman’s me¬
diumship, all walking forth out of the cabinet, in one case
three at a time), whereas it had begun with him with slow and
doubtful gropings in the dark, many a failure, redeemed by
only partial, while encouraging, successes, half repelling, half
leading him on. Look at the case of his Russian friend, a
man of rank and wealth—who came to Paris expressly for
this object, on the encouragement of Bullet’s letters—who
spent a month in persistent trials, constantly discouraged,
often to despair and disgust, but who was at last rewarded
with the supreme happiness of receiving the clear and full
materialisation of a deeply beloved sister, when a strong, tall,
bearded man burst into tears, as brother and sister kissed and
embraced each other again, after many years of separation to
the senses, though never to the souls. (That sister, the
Alexandrine of my last letter, I have seen this evening.)
Consider, too, how the manifestations of these spirit-friends
of Bullet’s, with me present as a spectator and close observer,
seem to improve as acquaintance, confidence, sympathy grow
with successive seances. And yet with M. Carraby and his
friends (the best of people, yet strangers to those delicate and
timid girl-spirits), notwithstanding every effort, and the most
earnest desires and entreaties from Bullet himself, we have as
yet had nothing, I repeat, but either failure or only partial
and unsatisfactory success. And so M. Carraby remains in¬
credulous, because ignorant of these facts in regard to which
seeing alone is believing, after having kindly yielded to the
request of his ex-client to be allowed to show him. It is clear
that this is one of the essential elements of the question,
namely, familiarity, confidence, and sympathy, which must be
first and gradually established between the spectator and the
spirits present, unseen, or established, at least with those of
the refined order with which it seems we are now dealing.
[I may remark, in passing, that Mathilde, Carmita, and Alex¬
andrine are probably a very different fashion of persons now,
as in the flesh, from your great, strong, bold John Kings or
ex-pirate Morgans (I mean him no disrespect, since he seems
to have grown into a good spirit enough in the course of about
a couple of centuries of spirit-life), who seem to be not less
ready to face a roomful of strangers at Williams’s, in London,
than once to defy the battle and the breeze in the prosecution
of a profession which was not quite so disreputable then as
now—it being no longer the fashion for gallant and even noble
English adventurers to buccaneer patriotically against the
galleons and colonies of Spain. Some of your readers may do
well to remember this historical discrimination when they talk
of (or to) the now again famous “ pirate,” who had at least
that handle of “ Sir ” to his name which is some title to
British consideration, and whose daughter certainly flies fair
and sweet colours on Mr. Crookes’s pages, even if her sire did
possibly once fly what was equivalent to a black flag in the
waters of the Spanish Main. But as this is a sort of aside, I
put it in brackets.]
2. The mental, nervous, psychic condition of the medium
(call it what you will) seems to be another of the essential
elements for these marvellous manifestations. I am told by those
THE SPIRITUALIST.
39
July 23, 1875.
who knew Firman before I did that at times none would occur,
because he, the medium, was disturbed in health—he had a
stomach-ache, forsooth ! He must be in a tranquil, comfort¬
able, normal state. His part is simply passive. He is un¬
conscious in his semi-cataleptic or somnambulic sleep, which
is called “trance.” If at any seance he cannot go into this
abnormal sleep, or can go into it only in an imperfect
degree, there will be little or no manifestation. On what all
this depends, who shall tell us ? What influence may pro¬
mote, what prevent or impede, his passing into this indispens¬
able condition, who shall make us understand? Darkness,
just as in the photographer’s developing den, seems to be one
of the necessary conditions of this mysterious psychic, vital,
nervous chemistry, through which the spirits seem to be able to
act. Firman, we have seen, has to pin black muslin over all the
whiteness of the lining of the curtains of his bed, which has to
serve him for a cabinet. This evening, on account of the
heat, he took off his coat (a grey one), which was oppressive,
and was about to go into it, with the upper half of his body
presenting the broad expanse of whiteness of his shirt and
sleeves, but on reflection he recognised that that would not do,
and he put on a thin black coat, because the light entering at
the lozenge-shaped window in the curtain, even from the
half-light outside, would probably make too much light inside
to permit the spirits to “materialise.” Darkness inside the
cabinet seems certainly to be one of the necessary conditions,
in the present stage of the ability of the spirits (though Col.
Olcott’s book holds out the prospect that on Sunday, Sept.
19th, 1875, they expect to be able to materialise in full light
on the open platform, in the midst of spectators, whom they
will then and there address). (Wows verrons, let us “ make a
note of it.”) But the medium’s own tranquil and comfortable
condition of mind and body seems certainly to be another
not less (perhaps still more) essential element. Now, Firman,
in regard to his seances with M. Carraby and his friends,
is entirely out of that condition. He understands his fate to
depend largely on the result. He is over-anxious, over-excited,
over-nervous, over-what you please. His wife we have twice
observed to be all in a tremble. He does not get asleep, or
more than half asleep. This cause operating on him—or
this cause cumulated with the one suggested above as operat¬
ing on the spirits themselves—perhaps explains why we have
thus far succeeded so little with and for M. Carraby and
his friends, whqse kind patience has been so little rewarded—
why we get from the cabinet, after our failures, the words “ no
power”—while on the same day, at another hour, Bullet
alone, or Bullet with me as another witness, have got some
startling and beautiful results. Put this and that together,
the two causes above indicated—the one affecting the spirits,
the other the medium—and both combining to prevent the
result desired alike by all—medium, spectators, and spirits;
and you will probably have the explanation of our failures for
M. Carraby, side by side, within the same twenty-four hours,
with our signal successes by ourselves. I am at least as cool,
and close, and sharp an observer as any of them, keeping
strict watch and ward over imagination, illusion, or delusion;
and whatever I state as a fact is a fact, so far as I state it;
and my readiness to testify under oath may be understood as
accompanying all these letters.
Pardon this dissertation upon conjectured reasons for a fact
so perplexing and vexatious, and everyway so regrettable, into
which I have been led as a sort of preface to what I now pro¬
ceed to relate about the seance from which I have just returned.
I have before said that in these mysterious matters the failures
are not less instructive than the successes. We must take
them together, and harmonise them as best we may; and
that is what I have been attempting—I hope not to the too
great waste of your space or exhaustion of your readers’
patience. Let us come now to the facts, which I repeat that
I like and swear by as much as a great poet “ hated ” and
scoffed at them.
APPARENT PASSAGE OF MATTER THROUGH MATTER UNDER NOVEL
CONDITIONS—SPIRIT-LIGHTS.
July 12$.—My recollection is no less clear this morning
than it was last night of what I had just returned from wit¬
nessing. I shall not give needless details of how things suc¬
ceeded each other. It will suffice to state in a more summary
way the phenomena which did present themselves.
A dark seance, as usual, was first held, Firman being seated
at the table with us, where he again got half asleep. Test
cbnditions established as before. A small musical box was
brought by the Comte, about 4 or 5 inches long by 2£ deep
(this being according to request given him in the morning by
the spirits). We promptly heard plenty of raps. Then we
heard the musical box being wound up, and start playing. In
the course of the evening it was thus wound up at least a
dozen times, and was floated about the room abundantly,
playing all the time. At times the sound would become
strangely faint, as if it were muffled, much more faint than
could be caused by its being at the farthest corner of the ceil¬
ing—just audible and no more. I expressed a wondering
question whether it might have been passed through the
partition wall or the door, and was heard from the other side
—all but not heard. It must have been either that or its being
wrapped round in the folds of the curtain, or something else
unknown to me. It was once carried through the top of the
table, the under-side of which was strongly rapped by it.
The Comte remarked that it had been carried through it.
Sceptical 1, who must always have proof, observed that it
must have been carried under by the same hand which had
been floating it about, not through, but round the edge of the
table. “ No,” was instantly rapped from beneath. “ Do
you mean that it was carried through and not round?”
“ Yes,” strongly. “ Well, please bring it up again.” Audit
was instantly again on the top, sounding of course much
louder on it as a sounding-board than it had done when below
and held by a hand in the air. At one time, while the box
was floating about, Bullet asked if they could not make it
visible to us as it moved. I fancied that they might then
make it phosphorescent, or somehow luminous. But it was
not so; and yet the request was complied with. A spirit
light was indeed formed, of irregular shape, and the box was
moved to and fro and up and down in front of it, showing its
black oblong outlines perfectly against the light, somewhat
like the moon passing blackly over the suntin an eclipse.
Another thing about the box. While it was floating about,
our heads being occasionally touched with it, I asked to have
it laid on the top of my head, and left to play there. There
was not instant compliance, but after a few minutes precisely
that thing was done—as also to the Comte. At one time
again, while the box was floating about overhead, sometimes
slowly, sometimes swiftly, and a hand at the same time playing
about my face, I asked, “ Oh! bring your hand to my lips and
let me kiss it.” Instead of that, the hand, or another hand,
brought the box to my lips, and pressed it several times upon
them, as though to say, playfully, “ No, not my hand ; but
there, kiss that if you like.” I took it in good part, and a little
later did not go unrewarded. Not only was there at various
>times in the course of the seance a cordial shaking of my hand,
and a good deal of patting of my head and face, regular
caressing and playing with the flocks of my hair, a parting of
them, and pulling them down over my forehead, all by very
soft and gentle fingers, but at one time when they were playing
over my face they moved down, and did rest upon my lips
quite long enough for me to prefer them decidedly to the cold,
hard polish of a musical box. A thing that occurred to me
several times was the having the cuff of my coat-sleeve taken
hold of and drawn upward (my hand still holding Mr. Firman’s,
as always the case throughout, so as not to “ break the chain ”),
until we were both drawn up to our feet and our arms raised
up to their utmost height—the hand above still drawing us
upward till I was about to get up on my chair—and then the
same hand would push my hand downward again back to the
table. This also occurred to the Comte.
Spirit-lights showed a good deal, sometimes gleams, some¬
times in greater size and duration. There was chiefly one, not
vertical as before, but of an irregular crescent shape. We
again had, as on the former occasion, the phenomenon of the
spirit which bore it descending through the table, as shown by
the light sinking down and finally disappearing through it,
and again emerging through it and rising to its former level.
This was twice done. When the spirit was underneath, it
rapped strongly on the underside. We asked earnestly for a
repetition of the phenomenon which had been twice seen by the
Comte, of the table-top being vaporised into transparency, so
as to show the spirit underneath as we looked down from
above; but it did not take place, though they had said that
they would try to do it. The lights would float about the
room, as before. As before, the door was locked and the key
in my possession, and the hands of Mr. and Mrs. Firman
securely imprisoned in ours. We several times remarked to
the spirits that they were in excellent force to night, to which
they would rap assent, and at once proceed to do something
else. We heard Frank’s little voice, but there was nothing
worth notice in the little he said.
Before we got through, a pushing of the table denoted the
presence of another spirit—for these never do that. When
40
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 23, 1875.
asked who it was, the reply (by alphabet) was H-u-e-r-t-a.
“ Ah, my old friend, I am very glad to meet you again,” said
the Comte, who explained to me that he was an old man, and
an old musician with whom he had been familiar. He shook
hands with the Comte, who begged him also to do the same
with me. This was presently done, with cordiality, and my head
was raised up again as high as I (on my feet) could stretch my
arm towards the ceiling, by a man’s hand this time, not by
the coat-sleeve as before. The Comte hoped he would be able
to show himself at the light seance. “Yes ” was answered.
But he did not. The Comte told me that he had but little
power, and had never been able to make himself visible.
SPIRITS AND THEIR MEDIUMS SEEN TOGETHER.
Omitting minor matters, I have here given you the substance
of this dark seance. The cabinet was at last asked for.
Firman took his place in an arm-chair placed on the bed.
The curtain was drawn upon him, and we had not long to wait.
I will cut short the account of this light seance. The
curtain was frequently drawn aside, and there was Firman,
always visible seated asleep in his arm-chair in the middle,
and one or another, and sometimes two, of the girl spirits in
their white gauze-like drapery visible by his side, behind, or
partially in front of him.*
INTERESTING MANIFESTATIONS BY MATERIALISE!)- SPIRITS. §
The spirit playing the most conspicuous part was Alex¬
andrine, the sister of the Comte’s Russian friend. Her features
and expression were entirely different from those of Mathilde
and little Carmita. It was curious that they did not seem to
be always quite the same, while yet always substantially the
same. It was the same face, with the same sweet, kindly, and
bright expression, but less pretty on some occasions than at
other times, just as such variations appear on living human
faces. At one time her features seemed to be more finely
drawn, at others less sharply defined, as though less perfectly
materialised, a little more vague, a little swollen as it were,
yet with the identity always unmistakable. She would come
forward into the clear light (a half-light, yet quite sufficient
for very distinct sight) and again recede, and presently again
come forward anc^ recede, and so on, as though having to
retire to gather power. Three times she came forth outside of
the window in the curtain, and rose upward, drawing her
drapery after her. Once, after she had done this, Mr. Firman
observed that she had raised her head up to the ceiling. I
questioned whether she had quite reached the ceiling. She
presently came forth again, and this time unmistakably did
touch it, remaining there a few seconds. Her forehead bore a
golden circlet, or what seemed such. Long dark hair hung
down on both sides. Above her forehead, like a jewel stuck
in the hair, a little on the right, was a curious round gleam,
that looked less like a gem than like a piece of coloured light
or fire (dark yellowish). A stone emits varying flashes ; this
was a steady and pervading glow. Bullet told me that that
was her “ order.” I have seen the same, in the same position,
on the head of Mathilde—not on that of the little Carmita.
What it is or means I do not know. Bullet seemed to be
acquainted with this “ order,” but has not explained it to me
further, according to whatever knowledge about it may have
been imparted to him. At times she would thrust forward a
good deal of her gauze-like drapery, which would come evolv¬
ing billowing or forward of itself, so to speak. Once nothing
appeared but this drapery, coming forward out of the lozenge
window, and descending nearly to the floor, and then again drawn
up and back into the cabinet—no face nor hands appearing.
She would sometimes show her face, as above described, at the
window, and then again down at the side, the curtain being
drawn aside from within so as to show the sleeping medium
in his chair; and then again it would be dropped, and she
would presently reappear at the window. At one time the
following occurred. She was looking straight forward down
upon us from the window, with a particularly kind and benig¬
nant expression. I exclaimed—“ See how affectionate she
looks; she is evidently overflowing with affection. I am sure
we return it to her.” The smile on her face brightened still
more, and she brought forward her fingers to her lips, and
wafted kisses to us. At another time the two faces, of herself
and Carmita, appeared together, and presently turned towards
each other, approached, and kissed each other several times,
with the pretty music of that pleasant performance. Of
course when the curtain was down and they appeared only at
the window, Firman was not in view, but every time (and it
_ * "Was Mr. Firman’s face clearly seen ? To make good evidence the
living features of medium and spirits should be seen at the same time.—Ed.
was full a dozen times) that they drew aside the curtain, now
on the right side and now on the left, there was Firman seated
in his trance, his head thrown rather back. We saw him thus
several times, and with the two girls by his side, sometimes
both on the same side, sometimes one on the right, the other
on the left.
One thing was evident, only the upper part of their bodies
was materialised, down to and including the arms, below being
gauze-like white drapery, sometimes straight and abundant, so
as to present the appearance of a form in full stature, but at
other times thin and shadowy; once this slight drapery was
bent backward below the bust—as might be the case if the
solid bust were moved forward against an opposite wind—so
as to make it perfectly unequivocal that there was nothing more
of her there than the head and bust, and as though it were
meant to make that plain to our eyes. In my letter published
by you on the 9 th I spoke of them as having seemed to sit upon
Firman as he lay, for it is only recently that he has taken to
an arm chair placed on the bed. I now think that that ap¬
pearance was produced by the cause just stated—that they
were then, as now, only materialised to the bust, and were in
the air over him, their drapery partly covering him. When
Mathilde on that occasion showed a pretty little foot (in com¬
pliance with Bullet’s request), protruding it out of a cloud of
drapery and shaking it, the first alone was, probably, specially
materialised ad hoc. At this seance,! repeat,there was mani¬
festly nothing of them belotv the bust.*
It is needless to give further particulars of this seance.
Mathilde—the most beautiful in face of the three—did not
appear. We were afterwards told that she could not show
herself, being occupied in helping the others.
The signal of all being over was their “ Good-bye, good-bye,”
spoken behind the curtain (in English this time), with a faint
voice, which I had to strain my ear to catch. Some phrases of
affection were interchanged with Bullet; again, “ Good-bye—
good-night.”
July There was a seance the day before yesterday
morning, at which were present, besides the Comte and myself,
the Comtesse de Bullet and two persons of the company which
had before witnessed at M. Carraby’s nothing but the lament¬
able failures above related. We were, of course, extremely
solicitous that the latter two should have a good seance, with a
view to the report of it reaching M. Carraby, at least at second
hand, through his own intimate friends. The force was not
indeed strong nor the manifestations many, but enough was
shown to constitute what I think ought to have been regarded
as satisfactory and sufficient, though we have so much expe¬
rience to the effect that repeated and often repeated success is
required to produce a decisive effect upon distrustful incredu¬
lity. There was evidently difficulty in materialising. We
would at first for some time see formless white forms rise to
the window, with vague outlines of a head, which would pre¬
sently sink back again; no features distinguishable, and no
coming forward to the full light. In answer to questions and
pressing we were told, by the alphabet, that they were trying.
At last a head did come forward to the window, but veiled with
white gauze—probably unable to face the light, or unwilling to
show imperfectly-formed features. It presently came down to
an opening drawn at one side, of the curtain, still veiled, not¬
withstanding the Comte’s protest against the veil. After a
time, however, it did come forward without the veil—Carmita.
Of the two strangers the one could see plainly; the other, unfor¬
tunately, was near-sighted, and had forgotten to bring a lorgnon.
Carmita then reappeared several times, and Firman, asleep in
the chair, was plainly visible behind her. There also appeared
distinctly at the window the two faces of the two sisters, Mathilde
and Carmita, who presently turned to each other, approached,
joined their lips, and the sweet familiar little sound was heard,
not loud, but unequivocal. The one of the two strangers
“ thought ” she saw the motion of the lips. I did not, having
at the moment turned my eyes a little off in bending my best
ear forward to hear the sound that promised to come. Of
course the near-sighted stranger could not. At the dark
seance there was not very much. No lights appeared,'only
the musical box floated and played overhead, and all present
had their hands touched. Remember that the “ chain ” of
hands in contact with each other on the table all round was
always maintained. All this constituted what I have above said
I thought ought to have been regarded as satisfactory and
sufficient—the essential point having been there of simulta¬
neous viiw of the sleeping medium and of the white-draped
* Were the faces unmistakably living and breathing, and did they have
mobile features ? What was the amount of light ? Spirits sometimes
make up faces and busts having no life in them.—Ed.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
41
July 23, 1875.
forms and faces ; besides the pretty passage of hissing
between the two sister girls. And yet so much was asked for
that was not responded to with performance that it left much
to be desired. Another appointment was gladly accepted by
the two strangers for the next (yesterday) morning. At this
second seance with the two strangers, there was simply a total
and unexpected failure. The dark seance was suppressed, the
spirits having promptly called for “ cabinet.” Then after
protracted waiting, with similar white cloudy appearances seen
within as above described, looking like attempts and failures,
we were told (by the alphabet) “ We cannot materialise."
“ Well, rest awhile,” said the Comte. “ We will wait a quarter
of an hour. See if you cannot gather more force.” “ Yes ;”
and the full light was restored. But after the resumption, still
nothing came, and we had to break up chagrined and disap¬
pointed.
At the former dark seance witnessed by one stranger, the
little Indian, though unseen, talked pretty freely with his pecu¬
liar well-known voice, in German and French as well as
English. When pressed to show himself, he said he could
not. “ Why ?” “ I ain’t allowed.” “ Who don’t allow you ?”
“ The great God.” This was uttered in a tone of solemnity
I have never before heard from him. (To him, I presume, as
with men and nations in history, the something immediately
above, whose control and power he felt, was probably “ the
great Gfod."')
I have since conversed with one Of the two persons above
referred to—the one I was most desirous to convince, but the
one who was unfortunately near-sighted. Not fully satisfied—
could imagine modes in which there might have been decep¬
tion by Firman. “ Did you not see him asleep in his chair
while the white forms and faces were there distinct from
him ? ” “ Yes,” but suppose they had been images which he
had stuck up ? ” “ But we had seen that there was nothing
concealed upon him and nothing in the bed.” “Ah, but Hou-
din does such wonderful things.” “ But Robert Houdin, on
his own stage, provided with all his elaborate machinery and
confederates, could never have made those two pretty young
faces kiss each other. You saw it and heard it.” “Yes,
but—” “ And your friend saw their lips move.” “ Thought
they did ; is not since sure- of having seen." “ Well, your
hand was touched when all the human hands round the table
were prisoned by being kept in contact in the chain.” “ The
contact between Firman’s and mine was simply that of our
little fingers.” “ Mine with my neighbour’s was more firm, but
for that purpose was not a little finger enough ? ” “ It might
have been detached for a moment and I not have noticed it.
I wish I could have seen a foot." “ Well, I have seen three
feet in the most conclusive manner.” And I related it.
But it is never of much use arguing. Seeing, and much and
manifold seeing, is what is required in this matter, so
hard at first to accept. “You shall see a good deal
more when Firman comes out of his prison. My own con¬
viction only follows after strong mental resistance, and such
convictions are alone worthy of respect.”. So much for our
efforts to bring conviction to M. Carraby’s mind, directly and
through those of his friends. No very splendid success, as
you see. And my interlocutor on this occasion did certainly
see what ought tOi>have wrought conviction. Even if the two
girl-forms and faces were mannikins stuck up by poor little
Firman in that empty cabinet, searched beforehand—and
mannikins provided with such wonderful internal machinery
as to kiss each other with an audible kiss, who drew the curtain
to again. Could mechanical puppets ?—Firman, seated, being
in our view. I suppose that argument would have been met
by some theory of invisible threads worked by unobserved
movements of his feet. The person referred to is of an in¬
telligent and perfectly honest mind, and well disposed to
belief, having read somewhat on the subject (even Wallace’s,
Crookes’, and Olcott’s recent books). So hard is it to reach
the inner citadel of conviction—so infinitesimally little in the
way of an imaginary possibility of an objection, that can be
formulated in words even though it will not bear a moment’s
test of discussion, is sufficient to keep out all the power of the
evidence of a new truth against which stand opposed strong
social and other influences. Food may be taken in, but it is
a process of time to digest and assimilate it.
I must curtail, but must not omit, the two evening seances
of those two days, which—the two persons referred to un¬
fortunately not being present—were in very deed splendid.
All the manifestations before described were reproduced, with
variation. The two sister spirits seemed stimulated to suc¬
cessful effort by the presence of their sister still in the flesh,
the countess, who was the object of no end of caresses from
them. And the way in which I, for my part, was treated and
played with was, as we Americans say, a caution ! Pattings and
strokings; my hair (rather long from neglect) pulled about
into a very hornet’s nest; my hands and face touched and
retouched with the feathery-feeling drapery; my face and
head once beaten about gently and playfully with this same
soft drapery, with, perhaps, a dozen quickly consecutive little
blows of what seemed regular exuberant fun. A charming
kissing performance occurred between Alexandrine and Car-
mita. They kissed three times in quick succession—three
quite loud kisses; and, seeming not satisfied, their lips came
together again and again. There were three or four plainly
visible and audible kisses between those two young creatures,
who, from what I am assured, were not less innocent apd
sweet in the human than now in the spirit life.
One incident I cannot omit. Alexandrine was looking
down on us from the window with so bright and kindly an
expression that I was prompted to exclaim: “ Oh, how happy
you are in the spirit-life! When shall I go and enter it too?
I hope it may not be long before I may. You will then, I
trust, feel as kindly to me as you do now. We shall then
know you all more closely. You will welcome us all there,
will you not ? ” The sweet face bent forward and nodded
distinctly—evident assent—and with such a benignant smile !
—and in a moment or two its hand moved up to its lips
and wafted forth a kiss—two kisses—to us. Thus, in very
truth, did this incident pass. Was not this some approxima¬
tion towards human intercourse with angels ? It left behind
it a singular glow of the soul. The feeling rose strongly in
my mind that “ it is good to be here.”
The showing of the foot of Mathilde (on request) was very
satisfactory. At first the curtain was but little drawn aside on
the left, where the Comte sat. He saw it better than I could,
though I had a glimpse of it. He then asked for it on the
other side for me, and again I saw it, but too briefly to be sure
that it was not a hand instead of a foot, and so I said. In a
few moments it was again shown, this time further advanced
to the light, and laid square and flat on the sole upon the black
railway rug, and left there Several seconds for inspection—a
slender, delicate, high-instepped girl’s foot, of pinkish flesh
colour, visible to the ankle, toes and all—and no mistake. No
lovelier little foot in the flesh was ever sculptured or painted;
it well corresponded with the singular beauty of Mathilde’s
face. She is indeed the beauty of the three par excellence.
When all was over, and we were talking it over, I suggested,
apropos of the all but total extinction of the sound of the
musical box at times, to try the experiment of how it would
sound at the furthest corner of the room, up or near the ceiling.
This was done by standing on a chair; the sound was clear and
distinct. It was then taken out of the room, and the door
closed. It then sounded exactly as it had sounded at the times
when we had fancied it mu3t be out of the room. It was pretty
evident that it had indeed been carried out through the shut and
locked door, and through the wall. The sound—if that faint
ghost of its music could be called sound—had always seemed
to come from that direction.
July Ibth.—I must complete this record by a short account
of the seance of yesterday evening, which was the farewell
meeting, since Firman was to go to his prison this morning at
eleven—such being the pleasure of the gods (of the perquet).
If he could have shown a good seance to M. Carraby this fiat
might possibly have been modified, but Dis aliter visum.
EXTRAORDINARY MANIFESTATIONS. .
There were present the Comte and Comtesse de Bullet, myself,
and the Firmans. All three, Alexandrine, and the two sisters
Mathilde and Carmita, made themselves visible. The old
musician Huerta, though not made visible, proved his presence;
he may be said to have entered an invisible appearance. So
did Frank, in a characteristic way. I will not touch on mani¬
festations which were only varied reproductions of what I have
before mentioned, but please refer back to what has been above
said about the musical box seeming from the sound to be
carried through and out of the door. A doubt remained on
my mind whether that effect of the sound being thus deadened
almost into silence might not have been caused by the box
being well muffled up in the thick double cloth of the bed
curtains. As though to clear up this question in my mind, the
box several times, while sounding loud on the table, would
shoot off to the right, and become thus instantly all but in¬
audible. A sharp knock on the inside of the door accompanied
this. I said, “ It is certainly now outside; let us observe its
return.” Then another knock on the outside of the door, and
it was again in an instant in our midst, full-squnding on the
42
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 23, 1875,
table-top. It reminded me, in its quickness, of the sudden
dart of a bird from the ground to a neighbouring bough, and
back again presently from the bough to the ground. * ‘ They
want to show us that it did indeed pass in and out through the
door,” I said. “ Yes ” was answered in loud raps under the
table. The sharp knock which was heard on the door did not
appear to be necessary to the operation of its passing through,
but rather to have been meant to call our special attention to
the door, for this knock on exit and re-entrance only occurred
once, whereas the rapid displacement from the table to the
door and vice versd (indicated by the sound, as above ex¬
plained) occurred a number of times without the accompani¬
ment of the knock.
The evening before we had had, as above mentioned, a per¬
fect show of the foot of Mathilde. This evening we had the
same from Alexandrine and Carmita, not less unmistakably
than in the former case. Alexandrine first showed her foot in
a sitting posture. When asked for it, she thrust it forward,
blit under her drapery, which it raised up to a point. ‘‘No,
no, without its being hidden by your dress,” said the Comte.
It was then put forward by itself, outside of the drapery, as
requested. But it was not flesh-coloured, as that of Mathilde
had been, but dead-white, apparently in a stocking or slipper.
“ But can’t you show it naked ?” It then was shown naked,
pinkish colour, toes and all, and a little higher this time than
the ankle. “ See,” I exclaimed to the Comte, “ we can see
the outline of the leg above.” It was indeed already distin¬
guishable under the thin drapery, nearly to the knee, and very
perfect in outline too. She presently went to the other side,
and again (this time standing) showed her foot as she stood,
her face at the window, and then thrust forward her hand at
its proper height. We thus saw all three together—face, hand
and foot. The little Carmita’s foot was not less distinctly
shown. tlMira,mira” exclaimed the Countess to her hus¬
band, “ el pie de familia /” (Look, the family foot 1) “ Yes,”
he answered. He afterwards explained to me that this re¬
ferred to the peculiarity of the great toe lapping a little over
the next one, and that it existed in the whole of her family
(daughters of the Marquis d’Arcos). This circumstance may
seem minute, but it was curious, as being so identifying.
Another little circumstance in this seance. The light was
moving about, now outside of our circle, now within it, as
though borne by, or shining from the face of, a person moving
about on the table. I could not distinguish features, but the
folds of drapery below it were manifest. From its relative
position to the drapery beneath it, it seemed to be light shining
from a face. The vertical plaits of the drapery beneath looked
as though gathered at a neck. Bullet said it was Carmita.
Presently, as though to certify who it was, there appeared in
front of the light, and dark against the background of light,
a slender girl’s or child’s hand held up, with the fingers spread
out and playing backward and forward. It thus passed and
repassed two or three times before the light. “ Ah, that is
Carmita’s dear little hand,” Bullet exclaimed. Three raps of
assent followed immediately. Whether they were raps on the
table or little pats on my hand I do not now remember, for it
frequently occurred that the assenting raps were thus given,
not on the table, but upon my hand, as though to satisfy the
constant—I will not say doubt—but critical vigilance of ob¬
servation on my part, I, from my habit of mind, being ever
attentive to the point of sufficiency of evidence.
At one time the little Indian’s familiar voice was there in
our midst. His childish talk is not worth repeating. But I
said: “ Ah, Franky, you may be an ignorant little boy, as
they say, but you are a good-hearted little one, and you know
I always stood up for you.” “ Yes; thank you.” And a
hand (different from the soft, gentle little fingers I was by
this time accustomed to) was in the midst of my hair, pulling
it about very freely, as in play. My head was thus pulled
forward to near the middle of the small table, and another
head bumped or knocked rather sharply, though not so as to
hurt, against the top of my forehead. I said: ‘‘I declare,
Franky has knockedlieads with me.” Immediately came his
little laugh, and his little voice said: “ Yes, which is the
hardest, Sully-Sully?” ‘‘I don’t know; I rather think yours,
Frank.” My spectacles were also taken off and transferred to ,
the face of the medium, who, when he afterwards woke up,
was evidently unconscious of having them on.
Are these trifles worth relating, or not ? It strikes me that
they are. I will mention one more.
My hand was taken, as it had been once before, by a man's
hand, and raised as high as I on my feet could stretch up my
arm. ‘‘ I think that is Huerta’s hand,” I said, for I thought I
recognised its feel. Then followed, not raps of assent, but
over our heads, three sounds of fingers snapped together ; and
then, circling round, the same sound of fingers snapped
together was continued, producing something like the effect of
castanets, keeping time to, and artistically accompanying, the
air which the musical box was playing on the table. “ Oh,
yes,” said the Comte; “that’sHuerta—youremembe^address-
ing his wife) that was a favourite performance of his.”
At this seance again occurred what we have frequently before
seen, though I have omitted to mention it, that the girl spirits
would gather up drapery and hold it up as a sort of pillow on
which they would recline their heads and cheeks, in a very
pretty, graceful fashion.
It is worth noting that at this farewell seance, of intimates
(for such I seemed to have become), with no strangers present
upon whom conviction was to be wrought, the curtain was not
once drawn aside, as it had been a score of times before, to
show the sleeping medium simultaneously with the spirit-
forms. It had been done often enough before, and no feeling
of doubt in any of our minds now called for or suggested it.
We none of us thought of it or cared for it at the time. But
I now recall and mention it, whether it may be taken by
others as making for or against. When a thing has been well
shown and thoroughly proved some twenty times, I see
no particular use in a twenty-yirst, when nobody present needs
or asks for it. Its omission then becomes rather a fresh con¬
firmation of the good faith and simple truth of the whole. I
had not even, for this farewell and intimate seance, thought of
attending to the usual test conditions of search of the person
of the medium, of the bed, &e., nor of locking the door.
I will not speak of the leave-taking of these spirits addressed
to their sister and brother. They were profuse in their various
caresses, as was manifest from the responsive exclamations
and speeches.
When all was over, “Light out” was said through the
alphabet, and presently a sort of farewell address was made
from inside—in English this time—and in a low whispering
voice which we could not easily, yet did distinctly, catch. It
was to the effect that they had done their best, in the short
time they had had, and under great difficulties. That it would
be some time before they could meet us again, but that before-
long they would do a great deal more. Some loving expressions
to their brother and sister, and then “God bless you, good
night, good night, adios, adios.”
THE IMPRISONMENT OF MR. FIRMAN.
Firman surrendered himself this morning punctually to
appointment, and the gates of St. PSlagie closed on as honest
and innocent a victim as they have ever imprisoned for the
crime of supporting a conscientious truth, at variance with the
ideas of the authority of the day. And that is saying not a
little.
After all that I have thus faithfully chronicled as having
passed under my own very wide-awake and attentive obser¬
vation, and after what I before told you of the little Indian
having been seen by M. de Yeh, the Comte de Bullet, and
Mr. J. H. Gledstanes, on four occasions simultaneously with
the medium (since the M. Huguet row, but before the trial),
when two of them floated up in the air, once so as to touch
the ceiling with his feather head-dress, and once up and down
several times, your readers may judge for themselves whether
at M. Huguet’s the little Indian was or was not “Firman on
his knees,” masked, &c. It is worth mentioning that since
the trial the little Indian has not once been made visible,
though frequently heard and requested to show himself. He
would always reply that be could not. On one occasion he
said he was not permitted by the great God. On another
he answered that his “medy (medium) was cross with him,”
though he “ wanted to show himself,” and it is a fact that
Firman has more than once said that he did not want to have
anything more to do with him ; that he had got into all his
trouble through him. It is curious that this state of the
medium’s mind or feeling about him should frustrate his wish
to materialise, though he was frequently there, to speak, hold
up the curtains, and do some of his little tricks. But we could
readily dispense with his appearance when we were receiving
such beautiful manifestations as I have just described from
such lovely and loving spirits of a higher category as Alex¬
andrine and the two sisters Mathilde and Carmita.
EXPERIENCES OF THE COMTE DE BULLET.
I again record that Comte de Bullet, after perusal, fully
confirms all the above, and authorises these letters to
be regarded as coming from us both. And though neither
of us is accustomed to discriminate between the word and
the word of honour, we both pledge the latter in the
July 23, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
43
strongest manner to the exact truth of all they contain.
I may also mention that he says that all these pheno¬
mena which I have witnessed with him are but little in
comparison with those he has before frequently obtained
through the mediumship of Firman, he sitting alone with
him for the twofold motive of investigation and of the en¬
joyment of this intercourse with the spirits of those not less
beloved still than they were in their life. He has had as
many as nine walk forth from the cabinet to him at one seance,
and three together at the same time. They have shown their
feet, raising them up to the edge of the sofa. He has taken
them in his hands very freely. He has felt different parts of
their bodies. They have come sometimes, not merely in the
gauze in which I have seen them draped, but in robes of the
most exquisite of laces, such as he has never seen elsewhere.
Among them have been grand1 forms of his father and an
uncle. The mother of Mathilde and Carmita, as of the
Countess (who died under thirty) is the most beautiful
of all. Another, not known to him in life, named Nathalie,
has been brought by Alexandrine, whose intimate friend
she was and is. There has been also a mulatto girl,
an old servant of the family. He has been often allowed to
go into the cabinet, and has witnessed the gradual condensa¬
tion of different forms into the result we call materialisation,
feeling the different portions of the body that were mate¬
rialised, and the absence of palpable substance in others. He
has also no end of times in the cabinet witnessed the converse
process of their gradually dissolving away. He has had some
photographed, by the light from the window, as they stood
for the purpose in front of the cabinet, and the photographs
remain to speak for themselves, including the photograph of a
sister of his own, who is still living and in health, at Balti¬
more, in the United States, the unexpected appearance of
whose double in this way suggested to him at the time that an
early steamer must • bring him news of her death. Buguet
was, indeed, the photographer, but Buguet away from his own
atelier and his draped mannikins,; and very much frightened
he seemed when he was first called upon to photograph a real
spirit-form which had walked forth into the light. No wonder
the Count stood by and sticks to Firman, whom he does not
wish to separate from him for years. These spirits of his are
all good spirits, overflowing with warm affection. He is
admitted into this intimacy of frequent intercourse with them,
in part, doubtless, from the facility arising out of almost
daily habit, and in part because he is so good and kind-hearted
a man himself, as well as an educated and intelligent, cool
and totally unenthueiastic one. He has no mediumship him¬
self. He remains, as he was brought up, a Boman Catholic;
but the priests had better let him alone about Spiritualism,
for if he believes in his religion, he knows the spiritual faith.
He has kept notes of all his experience, and talks of some day
writing it out, but I doubt whether he ever will. I give this
summary of it from his own lips (and have read it to him as
usual), because, though it has been witnessed only by himself
(he preferring it so and his fortune permitting it), I have now
also been admitted to witness so much of the same order of
facts, and to do so under test conditions, and with a close
vigilance of . accurate observation, that my own testimony to
what I have seen, heard, and felt reflects back upon the much
more not actually witnessed by me, and satisfies me fully of
its correctness, as, in his simple, quiet way, the Comte has
several times recounted it all to me, when I would cross-
examine his recollections. J. L. O'Sullivan.
Paris.
Sunday Lectures at Cavendish Booms.—An able
discourse was delivered on Sunday last at the above hall by
the Bev. F. B. Young, on the “ Old and the New,” Dr. Sexton
being absent on a lecturing tour in the provinces. The at¬
tendance was small, but all present seemed much pleased with
the lecture. On Sunday next Dr. Sexton will again resume
the platform, to deliver an address on “ Sincerity.” Service
at seven o’clock.
Spiritualism in Birmingham. — A correspondent
says :—“Dr. Monck is still in Birmingham, where he has been
residing for some time past, holding successful seances. Last.
Monday a seance was held at Mr. Perks’ house; some twenty-
four persons were present ; spirit hands were felt, spirit lights
were seen, tambourine and bells were played and floated about
the room, the table was taken up from the floor, and several
tests were given of a satisfactory nature. The Birmingham
press has given descriptions of Dr. Monck’s seances, which
have been puzzling even to the newspapers. Dr. Monck
remains in Birmingham a week or two longer.
POWERFUL SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS ON
BOARD H.M.S. MONARCH.
H.M.S. Monarch, Arosa Bay, Coast of Spain,
7th July, 1875.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—About nine months ago, by what would appear to a
casual observer the merest chance, a copy of the Medium and
Daybreak came into my possession.
1 had heard Spiritualism and the doings of the Spiritualists
spoken of occasionally when in England, but was one of
those, of whom there are so many, who, without any investi¬
gation of the subject, or without reading any of the books
written by those who had investigated, credulously imputed
the whole thing to His Satanic Majesty, because I was aware
that it was stated in the Bible that in the' last days should
come lying spirits seducing from the faith.
I did not, in my innocence, suppose for a moment that the
spirits alluded to might be wearing fleshly garments, walking
our streets, preaching materialism, and writing the Hod-dis¬
honouring books with which our literature has for some years
been flooded. I thought they must be disembodied.
I have reason to thank God that my eyes have been opened
since. From the time when the above-named ptfjier came
into my hands, I have made it my duty to study the subject
(it being of such vital import) and sift the evidence, and I am
glad to find that I have the power to believe in human
evidence. I have not had to depend though entirely upon the
evidence of others for my conviction.
Believing that the facts might be demonstrated on hoard a
ship as well as on shore, although with less facility, I induced
three others of my brother officers to investigate with me.
To our surprise we all four proved to be mediums, and
very soon found that conjuring had very little to do with
Spiritualism.
Such being the case, I feel it to be a positive duty not to
keep to myself the knowledge of a truth which may be useful
to others, if it only induces them to investigate for themselves.
I therefore forward herewith for you to publish, if you think it
worth while to do so, a few notes of our seances taken at the
time.—I remain, dear Sirs, yours faithfully,
William Watson,
Spiritualist, late an “ Investigator.”
Seances held in H.M.S. “ Monarch."
No. 1, May,l%15. — Sitters: Messrs. 0. K., B. B., and
W. S. W.
The manifestations were of the usual simple nature. The
table tipped, and one or two feeble attempts were made to
answer questions.
No. 2, May.—Sitters as above.
The manifestations as usual, with the exception that the
table was raised from the ground. It tipped over on to 0. K.’s
knee, and succeeded, by pressing down upon it, in raising its
feet into the air. After a short time, in compliance with our
expressed wish, it threw itself off the knee and floated for
two or three seconds in the air. Then with our hands still
upon it it shuffled up on to 0. K.’s knee and attempted to
mount on to his shoulder, but the leg missed, and the table
then stood with one leg pressed inside his waistcoat. After
coming to the ground it coolly got on to my bed and lay
down, the top of the table resting on the pillow. We took it
down, placed it on its feet, blew out the light, and waited for
further manifestations. The table, however, as if it were a
thing of life, would lie down on the deck and glide into a
corner.
We picked it up two or three times, but the intelligence
seemed to get angry.
The table gave a slight jump and off flew one of its
legs. C. K. caught hold of the table, but with a jerk it got
away, and off went the other leg.
We then lighted up and concluded the seance.
No. B, June, 1875.—Sitters as before, with the addition of
Mr. D.
The introduction of Mr. D. into the circle seemed to won¬
derfully increase the power. We had been sitting but a very
few moments when the table commenced to roll about. It
tilted over until it went down on the floor. Somebody re¬
marked, “ He’s got a lazy fit again,” when the table instantly
sprang up on to its feet. Shortly after it leaped right out of
the circle over the heads or shoulders of Messrs. D. and B.
Soon after it had been brought back into the circle again it
rose perpendicularly into the air, and to keep our hands on
the top we had to rise up on to our feet. Presently Mr. D.
44
THE SPIRITUALIST.
observed that it was dangerous to have such a heavy object
floating and jumping about in the dark, as it might fall on
one’s head and injure him. I had just said to him “ There is no
cause for fear; the spirits can guide it all right, and will take care
of us,” when he exclaimed, “ Oh! it’s jumped at me.” We struck
a match, and found his head nicely fitted between the two legs.
This would have been a neat shy, if done by one of us in day¬
light. At this seance raps were heard for the first time, and
a penholder was thrown into the circle. When this was
thrown, our hands were all joined on the table, as we were
testing the raps.
No. 4, 7th June.—Sitters as before. Progress made in such
a short time, truly wonderful. Immediately upon sitting, we
noticed the great powers possessed by the table. It danced in
capital time to the tune being played by the band just then.
We asked the spirits if the power was sufficient for them to
danse the table if we stood round and joined hands a foot or
two over it. The answer being “ Yes,” we did so, and the
table, untouched by us, danced in capital time to a waltz then
being played by the band. Two or three times it bounded off
the deck against us, but did not hurt us in the least.
Upon resuming our seats, I asked our visitors if we placed
paper and pencil on the table, would they write ? They pro¬
mised to do so, so we provided the materials. We joined
hands as before. Presently we heard the pencil writing. We
asked our unseen friends to rap when they had finished, so that
we could light up and see what they had written. This was
done, and we found three words and a half written, ‘ ‘ Ars longa
vitabre—.” The “ brevis” was not finished. We again blew out
the light, and put the paper and pencil on the table. The
paper was taken up and rattled about. After a short time it
was thrown out of the circle, and the pencil was pitched into
my lap. After this we made a piece of paper up into an en¬
velope, and placed the pencil inside. A hand was seen at
work, and the pencil rolled out, but there was nothing written.
The pencil was then placed inside, and the paper gummed up.
We desired that it should be taken out without the paper being
unfastened. This they could not or would not do, but the
paper was pitched away into a corner. It was brought back to
the table again by us. It then disappeared, and although I
have searched everywhere for it, it cannot be found. The
spirits told us that they had taken it, and were not going to
give it back again. During the evening the raps were fre¬
quent, both on the top and underneath the table. They were
of all descriptions, and might have been produced by tapping
with finger-nails, rapping with knuckles, and bringing the fist
down with very decent force. Three of us were touched dur¬
ing the evening. A hand clasped my waist, and having re¬
quested to be touched on the face, the fingers and thumb of a
small warm hand, apparently, were lightly pressed over my
mouth. The seance lasted for about an hour and a half. We
asked for a good night before we broke up the circle, and were
told to “ be off.” D. then got a rather heavy knock on the
back of his neck to enliven him up, upon which we quickly
struck a light to avoid getting the same.
No. 5, 9th June.—Sitters as before. The last time we sat
we, for the first time, were gently touched. To-night the
blows on the face and head were, to say the least, violent.
D. and B. fully expected to have black eyes, and I must say I
was made to see more stars than I bargained for. Upon sit¬
ting down, we asked our spirit-visitors if the presence of a
stranger we had admitted into the cabin would interfere with
the manifestations. The answer being given in the negative
he remained; but hot for long. Our friends evidently wanted
to astonish him, for we had not been sitting many minutes
when we heard a pretty hard blow, and he exclaimed, “ Oh !
it isn’t fair, it’s below the belt. Where’s the door?'As I can’t
see anything in the dark, I’ll be off.” After the laugh fol¬
lowing his egress was over, we had not long to wait to dis¬
cover that the force present, psychic, or any other, was de¬
cidedly a force of some kind. We all clasped hands round
the table. I was the first victim, and was heartily laughed at,
but the old saying of “Laugh not until you are out of the
wood” proved to be good advice. Blows and slaps came
thick and fast, and the laugher of one moment was the
laughed-at the next. I think, however, that I received the
most attention. I was not the least hurt though, and in fact
D. and B. were the only ones who received blows which appeared
to be at all vicious, and these a very small child could have
administered. There were more forces than one present, for
while one was drumming on the top of B.’s head, apparently
with knuckles, some very gentle force was touching the back
of my head, and another, almost imperceptible, was moving
G. K.’s hair about. After some time some one proposed to
July 23, 1875.
cover heads by putting our caps on. All but myself did so.
G. X. then asked if they could take his off. It was taken off.
He then asked that the same might be done for the rest, which
was also done. We heard the caps falling on to the floor in
the corner of the cabin. B. suddenly exclaimed, “ Mine is
put on again,” then, “ Now it’s taken off.” I had hardly got
the exclamation of “ By Jove 1” out of my mouth when the cap
was flung full in my face. Then I put my own cap on, but it
was immediately taken off, and we were then pelted with caps.
Afterwards we asked if the table could be taken out of the
circle if we took our hands away entirely. Being answered in
the affirmative, we all joined hands. Presently the table
floated over our arms and pitched into the corner. The noise
made in its descent might have been caused by its being some¬
what hastily lowered, but there was most certainly no reason
to suppose that it fell altogether unsupported. Presently it
came back into the circle again with less noise, if anything.
We asked our friends what they had done with the rough
paper envelope, with pencil inside, which disappeared at our
seance on the 7th, and they told us that they had taken it to a
private house in Lisbon (we were at anchor in the Tagus at the
time), and that we should not see it again.
William S. Watson.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
On Tuesday evening last week a Council meeting of the
British National Association of Spiritualists was held at the
rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
under the presidency of Mr. Alexander Calder. The other
members present were Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. Morell
Theobald, Mr. Henry Withall, Captain J. James, Mr. Samuel
Chinnery, Mr. Thomas Everitt, Mrs. Wood, Mr. George B.
Tapp, Mr. D. H. Wilson, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mrs. Maltby,
Mr. Joseph Freeman, Mr. E. Parkinson Ashton, and Mr.
Edmands.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
NEW MEMBERS.
The following new members were then unanimously elected:
Mr. W. Arbuthnot, Mr. J. J. Morse, Mr. J. J. Herfst, Mr. W.
Meredith, and Dr. J. Dixon.
The Secretary remarked that Mr. Herfst was formerly the
President of Oromase, the Society of Spiritualists at The
Hague, but had taken up his residence in London and ex-,
pected to remain for a year.
The following ladies and gentlemen having written to the
Association accepting honorary membership, were accordingly
elected: The Baroness de Giildenstubbe ; M. de Bassompierre;
M. Anthelme Fritz, President of V.Union Spiritisms et Magne~
time, Brussels; Mr. Luther Colby, Editor of the Banner of
Light, Boston ; and the Rev. S. Watson, Editor of the Spiritual
Magazine, Tennessee.
It was resolved to invite the following Spiritualists to become
honorary members of the Association—Mr. Isaac B. Rich, of
the firm of Colby & Rich, and Colonel P. Jacoby, of Brussels.
ELECTION OF PRESIDENT.
Mr. Dawson Rogers said that, according to the rules and con¬
stitution, the Association ought to have had a president long
ago, but, as it did not know whom to elect, nobody jiad yet been
appointed. The subject was more especially brought up at the
present moment because information had been received from
the United Spiritual Societies of the kingdom of Belgium, that
directly the British National Association of Spiritualists had
a president he would be elected a honorary member of the
Belgian Union. He thought there would be but one opinion
about the gentleman whom he would suggest as the most suit¬
able for the office, for they must all regard Mr. Martin Smith
as a good worker and warm friend to the cause, so that they
could not do wrong to invite him to become president. (Ap¬
plause.) He knew that Mr. Smith had one objection, and per¬
haps more, to take the office: he thought that it would involve
greater attention to the business of the Association than he was
able to give; but if he gave in the future that attention which
he had given in the past the Association would be amply satis¬
fied—there was no cause for fear on that ground. He would
propose that the Council invite him to become president of the
Association, and perhaps it would be well to send a deputation
to him on the subject. (Applause).
Mr. A. Calder said that he had much pleasure in seconding
the motion.
July 23, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
45
This was carried unanimously with acclamation, Messrs.
Bogers and Galder being appointed as a deputation to invite
Mr. Martin Smith to act.
FINANCE COMMITTEE’S REPORT.
Mr. Morell Theobald read the Finance Committee’s report
dated June 30th, showing a balance in hand of £137 13s. 6d.;
bills for payment (consisting of rent from the time the Associa¬
tion had taken possession of its new premises, salaries, and
miscellaneous items) amounted to £73 9s. 5d., leaving a
balance in hand of £64 4s. Id. The outstanding liabilities of
the Association amounted to nothing.
It was resolved that Mr. E. T. Bennett be requested to
apply at once for the payment of the rest of the guarantee
fund, to prevent the finances of the Association from getting
too low.
The Secretary stated that during the present year £192 had
already been paid in subscriptions, although forty or fifty
members had not yet made their remittances. Last year the
total income of the Association for the whole year was
only £190.
A letter from Mr. Tod was read in which he said that he
could not at present accept a seat on the Council because he
was not sufficiently acquainted with the facts of Spiritualism,
but that he was inquiring into them whenever opportunity
offered; he hoped that the time would come when he should
have much pleasure in accepting office.
THE PUBLIC FUNDS OF SPIRITUALISTS—WORKERS IN SPIRITUALISM.
The Secretary then read the following letter from Mr. W. H.
Harrison.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
38, Great Bussell-street, London, W.O.
July 13th, 1875.
To the Council of the National Association of Spiritualists.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—During the last sixteen years Mr.
Cogman has continued a series of free Sunday services in
connection with Spiritualism at the East-end of London; he
has also held free week-day public seances, at which much
knowledge of the subject has been diffused, and the powers of
Mr. Morse, as well as of other mediums, were developed in the
first instance; several of these mediums have since done work
of much value to Spiritualism. For the last three years Mr.
Cogman has continued to give regular Sunday services at 15,
St. Peter’s-road, MileEnd, E., in a respectable neatly-furnished
house in a quiet street. The work is made self-supporting as
much as possible, the mainstay, I believe, being Mrs. Cog-
man’s needlework. Now and then persons who visit the
meetings give five or ten shillings towards their support, but
such instances are rare; there is a collecting box at the door,
in which, after each meeting, a sum total of two or three
shillings is usually found, with an occasional peppermint-
drop or piece of tobacco pipe. The services are of good
quality, Mr. Cogman being an excellent trance medium.
Several other trance mediums, little known as yet, frequently
speak at the meetings.
Although this is a bad financial year for the National As¬
sociation, because it has had to pay £200 to furnish its new
offices, I think that Mr. Cogman should not be overlooked ;
for as it is true that those who make the most clamour are
not always the best workers in the Spiritual movement, it is
equally true that Mr. Cogman and Mr. Blyton have done
steady work for Spiritualism for many years, to an extent but
little appreciated, because they are so quiet.
As a private member of the Association, I therefore write
to ask you whether you do not think it would be right to offer
Mr. Cogman regularly one guinea a quarter towards the
expenses of his establishment, the said guinea to be paid at
the termination of each quarter, and on condition that free
public Sunday services have been/ held regularly on his pre¬
mises during the preceding three months. If this is done, I
think that the regret might be also expressed that under pre¬
sent circumstances the Association is not well able to do more
to help him.
I have now to ask the Association for a further boon and
privilege to myself, which I do not think it will object to
grant, because my work in Spiritualism has been especially
arduous in consequence of the unequal distribution of the
public funds in aid of spiritual literature. During the last
six years £500 a year has been given, mostly by my personal
friends, to one branch of our spiritual literature, making a
total of £3,000, whilst to that section with which I
am connected rather less than £600 has been contri¬
buted in the same time in a semi-public way. This
inequality arises from the fact that from the first I have had
conscientious objections to the introduction of the subscrip¬
tion system in aid of private individuals into Spiritualism.
I think it would have been better for the movement
had it left readers to pay a halfpenny or a penny more each
for their journals, rather than that a very few friends should
have been burdened with the enormous expense of £3,600
during the last six years. Still, as a balance of public capital
amounting to £2,400 has been spent during the past six years
for the benefit of the movement, but unintentionally in such
a way as to injure me severely by underselling, I have been
left to pay out in money all the heavy losses thereby inflicted.
The boon I have to ask the Association is this: New
mediums often come to me asking for reports of their mani¬
festations, and the movement at large desires to receive par¬
ticulars relating thereto. I therefore wish the Association to
allow me the free use of the seance-xoova. occasionally for
private circles at which no money is taken by the medium or
by anybody else, and upon evenings when the seance-room is
not required for any other purpose. The number of evenings
upon which it might be so granted to me could be limited, that
is to say, it might be a rule that I could not have it more than
two evenings per month. I do not think that upon an
average I should ask for it more than once a month.—Truly
yours, William Harrison.
Mr. Everitt remarked that Mr. Cogman deserved help, but
he was afraid that the Association was not affluent enough to
do anything for him just now.
Mrs. Maltby said that she thought Mr. Cogman had done
more good to the cause of Spiritualism than almost anybody
else she knew.
Mr. Morell Theobald said that it would not be well to pledge
the Association to continuous expenditure, but that something
might be done now, and the subject might be brought up again
at a future time. He would move that the Association give
Mr. Cogman a donation of £2 2s.
Mr. Chinnery seconded this, and it was carried unani¬
mously.
Mr. .Everitt said that the Association should not give up
one privilege after another, and that Mr. Harrison had an office
on the premises in which he could hold seances.
Mr. E. D. Bogers said that he should object to surrendering
a room even for one evening as a matter of right; he thought
that on every Separate occasion it should be asked for, and
that application should be made to a committee.
Mr. Morell Theobald said that Mr. Harrison’s suggestion was
eminently calculated to benefit the Association, and he won¬
dered that, any question was raised on the point.
Mr. Harrison said that he fully agreed with what Mr. Bogers
had said, that the Association should keep all its privileges
constantly in its own hands. Mediums had come to him
asking to have their powers examined, and he had not found
it convenient to do so, one impediment being the want of a
room, since his office had been tried, but was too small for
the holding of seances. The Association could not of course
at once recognise new and unknown mediums, or those
freshly arrived from foreign countries. Consequently, unless
some arrangements were made, all such who called at the
office of the Association, and wished their powers made known,
went away without being assisted: thus the doors of the estab¬
lishment were, practically speaking, closed against them.
Mr. Morell Theobald moved that the chairman of the Seance
Committee be empowered to grant the use of the seance room
free, not more than twice a month, to Mr. Harrison, and that
in the absence of the said chairman the room might be
granted for the purpose by the secretary.
This was seconded and carried unanimously.
The Secretary reported that sometimes Spiritualists wrote
to her asking for cheap pamphlets and leaflets to distribute
among the public. It would be well to have some printed.
MR. MORSE’S RECEPTION.
The Secretary read a letter from Mr. Morse, announcing that
he would be glad to give an account of his work in America on
his return to England, at any meeting held under the auspices
of the National Association of Spiritualists.
ALLIANCE WITH FOREIGN SPIRITUAL ORGANISATIONS.
The Secretary said the United Spiritual Societies of the King¬
dom of Belgium had invited the president of the British
Natiqnal Association of Spiritualists to become a honorary
member of the Belgian Union, and had expressed a wish that
the said Union should enter into regular alliance with the
British National Association; she would therefore suggest
46
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 23, 1875.
that the National Association should enrol itself as an allied
society as proposed. She also recommended that the Associa¬
tion should enter into an alliance with the Oromase Society at
The Hague, with the Austrian organisation at Pesth, with the
SociHe Spirite at Paris, with the chief of the Spanish
societies, and with a few other national institutions. The
secretary to the principal Spanish society had written to Mr.
Harrison asking whether English Spiritualists would help
them to have the literature of Spiritualism fully represented
at the Philadelphia exhibition. If all these societies were
allied and in regular correspondence with each other, united
and prompt action in any matter would be facilitated.
It was then unanimously resolved to invite these societies
to enter into an alliance with the National Association.
It was next resolved that various foreign societies of Spirit¬
ualists should be invited to send their journals to the National
Association, and that for each journal thus applied The
Spiritualist should be sent regularly in return.
CONSTITUTION AND BULBS.
Mr. Dawson Eogers produced printed proofs of the constitu¬
tion and rules as adopted and passed by the Council. He
had only one fresh proposition to make respecting them, and
that was, that life membership should be abolished, for its
establishment had not been found conducive to the interests
of the Association. He would also suggest that before more
copies were printed off, the members of the Council should
examine the rules well, to see if they required any further
alteration. It would not do to delay the printing of them,
for they had been so well considered and amply discussed that
there were applications for printed copies for examination
from all parts of the world.
It was then resolved that the full number of copies
should be printed off that day week, provided no suggestions
were sent in to the committee recommending more than
verbal alterations. Any suggested, alterations involving a
principle were to be submitted to the Council.
SUBSCKIPTION SEANCES.
The Secretary reported that Mr. Blackburn’s plan for hold¬
ing seances on the premises of the Association would be
carried out, and that sufficient subscriptions had already been
entered to cover the expenses of the first series of seances.
It would begin on the 10th September through the medium-
ship of Mr. Williams. If more seances were wanted, would-
be subscribers should send in their names, and another series
could be arranged.
THE PERSECUTION OP SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
Mr. Samuel Chinnery said that he had not much more in¬
formation to give about the legal proceedings against certain
Spiritualists in Paris than had been published in the
Spiritualist. He had not heard whether M. Leymarie intended
to appeal against the decision, but he had advised him not to
do so, because he (M. Leymarie) was the “ point of attack ” of
the Jesuits, and the only result of the appeal would be that he
would get five years’ imprisonment instead of one. Still M.
Leymarie had been advised by other of his friends to "appeal.
When Buguet’s letters to Leymarie—proving that Leymarie
knew nothing about his tricks—were produced in court, they
almost made the President and others start to their feet, but
they had no effect upon the sentence ; no doubt the j udgment
had been arranged beforehand. In reference to Mr. Firman,
Mr. O’Sullivan told him he might run away if he liked and
forfeit his bail, but Firman refused, for which reason probably
his sentence was made shorter than that of either of the others.
Several persons told Mr. O’Sullivan that he was in danger in
advising Firman to avoid his trial, but such was not the case
according to the law of France. He (Mr. Chinnery) had re¬
ceived a letter that morning saying that probably Firman
would be in England in a few days, and would give some
seances. Firman asked Euglish Spiritualists to do a little for
his wife, since he was going to prison for the good of the
movement. While he was in prison he would have to keep
himself, so he asked for some trifle both for himself and wife
while he was there. It was a very startling thing that the
garment said to have been captured from Firman by Madame
Huguet had never been found ; why it was never produced in
court nobody could tell. When help for Messrs. Leymarie and
Firman from the National Association was talked of in Paris,
he (Mr. Chinnery) told them that the Association was not
rich, and was overburdened by expenses during the present
year. M. Leymarie thought that the Soci6t6 Spirite had
some claim on the English one, since it was going to publish
translations of Allan Kardec’s works in the English language at
an expense to itself of about £600. The French Society was a
rich one, richer than the English, and received very large sub¬
scriptions ; in ordinary times it flourished, but recently it had
had heavy expenses. Looking at all the circumstances of the
case, he thought that all he could recommend was that some¬
thing should be done to help Firman, who sooner or later
would come to London and give seances. He was a good
medium, and would submit to any test.
Mr. Calder said that if a private subscription list were
opened the amounts could be collected by the secretary of the
National Association. He thought that more-money would be
obtained for Firman in that way than by any direct appeal to
the National Association itself under present circumstances.
After some little discussion, it was resolved that a subscrip¬
tion list for the benefit of Mr. Firman and his wife should be
opened, and that the secretary of the National Association
should act as secretary to the fund.
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS.
The Secretary reported that Mr. E. T. Bennett and Mr.
Keningale Cook had given notice that at the present meeting
of Council they would move that a subscription should be
given by the Association in aid of Dr. Sexton’s lectures, but
Messrs. Cook and Bennett were not present.
The matter was therefore deferred.
Mr. Rogers proposed that the secretary should have every
year a month’s holiday of two fortnights each, since she could
not be spared for the whole month at a time. During her
absence Mr. Selwood would be on duty most of the time, and
Mr. Harrison would be at the offices more frequently than at
present, so that no doubt the expense of appointing some¬
body to do the duties could be avoided.
This was agreed to.
Mr. Everitt was appointed a member of the Offices Com¬
mittee in place of Mr. Harper, who was unable to attend in
consequence of absence from town.
THE ANNUAL NATIONAL CONFERENCE QF SPIRITUALISTS.
Mr. Everitt gave notice that at the next meeting of the
Council he would move that the National Conference of
Spiritualists be held in October.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory suggested that it should be later,
since everybody was out of town when it was held last year
in the middle of the dead season.
The proceedings then closed.
The Cost oe a Spiritual Institution.—The regular
annual expenses of the permanent establishment in London of
the National Association of Spiritualists at 38, Great Russell-
street, amount to about £400 a year, out of which the secre¬
tary receives £150 a year, and a residence rent free. The
premises are the finest connected with Spiritualism in any
part of the world. The establishment derives no profits in
any way from trade, but is managed by a purely public body,
which confines its attention to public work.
Spiritualism in Leicester.—The first quarterly report
of the Leicester Society of Spiritualists presented at the quar¬
terly meeting, held in the society’s meeting-room, Silver-street,
July 8th, 1875, set forth that Spiritualism has had an existence
in Leicester for a long time, and that private circles have been
formed as the subject gained popularity. Among the pioneers
in bringing Spiritualism before the Leicester public were Mr.
and Mrs. Muir and Mr. J. K. Smith. The latter gentleman
held a public seance at his residence in Bond-street, and proved
the truthfulness of Spiritualism to the minds of many. He
also introduced Mr. Morse, the trance-speaking medium, to the
public of Leicester. Later on public seances were opened at
the houses of Mr. W. Burdett, Noble-street; Mr. Grimes,
Grove-street; Mr. Hawkins,'Gower-street, and in other parts
of the town. Dr. Sexton visited Leicester, and delivered three
lectures in the Temperance Hall, in November of last year,
ably demonstrating the truthfulness of Spiritualism. These
resulted in the formation of the society, which all along has had
to work in the face of difficulties. Through religious bigotry
and other causes, it has had to remove twice from rooms it had
taken, but now the committee has secured a very suitable room
in the centre of the town for the society’s meetings. It has
also elected a good working committee. The society sustained
a great loss when the late president, Mr. Wonfer, resigned his
office, for he was a thorough worker in the cause of Spiritualism.
A few weeks ago Mr. and Mrs. Hitchcock, and Mr. and Mrs. Mor-
tin, of Nottingham, visited Leicester; excellent trance addresses
were delivered, and test communications were given of great
value to members who attended the meetings. The secretary
is Mr. Charles Burdett.
July 23, 1875.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
47
ALLEGED INSANITY OF MR. ROBERT DALE
OWEN.
The Daily News of last Tuesday contained the following
paragraph:—
The Chicago Tribune publishes a despatch announcing that
Mr. Robert Dale Owen has become insane. It appears that
he had unhesitatingly accepted as supernatural some “ mani¬
festations ’’ at Philadelphia, and had lived some time there in
order to miss none of the seances. A certain “ Katie King,”
who was the principal agent in producing these manifesta¬
tions, afterwards confessed that they were a fraud. Mr. Owen
had in the meantime written an article upon them in the
Atlantic Monthly, in which he spoke of them as furnishing an
undoubted proof of a life hereafter. The day before the
article appeared the fraud was exposed. Mr. Owen wept bit¬
terly, it is said, when a conviction that he had been made a
dupe forced itself upon him. He telegraphed to Boston to
cut out the article, but it was too late. The Magazine was
already printed. A thin slip of paper, disclaiming any edi¬
torial responsibility, and thus increasing that of the author,.
was prefixed to the sketch. And thus it came to pass that
Robert Dale Owen’s syllogistic proof that “ Katie King ” was a
spirit, and “ Katie’s ” own confession that she was a fraud, were
published together throughout the country. The blow was
too heavy, and Mr. Owen’s mind gave way under it. Com¬
menting upon the news, the New York Tribune says : “ Mr.
Robert Dale Owen’s insanity, in consequence of the recent
exposure of some spiritualistic phenomena which he had
accepted, will be heard of with regret by a wide circle of
friends and admirers, of whom very few have the least sym¬
pathy with Spiritualism, or in general with Spiritualists. Mr.
Owen was a man of singular purity and sincerity of character.
His intellectual integrity was as unquestionable as his literary
skill, and his conversation was as fascinating as his writing.
Few of his friends attached much importance to his judgment,
and most of them gently laughed at the strange notions to
which he devoted so much time during his later years.”
Mr. Harrison sent the following letter to the Daily News
immediately upon the publication of the above :—
To the Editor of the “ Daily News.”
Sib,—Having seen a statement made on the authority of
the Chicago Tribune in the Daily News of this day, to the
effect that the accomplished writer and diplomatist, Mr.
Robert Dale Owen, is insane, I write to ask you and your readers
not to accept the statement until it is authenticated. I am
in tolerably constant correspondence both with Mr. Dale Owen
and with many of his personal friends, and have not heard a
word from anybody about his alleged insanity. Whatever
opinion any one may hold about the English newspaper press,
American journalism is in a much worse state ; the number of
articles contributed by me to English scientific periodicals,
and which have been afterwards stolen without acknowledg¬
ment and published in American journals as their own, may
simply be numbered by scores; and in Chicago, the place
whence the present statement about Mr. Dale Owen originated,
the Spiritualistic and non-Spiritualistic journals are con¬
stantly quarrelling.
In Mr. Dale Owen’s last letter to me he said that he had
taken up his residence in Dansville, Livingston County, State
of New York, and should be there for two or three months to
come. If he has since become insane in the state of New
York, how is it that a Chicago newspaper, published in
Illinois, should be the first to obtain the news ?
An American gentleman, Dr. Test, who has called upon me
since I began writing this letter, says that when American
newspapers determine to ridicule a subject, and find a victim,
they show no mercy, and that dozens of illustrations come
before his mind at the present moment. It is best to wait
before accepting the painful rumour about Mr. Owen as re¬
liable.—Truly yours, n William H. Harrison.
38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, "W.C.
The Daily News of Wednesday published the essential por¬
tions of the foregoing letter. It is to be hoped that the sad
news cannot be confirmed.
In the course of Mr. Dale Owen’s last letter to Mr. Har¬
rison he said: “ I have been quite ill for eleven days, confined
to bed, and am just able to write you a few lines.” He also
sent his likeness, with the remark: “ It is the best photograph
that has ever been taken of me, and one of the best photo¬
graphs ever executed in the United States.”
KARDEC’S SPIRITS’ BOOK.
Miss Anna Blackwell’s translation of Allan Kardeo’s
Spirits' Book .Icl&s just been published. It contains from 450
to 500 pages, is well printed, and neatly bound. As Kardeo’s
speculations have obtained such a great hold among Spirit¬
ualists upon the Continent, his book is one which deserves
very serious attention on the part of English Spiritualists.
He professes to give true theories of nearly all the phenomena
incidental to existence, and deals with the mysterious
problems connected with the career of the human soul before
its birth into this world, during its life in this world, and
during its existence in the land beyond the grave. Soon we
shall give an extended notice of the book, which has passed
through many editions in France. Copies may be obtained at
the Branch Office of The Spiritualist newspaper, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Next Monday, evening Mrs. Hardy will give a seance
in connection with the Brixton Psychological Society.
The Spiritualist newspaper may be obtained in Bir¬
mingham from Mr. Aaron Franklin, 100, Suffolk-street.
Me. Trubner, the well-known publisher of works con¬
nected with advanced thought, will leave London for a tour on
the Continent in a day or two.
Owing to the space occupied by the interesting news from
Paris, much correspondence and several articles are delayed
in publication till next week.
Brixton Psychological Society. — The ( half-yearly
general meeting of this society, which was to have taken place
on Wednesday, the 14th instant, was adjourned, in conse¬
quence of the small attendance of members, owing to the bad
weather, until Tuesday, the 3rd August next. Since the
formation of the society the members have not been called
together to do anything, or to become acquainted with each
other, except upon one occasion, of which too short notice was
given.
American Spiritualists in London.—Mrs. Susan G.
Horn, a gifted medium, and author of the forcibly written
work Strange Fisifors, has arrived in London in company with
her husband, from the United States. They intend to pass
some time on the Continent, and Mr. Horn will act as corre¬
spondent for the Banner of Light during his stay in Europe.
Mr. and Mrs. Hardy are still in London, but will sail for the
United States on the 3rd August next; they have engage¬
ments which compel their return, but think of revisiting
England. Dr. and Mrs. Hallock, two American Spiritualists,
are also in London at the present time.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—Among other business trans¬
acted at the last Council meeting of the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism, an offer from Mr. F. M. Parkes
to prepare a paper upon the “ Psychic Elements of Spiritual
Photography, and his Experiments relating to them,” was ac¬
cepted with thanks—the date for the reading of the paper to be
arranged by the hon. secretary. The following presentations
to the library were reported, viz.: Mesmerism and its Opponents,
from Captain John James; Seers of the Ages, Jesus—Myth,
Man or God, Witch Poison, The Gadarene, Travels Round the
World, and The Spiritual Pilgrim, from their author, Mr. J.
M. Peebles, per Mr. J. J. Morse ; La Rfalite des Esprits, and
Penstes d'Outre Tombe, from the Baroness Giildenstubbe, per
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, and various pamphlets and papers
from the British National Association of Spiritualists. Votes
of thanks were accorded to the donors. After the Council
meeting was over, the ordinary weekly seance was held. An
exceptionally interesting sitting resulted, due to the trance
mediumship of Mr. F. M. Parkes, who was present. Several
spirits controlled Mr. Parkes, one of whom was that of Dr.
Woolley, one of his spirit-guides. The spirit, in reply to
questions as to the doctrine of reincarnation, stated that he
could not endorse the teaching, inasmuch as he had no know¬
ledge from experience or from associates in his sphere of
existence which admitted of his accepting such ideas as true.
Reincarnation appeared to him as “ progressing backwards, ’
and he was unable to understand the principles involved. The
half-yearly general meeting of the Dalston Association will be
held next Thursday night.
48
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 23, 1875.
NATIONAL ORGANISATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Since the meeting of the Liverpool Conference in 1873,
when it was resolved to begin the work of national organisa¬
tion in order that friendly union among Spiritualists might be
promoted, and that all who were averse to dissension should
have an opportunity of working harmoniously together, the
progress made has been most gratifying. The National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists has from the first continued to grow
steadily, and has established in London reading and seance
rooms, and public offices, which not only are a credit to the
movement in this country, but are stated by those who have
visited them to be better than any which have been established
anywhere in the United States of America. This is not a
little surprising, the movement being so much larger there
than it is here.
These great results have been achieved without getting into
debt. Although nearly £200 has been spent this year in fur¬
nishing the new offices, the Association at the present moment
owes nobody a farthing, and what with the funds in hand,
with the amount of unpaid subscriptions, and with the pro¬
portion of the guarantee fund not called up, will be able to
tide over this year with a very small deficiency, if any, and
that deficiency can be covered by means of not much exertion
on the part of the large number of members of the organisa¬
tion. Perhaps the slight probable deficiency may be covered
by the ordinary steady influx of new members.
The advantage of united friendly effort being so palpable,
all Spiritualists who are interested therein should become
members of the Association. Although individual contribu¬
tions may be small, in the aggregate they amount to a great
deal; thus a vast amount of good can be done for Spiritualism
without any heavy money sacrifices on the part of anybody,
although at the outset some three or four well-known friends
contributed large sums to aid in fairly floating the organisa¬
tion. The Association has as yet been joined only by a very
small minority of the regular readers of this journal, the whole
of whom may be supposed to take an interest in the work,
therefore the present opportunity is taken of asking the great
majority to enrol themselves as members without delay, seeing
how very much good for the movement can be effected by
small efforts on the part of a large number of persons. In
this, indeed, consists one of the chief advantages of organi¬
sation.
Before the present year closes the Association will give a
public reception to Mr. Morse on his return from America. A
public reception to M. Aksakof has also been suggested at one
of its meetings ; this also should undoubtedly be carried out,
for probably no one on the Continent has done more to spread
a knowledge of Spiritualism in Europe. He has started and
keeps alive Psychic Studies (Leipzig), and one other spiritual
periodical. He has also translated and published in different
parts of the Continent some fifteen or twenty of the best and
largest standard works on Spiritualism.
At the next Council meeting of the Association the question
of holding an Annual Conference in October will have to be
considered.. The question at issue will be chiefly one of
expense. Those held in previous years have cost from £80 to
£40 each; much of the expense last year was due to the cir¬
cumstance that a portion of the proceedings came off at the
Crystal Palace. If the next Conference should be held in the
provinces, those local Spiritualists who give the invitation
will probably bear the expenses. If it should be held in
London, it would do much more good to the movement,
because of the far wider publicity its proceedings will gain
through the press, as exemplified by the results last year.
The Association, pledged .as it is to live within its income,
and not to get into debt, has no funds in hand for the holding
of a Conference this year, so cannot be committed to it until the
money is guaranteed; perhaps this difficulty may be overcome
by a private and special subscription. However, this and
other points will be considered at the next Council meeting,
and the course of action resolved to be taken will no doubt be
a wise one.
If all the regular subscribers to this journal, who must by
this time be more or less interested in the great practical step
of establishing friendly union among Spiritualists, were to
enrol themselves as members of the National Association,
ways and means over small items of outlay, such as confer¬
ences and the establishment of a philosophical department,
would not have to be considered, but all moderate steps of
this kind could be taken with ease without any special sub¬
scriptions by, or particular burden to, anybody. It is practically
being discovered that most of those Spiritualists who have
recently joined the Association would have done so before had
any member asked them and offered to propose them. The
greatest good, therefore, that individual members can do for
the organisation at present, is to invite all their personal
friends who have not yet joined the Association to do so
forthwith. By individual effort in this direction the hands
of the executive, which is working so well for the good of the
movement, could be much strengthened.
VALUABLE PRESENTS TO THE SPIRITUAL
MOVEMENT.
Last Monday Mr. Alexander Calder presented two beauti¬
ful works of art, executed by a master hand, to the British
National Association of Spiritualists. The particulars are
contained in the following letter :—
1, Hereford-square, South. Kensington, S.W.,
19th July, 1875.
Miss Kislingbury, Secretary, British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Dear Miss Kislingbury,—On Saturday last at Christie’s
was sold a collection of oil paintings by H. W. Pickersgill,
R.A., the eminent portrait painter, when two of them, half-
length pictures of D. D. Home and Robert Owen, fortunately
became mine. They are pronounced by competent judges to
be excellent works of art, and the former an admirable like¬
ness of our most celebrated medium.
I have much pleasure in presenting these pictures to the
British National Association, not doubting that they will
receive and cherish them in honour of those remarkable
men.—Yours truly, Alex. Calder.
Me. Moese in Ameeica.—In a private letter to Mr. W.
H. Harrison, dated New York, July 8th, Mr. Morse says :—“ I
spoke here last Sunday morning and evening with the most
gratifying success. I can hardly call to mind the time when
my labours have evoked more enthusiasm. On Monday the
5th, the,' glorious 4th of July ’ was celebrated, fire crackers,
pistols, cannon, and every conceivable explosive being the
exponents of popular patriotism. The din commenced at
2'45 a.m., and continued long past midnight.”
Spibitualism at Poetsmouth.—A friend writes from
Southsea.—“ We are getting on admirably with our circles.
Our trance medium is developing rapidly. We had last night
six different spirit-friends speaking through her. One old and
dear friend of mine comes ; he gives his name in the hearing
of all the circle, when no one knew such a person had existed,
and his name—an uncommon one—had never passed my lips.
The Channel fleet came in the other day, and several officers
of Her Majesty’s service called on me. Four of them proved
mediums, when, as yet, they had never been to a seance. They
obtained manifestations at once, and their development
ranges from powerful physical to direct writing. We are get¬
ting up new circles with them.”
THE SOUL OF THINGS;
OR, PSYCHOMETRIC RESEARCHES AND DISCOVERIES
In Three Volumes, Fourth Edition.
By William and Elizabeth M. F. Denton.
“ We have here a marvellous book. It is calm, and seems perfectly
sincere, and yet it makes larger drafts upon our credulity than any work
we ever before met with. The old alchemists never conceived of anything
half so strange. Spiritualism, with all its wonders, is scarcely a vestibule
to what we are introduced to here.
“ Were there any reliance to be placed on these revelations, it would be
impossible to estima'e the value of this newly-discovered power. It would
resolve a thousand doubts and difficulties, make geology as plain as day,
and throw light on all the grave subjects that time has so effectually ob¬
scured.”—New York Christian Ambassador.
“ In the varied wonders they describe there is a peculiar and intense
interest. If what is claimed in this book be true, it records the most
remarkable discovery yet made as regards the capacities of the human
mind in its abnormal state.”—Norfolk County Journal.
“ There is much extraordinary matter in these pages. It is avolume em¬
phatically deserving of the reader’s choicest study.”—Boston Traveller.
“ Though as concise as a text-book, we read The Soul of Things with the
fascination of a work of fiction. Indeed, it is truth itself, stranger than
fiction, written in the vivid style which is a part of Mr. Denton’s remark¬
able power.”—American Spiritualist. ' »
Price 8s. per volume.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch OfBce, 38, Great Russell-st., London, W.O.
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK. Containing the Principles of
SPIRITIST DOCTRINE in the Immortality of the Soul, &c., &c.,
according to the Teachings of Spirits of High Degree, transmitted through
various Mediums, collected and set in order by ALLAN KARDEO. Trans¬
lated by ANNA BLACKWELL. Or. 8vo, pp. 612, cloth, 7s. 6d. Londo
Trubner & Co., 57 & 59, Ludgate-hill.
July 23, 1875,
THE SPIKITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOG ST, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SAI/E AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.O.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 16s. ; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes. E.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, E.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s “ Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. 0d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Ered. A. Blnney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s. ,
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Cmens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents: The Antl-Supematuralism of the Present Age;
Science and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science;
the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism ; Thoughts
on Spiritualism; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles and Pneumatology;
the Spirit-and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. 12mo., 600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrrounded. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the . inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there isnodoubtasto the
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability of
clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND.. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative or spirit life. The preface says “Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for granted
because uttered bjr a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of all the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive tbeir instructions.”
6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
im . This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America auring the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS* BOOK” (Blackwell.) 7s. 6d.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits through the
mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is sometimes made by disbelievers
that spirit messages are of a trumpery character, but these beautiful poems
give evidence that all Spirit utterances are not so. The “ The Prophecy of
V ala,’’published in this book and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar
Alien Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole of his life
on earth. Best edition. Gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition, 7s. 0d.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through the medium-
ship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work, is a coUection of beautifn
poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H. S. Olcott.
Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. William Crookes and
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author is a literary gentleman of high stand¬
ing in New York, and the book consists of descriptions of seances at which
materiaiised spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers, their homestead,
and the phenomena presented at their seances, are mcluded in the work. 12s. 0d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS LIFE. By
Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER WHICH
HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS. By Allan Putnam.
THE CELESTIAL TELEGRAPH, OR SECRETS OF THE
LIFE TO COME. Proved by many years experiments by means of eight
ecstatic somnambulists. Cahagnet, 10s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST. By Wash¬
ington A. Danskin,4s. 0d.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces of music,
and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams. 6s.
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a public
trance sneaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet,
with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 0d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspirationally through
the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL MAN
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle. This book argues
that man is contemporary with the Mastodon, and details the history of his
subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS, OR GENESIS AND
GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen. 3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the testimony of
the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE. ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a vision of
scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 0d.
HEAVEN OPENED, OR MESSAGES FOR THE BEREAVED
FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY. Christian spirit-messages given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. (Part one), 0d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of, and
advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 0d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. 6d.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles
6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 0d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s rans-
lation.) 7s. 6d.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM
7s. 0d. ’ .
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 6s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
book, containing messages given by Spirits through the Writing Mediumship
of a Lady. 2s. 0d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 26s,
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU, giving
information about Spiritual Phenomena among the Amazulu and other Tribes
of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon Callaway. M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION INTO
THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Thomas P.
Barkas
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the Rev.
Bourchler Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 0d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO
MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Hguh
Farmer, 1706. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOPATHY; OR, THE TRUE HEALING ART, by
Joseph Ashman. , is.,
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 23, 1875.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Contains Records
of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnambulism, and Clairvoyance, and
philosophical considerations connected therewith. This work gained the prize
offered for competition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 3s. 6d.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith, formerly Editor
of the “ Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
Tht “ Poughkeepiie Seer.” s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . ' . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . ; . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . . • .76
The Seer. " „ III, „ . , . . ..76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . . . . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . , . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis . . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . . . .40
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . .. . , , ' . .'7 6
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the1 People . . , .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . . , ,40
History and Philosophy of Evil . , . ... . .40
Harbinger of Health , . , . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age. . . . . .40
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . . . ,76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . . . . .30
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion. . . , . . .40
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . . . .80
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . . . .66
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained . . . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . . ..60
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime . . . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . , . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology , . . . . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
5. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recommended by
The Spiritualist Newspaper . . . . . . . 2 J5
Keys of the Creeds . .. . . . . . .50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing interesting particulars
and legends relating to Buddhism . . . . . . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . . .76
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from China to India
(400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from the Chinese by Samuel Beal,
B.A., Trin. Coll, Cam. . , . . . . . . . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus, by the Rev.
Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . . . . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English, with Pre¬
liminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions interpreted by Coln-
parative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . . . . . 10 6
Awas-L-Hind, or A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer . .60
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English from the Chinese.
Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL D. . . . . . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Explanation of the
Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism,
Vital Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous
Congestion, by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . w, . , .20
The Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, Secretary of the
Legation of the United States of America at Constantinople . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond the Grave,
by the Rev. John Paul, B. A. . . , . . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North Germany, and the
Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In three vols. . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed. Translated into
English immediately from the original Arabic, by George Sale . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S. Special edition
for Schools . . . . . . . ■ . .10
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales Eorster. A
useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OP ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. New¬
ton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of the Travels
and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev. J. Murray Spear, is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMS HIP, by Thomas R. Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Personal Expe¬
riences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a Gentleman of Education
and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier, 2s.
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Serjeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM NOT
ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of this little pam¬
phlet : There is in it a good deal of genuine good feeling, sound common
sense, and deep thought.” 6d,
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by Hudson
Tuttle.- 2d.
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELEBRATED
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie Doten; 4. Mr.
Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late Mr. William White; 7. Dr.
Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M. Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs.
Conant. —
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY WARD
BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), is. each. .... asawiaA dqeaob
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-sweet, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Oasson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hiiton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
HE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
Experiences of hafed, prince of Persia!
Communications in Trance through MR. DAVID DUGUID. With
Introduction and Appendix.
The Subscriber, in response to oft-repeated and earnest request, pro¬
poses to publish these Communications, the accumulation of the last five
years, so Soon as the Subscription List indicates that they are wanted by
the Spiritual community.
The proposed volume will extend to not less than 550 demy 8vo. pages
(the size of the Spiritual Magazine or Human Nature), and will contain,
besides the Experiences of Hafed, about 500 Answers to Questions, many
of these on subjects of the greatest interest; Communications from
Hermes, once an Egyptian priest, afterwards a personal follower of Jesus;
an Introduction, in which is given, along with some explanatory informa¬
tion, an account of the Mediumship of Mr. David Duguid, the Glasgow
Painting Medium; and an Appendix, containing very many interesting
communications from Ruisdal and Steen, the old Dutch masters—Copies
of Direct Writings in Hebrew, Greek/ Latin, and English—and a Brief
Statement of the Extraordinary Phenomena occurring under Mr. Duguid’s
mediumship.
The volume will be illustrated by 24 Lithograph Pictures, being fac¬
similes of Direct Drawings, the work of the Spirit Artists at sittings spe¬
cially appointed for their production. (For specimens of these see Spiritual
Magazine and Human Nature for May.) Various facsimiles of Direct
Writings will also be given in the body of the work and in the copious
appendix. •"
The book, which will be got up in the neatest and most substantial style,
will be sent to subscribers free for 10s. Subscribers for 6 copies will
receive 7 copies for the price of 6.
It is respectfully requested that, in the meantime, Subscribers’ Names
and Addresses be sent without delay to Mrs. Evbritf, Lillian-villa, Hen-
dou, N.W ; or to Mr. T. Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston.
n the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in the
tenth state.
Contents.
CHAP. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Eongdom of God.
„ 6.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Placets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Argelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb.-- Part II.
,, 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
,, 15.—The Lost Orb. Parc III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
.thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL,
69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER,
who has kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
Printed for .the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish Of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Arden, Ave Maria-lane London E.O,
