Registered as a Newspaper.]
$>[©
0^ f^YdSo^OG^ICiS^
#Itef toiflj Spitttttalhm m <&tml §nl™»
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG : 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE : Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME : Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES : British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE : 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: g6, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 251.—(VOL. X.—No. 24.) LONDON: FRIDAY, JUNE 15, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontentg.
Persistence of Type in Spiritual Manifestations 277
“Matter through Matter.” By 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci,
Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at "Westminster
Hospital ... ... ...   ... ... 277
The Abolition of Cabinets ...   ... ... 278
An Authentic Apparition  278
How the Davenport Brothers were Tested in New Zealand 278
An Easy Mode of Extending Spiritualism:—The Influence
of the Recent Persecution of Mediums—How to Try
Remarkable Experiments at Home 279
The Psychological Society of GreatBritain:—The Ultimate
Constitution of Matter—The Recognition of Psycho¬
logical Facts—Warnings of Death and Danger 280
Mr. Peebles in Australia  281
Dr. Eugene Crowell  281
Stone-Throwing by Spirits in Australia. By A. Mueller,
M.D. ...  282
The Late Mr. James Wason 283
Property Recovered through a Spirit Message  283
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the
Council     283
CorrespondenceA Curious Circumstance connected with
a Cedar Pencil—Speculations—Metaphysics and Ma¬
terialism—Spirit Identity — Vegetarianism — Trance
Mediumshipr    ... ... 284
A Spirit Message    288
Paragraphs:—The Spiritual Scientist, 279; Dr. Slade’s
Proposal, 279: Dr. George Wyld, 279; The Davenport
Brothers, 281; Dr. Slade, 281; Spiritualism in Old¬
ham, 281; Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage, 283 ; Spiritual¬
istic Soiree, 283; Spiritualism in Liverpool 287
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
nPHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
JL oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe: it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. E- Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness pHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. 0. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier ofthe Orderof St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India) ;
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman : Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “ Life of Swedenborg ”1; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ” ; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.8.A.; Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton, F.RG.S.;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.B.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
hury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles :(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,'M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United .Kingdom, 10s. lOd.;
to the United States and Australia, 13s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places:—
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Oorso. Naples: Bridsh Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, Russell-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U;S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No 1010 Seventh-street.
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualisi News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W,C.
April, 1877.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for June, 1877.
Friday, 8th.—Seance for Members and Inquirers, at 8 p m.
Mr. C. E. Williams, medium.
Saturday, 9th.—Trance seance, at 3 p.m. Mr. E. W. Wallis,
medium. Subject to be chosen by the
audience.
Monday, llth.—Fortnightly Meeting, at 7.30 p.m. Paper
by Signor Rondi, on “The Training and
Treatment of Mediums.’’ Free to members
and their friends.
Tuesday, T2th.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ „ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m. Business:
Election of President, Vice-Presidents, and
other officers.
Friday, \5th.—Seance for Members and Inquirers, at 8
p.m. Mr. C. E. Williams, medium.
N.B.—All applications for admission to seances should be
made to the secretary some time in advance. Inquirers are
admitted free by a written recommendation from a member.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
Members have the privilege of attending seances with well-
known mediums, and are entitled to the use of books on
Spiritualism from the Library.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, HON. Sec.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.
SOCIABLE EVENINGS.
Every Monday Evening throughout the year, at 8 p.m., at the
Langham Hall, Great Portland-street, for the benefit of Mrs.
Weldon’s Orphanage. The first Concert took place on Monday
evening, November 6, 1876.
Stalls (a limited number), 5s. each; centre seats, area (a
limited number), 2s. 6d. each. Admission. Is. Transferable
tickets, for a series of three months: stalls, £2 2s. ; centre
seats, area, £1 Is.; unreserved seats, 10s. 6d. Mrs. Weldon
earnestly solicits subscriptions, donations, or old clothes
towards the increase of her Orphanage, which she started
eight years ago, and which has, till now, been supported
entirely by herself. Mrs. Weldon has been obliged, for want
of a larger income, to refuse as many as five forsaken children
in one week. Tickets may be obtained, and subscriotions,
donations, &c., received by Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, London, W.C.
MESMERISM AND ITS PHENOMENA.
The new and slightly abridged edition of
ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
By the late Wm. Gregory, F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry
at Edinburgh University,
Will be out in a few days, price 5s., or 5s. 6d. post free; or
five copies post free for 21s. Subscribers will be supplied with
early copies, in the rotation in which their orders and remit¬
tances are sent. Copies may also be had bound in half calf,
with marbled edges, price 8s. 6d. per volume, post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
WORKS BY EDWARD MAITLAND.
Tales’of the Intuitions, in one volume each, uniform,
price 7s. 6d. I. The Pilgrim and the Shrine. II. Higher Law: a
romance. III. By-aud-By: an historical romance of the
future. Tinsley Brothers, Publishers.—IV. Price 2s. 6d.,
Jewish Literature and Modem Education; or, the Use and
Misuse of the Bible in the Schoolroom. V. The Keys of the
Creeds, 5s. Trubner & Co.—VI. Price 12s., England and
Islam; or, the Counsel of Caiaphas. A book for the times,
present and to come. Tinsley Brothers.
The SPIRITS’ BOOK,, containing the
Principles of SPIRITIST DOCTRINE on the Immor¬
tality of the Soul, &c., &c., according to the Teachings of
Spirits of High Degree transmitted through various Mediums.
Collected and set in order by Allan Kardko. Translated by
Anna Blackwell. Crown 8vo., pp. 512, cloth, 7s. 6d.
The trapped medium | or, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.S.,and hisassistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d : post free, Gjd. SpiritmHst newspaper
branch office.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
established 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
Pp'R’csrmrKr'T
HENRY D. JENCKEN,' ESQ., M.R.I.
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts aflecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The fust Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have' the privilege of attending, the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spirituabst newspapers and magazines aro
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances," and libraiy catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership .•—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s, All subscriptions payablein advance
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Thursdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will he thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire
IRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
Publishing Office: 13, Red Lion-court, Fleet-street,
London, E.C.
T
HE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional literature, drama,
music, sports, &c. Chas. L. Wellsden, Editor and Proprietor,
1, Castledine-road, Anerley, S.E. 
the holborn restaurant,
218, HIGH HOLBORN.
One of the Sights and one of the Comforts of London.
Attractions of the Chief Parisian Establishments, with the
quiet and order essential to English Customs.
Dinners and Lunches from Daily Bill of Fare.
A Table de Hote at Separate Tables, every evening in the
Grand Salon, the Prince’s Salon, and the Duke’s Salon.
From 6 to 8.30, 3s. 6d.
Including two soups, two kinds of fish, two entries, joints,
sweets, cheese (in variety), salad, &c., with ices and dessert.
This favourite Dinner is accompanied by a Selection of hiyh-
c/(tss Instrumental Music,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 15, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander CalderEsq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn. Ohar’es, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
FItz-Gerald, Mrs., W, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdongall,21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Hrnywood, Mrs., 52, Warwlck-square, S.W.
Jtmcken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrlster-at-law, 96, Portland-place. w.
Itogers, E. D . Uose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope TempIeman.M.D.,Douglas House, iS.Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armflold, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd.,New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E P , Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
BInney, F A.,24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester-
Brown, .Tames, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H , 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningaie, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.O.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbr.ugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. II.. 7. Oberstein-road. New AVandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Oerald, DesmondG.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.AV.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Green, G. F., 17, Vicarage-gardens, Plumstead.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-cescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park. S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.AV.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred. E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Lowe, Mrs., 64, Berners-street, W-
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, AVm. Bryham, 1, King-souaro, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, AV. D., 20, Tredegar-road. Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. AVarwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Moses, Rev w. Stainton, M.A., University College, N.W.
Nosworfhy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, AVaterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbouid, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, lficliard,8, Fassett-road. Dalston, E.
Pearson, C., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Rehrers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Stra va-dge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcllffe-gardens, AVest Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs. O. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granvilie-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. V.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Malda-vale, w.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Tlemlock-house .Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., care of A. Calder, Esq , 1, Hereford-
square, West Brompton, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss Hi, 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
With all, Bt, 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.AV.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyie-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. K. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Correep mding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdj€ Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstuhbe, 29, Rue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksasof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh,26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A. •
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britien, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W Llndesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2B, Leipsic, Germany.”
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leym'arie, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,198, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson. Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes; Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2. Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Bev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq-, 9, Moutgomery-piaee, Boston, U.S.A.
-M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de i’Unlon, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan,Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.»,Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 64, Denbigh-street. Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, COwley-road, Brixton, S. W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Uervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—EJ Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1877.
President.—'William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—John Priest, Esq.
Secretary.—Mr. Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Auditors.—Mr. Charlton and Mr. Chatham.
Trustees.—Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
James Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos-
worthy, Mrs. Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Mr. Casson, Mr.
Davies, Mr. Foden, Mr. Fowler. Mr. Jones, Mr. A. Lamont,
Mr. J. Lamont, Mr. Norris, Mr. Richard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
8.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877.
A CLOUD OF WITNESSES.”—A Per¬
manent Ink Photograph of an Extraordinary Spirit
Drawing, containing several hundred faces and figures, done
through the mediumship of a lady. Size 7in. by 5in. Copies
2s. each, on application to Mr. Wm. Gill, 154, Marine Parade,
Brighton,   \
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
The. long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should he made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. C. Burke
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street. London. W.O.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London; /Spiritmtfst Newspaper Branch Office.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
Cl, LAMB’S -CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctually. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, hut Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
EW. WALLIS, Trance Medium, desires
engagements to deliver public or private addresses, in
Loudon or the provinces. Address, 15, bt. Peter’s-road, Mile
End, London, E.
MR. J. W. FLETCHER, Clairvoyant and
Trance Medium, No. 14, Southampton-row. Seances
attended at residence if desired. At home 11 to 5.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (thirty years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at
his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hil), Kensington
WJ. COLVILLE, Inspirational Speaker,
• will deliver Orations and Poems to public or
private audiences in any part of the United Kingdom. For all
particulars address to him at Eagle House, 14, Sillwood-road
Brighton.
TL. HENLY, Mesmerist, 5, St. James’s-
• terrace, Notting-hill. “ Your treatment of insanity is
excellent.”—George Wyld, M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place,
Hyde-park, to whom reference is permitted.
"RS. PARKER Lectures on all Social
Reform Subjects, and attends Drawing Room Dis¬
cussions. Now at Pekin House, 11, Elizabeth-place, Jersey.
Hours from 12 to 5.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &o. Address, “Spiritualist," 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade. 
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recenthi produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
by william h. Harrison.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly seientiflo spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, wichout any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task iiself ? To those who are un ■
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit ■world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
Hews
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
The food that we live on. in-
struetive, astonishing, true. A POEM of five hundred
lines. Composed and designed by Sir Charles laham, Bart.
Including some Vegetarian Society fly-sheets. Price Is. Sold
for the benefit of the society, and obtainable of Sir Charles
Ishana, Lamport Hall, Northampton.
$ |i^go|| of yjiijjr^s of % pg|gt| atift of
Volujvie Tejh. Kumber Twenty-fouf\.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JUNE 15th, 1877.
PERSISTENCE OF TYPE IN SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS, j
The nature of the spiritual manifestations evolved at any
circle at which a partly developed medium is present, is
considerably under the guidance of the sitters, for if they
express pleasure at receiving a particular kind of manifesta¬
tion and indifference to another kind, those at the root of
the matter do their best to evolve the phenomena most
desired. The desire, however, should be within the compass
of the powers of the medium; a good trance medium is
rarely a powerful physical medium; those manifestations
only are easily developed at desire which have first been
presented in an incipient form through the mediumship of
one whose powers are not fully developed.
When the development of a medium is complete, the type
of the manifestations he obtains is persistent. When Mr.
Morse recently lectured in the trance state before the Na¬
tional Association of Spiritualists, we asked the controlling
powers whether they could now give the proofs of spirit
identity through his mediumship, which they did in his
younger days, as recorded in the first volume of The
Spiritualist. Their reply was that at that time the desired
phase of mediumship might have been retained and per¬
fected, but that inspirational public speaking had been
developed in place thereof; if they, the controlling spirits,
were to try now to use his organism to give frequent evi¬
dence of identity, it would cause a dangerous disturbance of
his state of mind and body. Mr. Wallis, like Mr. Morse,
at the outset was able sometimes to give evidence of spirit
identity, but the public demand has drawn him from that
phase of mediumship into the groove of an inspirational
speaker. Persistence of type is seen in the manifestations
obtained by Mr. Williams, which are almost the same from
one year’s end to another, but are evolved as time goes on
with greater precision. The changes in them are slow, and
upon the same lines as those previously evolved. This
sameness, this persistence of type of the manifestations, is
seen in connection with all remarkable mediums who have
constantly used their powers for five or six years.
A knowledge of these facts is of practical use. A me¬
dium is now much wanted in London who can show with
precision a few simple elementary phenomena in daylight.
Mrs. Mary Marshall’s powers were excellent in this respect;
it was scarcely possible to take anybody to her daylight
seances without their witnessing something which they could
not explain. Sometimes Mr. Marshall would play his fiddle
at one end of the room, while a little table with nobody
touching it would dance to the tune, and make an occasional
“run” at the bewildered spectator, who usually left the
scene in a nervous state with much of his assurance taken
out of him. Such phenomena as these, much as we want
them now, cannot readily be obtained—if they can be
obtained at all—from mediums whose powers have already
been developed in other directions, hence we advise all those
who have undeveloped but powerful mediums under their
care, to be careful in selecting the path in which progress
shall be made, for later on it cannot easily be quitted. Just
at the present time the public want, in connection with
physical mediumship, a few simple but unanswerable
phenomena in daylight 5 in connection with trance medium-
ship they desire evidence of spirit identity to the extent of
the revelation of provable particulars known to the alleged
communicating spirit, but never previously known to the
medium or to any member of the circle.
In the House of Lords, June 9th, Lord Jersey informed Lord Enfield
that if it were necessary the vacancy caused by the death of Mrs.
Nassau Senior, who had been specially appointed to inquire into the
condition of the inmates of pauper and workhouse schools, would be
filled up.
“ MATTER TROUGH MATTER.”
BY C. CARTER BLAKE, DOC. SCI., LECTURER ON COMPARATIVE ANATOMY AT
WESTMINSTER HOSPITAL.
The expression has so often of late been used amongst
Spiritualists of the “ passage of matter through matter,”
\ | that I venture respectfully to ask some of those whose per-
! ception transcends my limited powers, what they themselves
]! mean by the phrase ? If, to me, it conveys no idea what-
| ever, it doubtless proceeds from my incapacity to compre-
j | bend their meaning. Let me show that such incapacity was
(| shared in by many of the world's great thinkers.
| Aristotle thought that matter was incognisable in itself
; I “ 7) vkr) a<yvaaTO<s Ka& avrrjv.” {Metaphysics^ lib. vii. (vi.)
| c. 10).
11 This idea of the relativity of our conception of matter,
) | and the actuality of our perception of its accidents alone,
11 formed the groundwork of all mediaeval philosophy. I
! merely select a few examples for illustration. I can give a
| hundred.
I St. Augustine regarded matter as incorporeal, and as
| i f| quiddam inter formatum et nihil, nec formatum nec nihil,
j| informeprope nihil.” {Confessiones, lib. xii., c. 6.)
He further says: “ Materiam Spiritumque cognoscendo
! ignorari, et ignorando cognosci.” I give this quotation from
i memory, as, through illness, I cannot lay my hands on the
! reference. To those who may say that I am merely quoting
| metaphysicians of the Catholic school, I will give a quota-
| tion from a wit and a blasphemer. Scaliger may be
| admitted pro hdc vice, as a philosopher whose argument
| i will run on all fours with my own. He says: “ Sub-
| stantice non a nobis cognoscuntur, sed earum. accidentio.
| Quis enim me doceat quid sit substantia, nisi miseris illis
| verbis, res subsistens ?” (Scaliger, De Subtilitate, Ex.
! cccvii., § 21.)
i It may be observed that the word “substance” is used
! here precisely in the Aristotelian sense. Aquinas himself
| | could not have put the difficulty better. In fact, if we make
I matter corporeal, we may take our philosophy from Hudibras,
11 and guess
/ i Where entity and quiddity,
(| The ghosts of defunct bodies fly.
j Two senses exist undoubtedly in which the passage of
Ip matter through matter may be conceived in a certain gross
| and slipshod manner. The first is when a nail is driven
j through a board, and when the wood adjacent to the nail is
I displaced to make way for the iron ; the second is when two
! fluids containing fine attenuated parts of matter are subject
j to the laws of endosmosis or exosmosis. But I conceive
j that neither of these senses is the one in which the expres-
II sion “ passage of matter through matter” is wished to be
)! understood. I have often had the idea that what is really
i| meant is the passage of “ form” (considered as an accident
| of matter) through the “ form” of the board or cabinet.
| But perhaps I misunderstand the signification of the pro-
| position. And it must not be forgotten that if such a state
| of things should really exist, the “ matter” of the medium’s
| ’ body must be denuded of one at least of its accidents in
| order to produce such a condition. It may, however, throw
| a light on the apparently shapeless appearance of the
j medium when the “ form” is at a distance from his body—a
| fact which has been certified by trustworthy observers.
The proposition, therefore, stands that something of which
| we have and can have no knowledge passes through another
I something of which we have and can have no knowledge.
I To maintain the affirmative of this is surely to land the
i inquirer into the midst of agnosticism.
If some definite ideas could be conceived of what is. really
I meant, Mr. 0. 0. Massey’s object expressed last week “ to
j come to a clear understanding with ourselves about pheno-
278
THE SPIRITUALIST,
mena which are still doubtful” would be attained. But |||
unless we have some common language, by which we can j |
understand the thoughts of others as they wish us to com- | |
prehend them, we shall for ever be in a state of doubt and I j
confusion. j j
THE ABOLITION OF CABINETS. ' j I
At the recent public meetings of the members of the i j
National Association of Spiritualists, an almost unanimous j j
desire was expressed for the abolition of cabinets, for scarcely I )
a single manifestation has been produced by their aid, which | I
has not, with strong mediums, been now and then evolved j j
without them. Seances in the light are in demand, and a j i
few small but answerable manifestations, are felt to be better j I
than many of the more advanced phenomena produced under m
doubtful conditions at circles at which any inquirer or j j
uninformed person is present. Any medium who could now j j
obtain in daylight the strong elementary manifestations once j j
so splendidly given through the mediumship of Mrs. Mary j j
Marshall, would obtain more engagements than any other. j !
Mr. J. M. Peebles has sent us a copy of the Melbourne I j
Daily Herald, of March 26th, containing a report of a I j
lecture delivered by him in the Melbourne Opera House, j j
The report sets forth that when speaking of materialisation j !
phenomena, he acknowledged that there was a doubt j !
because of the existence of the cabinet. However, he was |
fortunate enough last September to witness spirit materiali- j j
sation without any suspicious adjuncts. He was on a visit j |
to the South, when he came to a city where was a great | |
materialisation medium^JBdrs. Miller. This lady took a walk ! j
with several gentlemen into the forest,-and selecting a clear | I
space, there made several passes over the ground, and j j
became entranced. It was a clear, starlit night, and Mr. j j
Peebles saw several spirits arise and converse with Mrs. I
Miller. There could be no deception here, argued the j |
lecturer, as there were no means of deception. This was in I j
Memphis, Tennessee. * i |
If Mrs. Miller can obtain this manifestation with regu- j !
larity and precision, she had better come to England. jj
AN AUTHENTIC APPARITION.
A writer in the current number of the Church Quarterly j j
Review vouches for the following marvellous incident:—
The fact is that this class of what are called “ghost i j
stories” is so numerous, and so thoroughly well authenticated, j j
that the hesitation would rather be as to whether they be | |
properly SMjpmiatural at all. We mean that the question | |
arises whether it may not be possible in the nature of things j j
—under certain circumstances—for the departing spirit to ] I
manifest itself to distant friends at the instant, the fleeting ! |
moment of transition from this world to the other ? If any | !
one replies, If so, why is it not even more common? our j !
answer is easy. There are numbers of things quite natural ! !
which are much more uncommon than the well-ascertained ) |
instances of this class of events. In the house in which j |
these pages are written a tall and wide staircase window, i j
with a northern aspect, throws a strong side-light on the j j
entrance into the chief living room, which stands at the end j |
of a passage running nearly the length of the house. It ! j
was after mid-day, in mid-winter, many years since, that the j j
writer left his study, which opens into the passage just j j
mentioned, on his way to his early dinner. The day was j |
rather foggy, but there was no density of vapour, yet the j j
door at the end of the passage seemed obscured by mist. I |
As he advanced, the mist, so to call it, gathered into one ! !
spot, deepened, and formed itself into the outline of a | |
human figure, the head and shoulders becoming more and | |
more distinct, while the rest of the body seemed enveloped j |
in a gauzy, cloak-like vestment of many folds, reaching | j
downwards so as to hide the feet, and from its width, as it j j
rested on the flagged passage, giving a pyramidal outline, j j
The full light of the window fell on the object, which was so | I
thin and tenuous in its consistency that the light on the | |
panels of a highly varnished door was visible through this j j
lower part of the dress. It was altogether colourless, a | |
statue carved in mist. The writer was so startled that he is | |
uncertain whether he moved forward or stood still. He was ^
June 15, 1877.
rather astonished than terrified, for his first notion was that
he was witnessing some hitherto unnoticed effect of light
and shade. He had no thought of anything supernatural,
till, as he gazed, the head was turned toward him, and he at
once recognised the features of a very dear friend. The
expression of his countenance was that of holy, peaceful
repose, and the gentle, kindly aspect which it wore in daily
life was intensified (so the writer, in recalling the sight, has
ever since felt) into a parting glance of deep affection. And
then, in an instant, all passed away. The writer can only
compare the manner of the evanescence to the way in which
a jet of steam is dissipated on exposure to cold air. Hardly,
till then, did he realise that he had been brought into close
communion with the supernatural. The result was great
awe, but no terror, so that instead of retreating to his study,
he went forward and opened the door close to which the
apparition had stood. Of course he could not doubt the
import of what he had seen, and the morrow’s or the next
day’s post brought the tidings that his friend had tranquilly
passed out of this world at the time when he was seen by
the writer. It must be stated that it was a sudden summons;
that the writer had heard nothing of him for some weeks
previously, and that nothing had brought him to his thoughts
on the day of his decease.
HOW THE DAVENPORT BROTHERS WERE TESTED IN
NEW ZEALAND.
The Davenport Brothers have left Australia, and by last
accounts were in New Zealand. We have received a copy of
the Otaga Guardian, bearing date of March 17th, which sets
forth in a strong light a recent victory gained by them in
Dunedin. The account opens as follows :—
H We do not remember to have witnessed an audience more
intensely excited and interested in the result of any per¬
formance, than was that assembled in the Princesses Theatre
last night. The occasion was the acceptance by the Davenport
Brothers of the challenge made by Captain Barry—viz.,
that he would lay a sum of fifty pounds that he would so
tie the Brothers that they would not unloose themselves.”
The house was crowded ; Captain Barry tied the “ Boys ”
outside the cabinet, in full sight of the audience, making a
perfect web work of rope around each, and afterward
“ mooring ” them to the seats of the cabinet, which he first
had sealed, so that he might be satisfied they were not false
or moveable ones. Fifty-four minutes were occupied in doing
so, and then he stated to the people :—
“ If they get out of that, without undoing it with their
teeth, between now and five weeks, they will do well, and
they must have some outside agency of which I know nothing.
I have been tying knots in this country for forty-two years,
and I assure you if those two gentlemen get out, there is no
one on this side the line will tie them securely.”
The result we give in the language of the Guardian:—
“ The cabinet doors were then closed, and scarcely had
they been so when the musical instruments began to play
and the bells to ring, a fact which effectually disposes of the
hypothesis that the Brothers slip their hands from their
fastenings in order to set the instruments in motion. The
cabinet being opened and reclosed, the excitement, as the
time flew, began to heighten. In seven minutes twenty
seconds the first hand appeared at the peep-hole of the
cabinet amidst loud applause, a satisfactory proof that at
least one hand was free. In eight minutes forty seconds
two hands appeared, and in twelve minutes thirty-five seconds
the four hands appeared, at which sign the applause was
deafening. From this forward it was only a matter of
time when the remaining knots would be untied.
“ In nineteen minutes forty seconds the doors flew open, and
the Brothers stepped forward free from their bonds, not
freed by merely shaking them off, but with every knot
undone, and the rope perfectly free from tangle. In reply
to Mr. Fay’s request to make any statement, Captain Barry
said: 1 Well, gentlemen, I have had every fair play.
(Applause.) The way I tied those men is a way no other
man this side of the line could tie them. You can take
that for granted. I started with a tom-fool’s knot over the
shoulders and round the neck; I followed this with a slip-
hitch on their wrists, and I put clover-knots and timber-
THE SPIRITUALIST,
279
June 15, 1877.
hitches, and fastened them down with a mooring ; and there |)
mast have been an agency or something outside assisting |)
them to get out of that lot.’ : 1|
“ After the applause had been repeated and had subsided, j)
the usual performance was proceeded with.”—Banner of >
Bight. \ (
AN EASY MODE OF EXTENDING SPIRITUALISM.
THE INFLUENCE OF THE RECENT PERSECUTION OF MEDIUMS. |,
When a new medium of great inspirational or phenomenal 11
power arrives in London from America, drawing much public j1
attention, Spiritualists say—“ This gives great impetus to j <
the progress of the movement.” When an attack is made Ij
by uninformed persons, as in some of the late prosecutions j (
of mediums,-the remark is heard—“This has retarded the I
progress of Spiritualism.” As we can more practically i>
measure the power of such influences by observing their ij
effect upon the rising circulation of The Spiritualist, we can | j
say that both the sayings just quoted have scarcely any | j
foundation in reality ; the assumed good and bad influences I j
are of less potency than considerable changes in the tern- j j
perature of the weather. j j
Why is this? Because the said influences consist of |j
clamour more than anything else, and have no effect what- i)
ever upon any inquirer who sees a solid object rising in the j j
air without being touched, or who obtains the phenomena in j
an experimental stance at home. I j
In like manner, the number of efficient new members of j j
the National Association of Spiritualists elected last year j
was about the same as during the preceding year, showing j j
that the attacks had made no practical difference. Thus I
statistics do not support ideas too hastily formed. The I
progress of the movement is influenced more by seances |j
than by any amount of favourable or unfavourable outside I
clamour. That clamour may stop investigation by some per- U
sons, but it attracts to Spiritualism the attention of others-.
What influence should this knowledge have upon our |
actions ? If a clamorous mob, headed by a fifth-rate man j j
of science, alleged no comet to be in the sky, he and his j
numerous followers would drown the voices of those with it
more knowledge, if the latter entered the lists to fight with |j
talk and noise. The adversaries should be answered neither |j
by tongue nor pen, but sensible disbelievers should quietly jj
be taken into the open air to look at the comet. |j
Washington Irving tells how the members of a repub- |j
lican government spent two nights in angry debate as to j
which branch of the executive ought to brick up a hole in the j j
House of Representatives. A cunning member stopped the |
wordy fray by paying a man to take a hod of bricks and | j
some mortar, and to stop up the hole. Thus was much |j
angry feeling stemmed. In like manner should contention |
about Spiritualism and mediums be avoided, and action |
substituted. j j
To sum up. The real strength of Spiritualism lies far |j
more in its facts than in clamouring about them ; the facts, [)
therefore, should be multiplied by the wholesale dissemina- i j
tion of printed information how to form circles in the homes j j
of private families. A proportion of those who receive the ! j
information will try experiments, and those who obtain the |
phenomena in their own homes will at once irrevocably \\
recognise as impostors or disreputably unsafe guides, those j j
newspapers and individuals who state authoritatively that |j
the facts are not true. To this end we are about to print and j j
sell at slightly over cost price the following instructions how j;
to form circles, and if every Spiritualist makes it binding I j
upon himself to “ drop about ’■ or distribute five hundred of j?
the leaflets, the whole nation will be deluged with useful |j
information, and such a number of mediums will spring up |j
in private families, as to rapidly increase the knowledge of j|
truths calculated to benefit in the highest degree this |j
materialistic, consequently irreligious, age. All this can be jj
done with no trouble or expense worth the name. j)
HOW TO TRY REMARKABLE EXPERIMENTS AT HOME. j)
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by jj
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or stranger ij
to the family present. j)
The assertions of a few newspapers, conjurors, and men of science j j
that the alleged phenomena are jugglery, are proved to be untrue by the i j
fact that the manifestations are readily obtainable by private families, j)
with no stranger present, and without deception by any member of the 1'
family. At the present time there are only about half a dozen pro¬
fessional mediums for the physical phenomena in all Great Britain,
consequently if these were all tricksters (which they are not) they are
so few in number as to be unable to bear out the imposture theory as
the foundation of the great movement of modern Spiritualism. Readers
should protect themselves against any impostors who, knowing to the
contrary, may hereafter tell them that the phenomena are not real, by
trying simple home experiments, which cost nothing, thus learning
how egregiously those are duped who put their trust in worthless
authorities. Moreover, these remarkable phenomena are of the most
striking nature, the most absorbing interest.
Conjurors and their scientific partners cannot produce their results
in a house from which they are excluded, but private families commonly
get the real thing with no strangers present; consequently those who
say that the phenomena are conjuring tricks do not tell the truth.
One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it,
are to be found in every household, and about one new circle in three,
formed according to the following instructions, obtains the phenomena:
1. Let arrangements be made that there shall be no interruption for
one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of three, four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit in subdued light, but sufficient to
allow everything to be seen clearly, round an uncovered wooden table,
with all the palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether
the hands touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any
table will do.
3. Belief or unbelief has no power over the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is frequently found to be a weakening
influence.
4. Before the manifestations begin it is well to engage in general con¬
versation, or in singing, and it is- best that neither should be of a
frivolous nature.
5. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling
like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will
probably be table-tiltings or raps.
6. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to the table as to
an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps
mean “ Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful;” and ask
whether the arrangement is understood. If three signals be given in
answer, then say, “If I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will
you signal every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a
message ?” Should three signals be given, set to work on the plan
proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
7. Possibly symptoms of other forms of mediumship, such as trance
or clairvoyance, may develop; the better class of messages, as judged by
their religious and philosophical merits, usually accompany trance and
clairvoyant manifestations, rather than the more objective phenomena.
After the manifestations are obtained, the observers should not go to the
other extreme, and give way to an excess of credulity, but should
believe no more about them, or the contents of the messages, than they
are forced to do by undeniable proof.
Some of the above instructions are quoted from The Spiritualist news¬
paper (established* 1869), price 2jd. post free, published weekly, by E.
W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
The few mistakes the well-managed National Association of Spirit¬
ualists has made in its career, have almost invariably been due to not
insisting upon a month’s notice before considering important questions.
Only in cases of great and serious danger, demanding a special meeting,
should the rule on this head be capable of being set aside.
The “ Spiritual Scientist.”—The Spiritual Scientist of Boston
comes to hand at our office in a most irregular way. For three weeks it
did not arrive at all, after which two numbers only for each of those
weeks arrived in one parcel, so subscribers have not been supplied.
With one exception, the Banner of Light, from the same town, has
arrived with regularity for eight years, so the irregularities connected
with the Scientist do not appear to be the fault of the postal authorities.
Dr. Slade’s Proposal.—In addition of the subscriptions already an¬
nounced towards advertising Dr. Slade’s proposal, we have received
from T. £1, Mr. J. C. Eno, 10s., and Madame de Steiger 5s. But the
amounts will be returned, for the Times, Telegraph, and Daily News
have refused to insert the advertisement. The Telegraph alleges that
“ it might be objectionable to Professor Lankester,” which is true
enough, for he is not likely to approve anything tending to show him to
be wrong. Handbills and leaflets are cheap, and by their means, if it is
worth the trouble, any committee could at a cheap rate put a stop to the
publication of one-sided news in daily papers. A judicious placard on
the back of a sandwich-man in front of every daily newspaper office
would have a moral influence.
Dr. Georoe Wyld.—In the Times of the 1st of .June some corre¬
spondence is published, copied from the Lancet, which has taken place
between Dr. Richardson, F.R.S., a distinguished member of the old
School of Medical Science, and Dr. George Wyld, vice-president of the
British Homceopathy Society, which is likely to lead to a better under¬
standing than has hitherto existed between these two schools of
medicine. Dr. Richardson speaks of Dr. Wyld as “a gentleman of
extended knowledge, good taste, and truthful nature.” Dr. Wyld is a
vice-president of the British National Association of Spiritualists ; his
“truthful nature” was never exhibited to greater advantage than
when he stepped out of his way to help a stranger who had been
wrongfully accused by a Fellow of the Royal Society. Dr. Wyld not
only became bail for Dr. Slade, but he gave evidence in the police-
court of the most decided and truthful character, of the innocence of
this unfortunate victim of scientific ignorance and popular prejudice,
280
tHE SPIRITUALIST,
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
Ox Thursday, last week, at the usual fortnightly meeting of the
Psychological Society, at ll,Chaiidos-street, Cavendish-square, London,
Mr. Serjeant Cox presided.
THE ULTIMATE CONSTITUTION OP MATTER.
Mr, Stainton-Moses read the following letter from Mr. James Croll,
F.R.S.E., to which letter reference had been made at a former
meeting
Jordanbank, Edinburgh, May 4,1S77.
Dear Sir,—I have read with much interest and pleasure in The Spiritualist
of last week your remarks in opening the debate upon the paper read by Mr.
Serjeant Cox on “ The Determination of Molecular Motion.” Permit me to
refer to a trifling misapprehension. You mention that I have stated that we
know nor can know nothing about the constitution of matter. “ Mr. Croll,” you
say, “ asks what is the constitution of matter, and says, I do not know. No
one knows. No one can know.’ ” I am not aware of having ever expressed
such an opinion. If I have, it must have been done inadvertently, for I
have long held pretty decided opinions in reference to the constitution of
matter. In my little book on Theism, published twenty years ago, I entered
at some length into the metaphysics of the subject, and endeavoured to show
that the prevailing conception of impenetrable solidity is a mere assumption,
and that a proper analysis leads to the conclusion that matter must consist of
centres of force. Also in a short paper on the “ Constitution of Matter,” in the
Philosophical Magazine for December, 1867, I have advocated the same
views. I may state that although I have used the terms “ centres of force,”
yet I have always believed that matter in its innermost nature is dynamical.
I would not have troubled you with these remarks, had it not been to show
that my views on the nature of matter are much nearer what you have your¬
self expressed, than you had supposed them to be. James Croll.
Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A.
THE recognition op psychological facts.
Mr. F. K. Muntou announced that the annual dinner of the members
of the Society had been adjourned until the beginning of the next
session, and that the next meeting of the Society had been adjourned
from the 21st to the 28th June. He then read a paper by Mr. Charles
Bray upon the nature of Matter and Mind.
The Rev. W. Staiuton-Moses, M.A., said : There seems to be some
analogy between the labour of Sisyphus and that imposed on us who
try to bring home to certain classes of mind the unwelcome truths with
which this paper deals. That unfortunate man was condemned to roll
a stone up-hill only to find it again at the bottom when he paused to
take rest. It is much the same with these facts'. When any of them
are brought forward they are usually received with a stare of surprise,
as though such a thing had never been heard of before. Now I protest
against this treatment as unfair. These facts, though occurring in the
experience of comparatively few, are paralleled by records in all ages,
amongst all peoples, and by the experiences of numberless individuals
in all states and conditions of life. Their word is not assailed on other
subjects—it is not directly assailed on this. But when they come
forward, at risk of ridicule and obloquy, to record experiences which
by their very nature must be intimately personal, they find that though
their record would suffice to hang a man if they chanced to be witness
in a murder case, it is not weighty enough here to establish the existence
of one poor ghost, or the sound of a voice which has not reached the
critics’ ears. That seems to be the rub. These voices, according to the
President and Mr. Gordon—I don’t quite know whether they agree
together—are non-existent because they appealed to the inner sense of
one person only. They are f* mental impressions ” : that is to say, man
hears by the outer ear, and anything that can so make him hear would
be heard also by others. Man sees by the eye, and if a ghost were
really present others would see it too. This argument sets aside alto¬
gether the fact that what the President calls supersensuous perception
is not entirely unknown to us. We have interior senses as well as the
exterior, and though some of us have never yet discovered their use
others have, and the records that prove their existence and use are too
numerous and weighty for any fair mind, fairly informed, to set them
aside. Moreover, this mode of argument entirely ignores the internal
evidence of truth that runs through these records. Whether the
voice speaks, or whether it is a mental impression; whether the
ghost is an objective fact, or a subjective impression, is a matter of
secondary moment. In almost all cases, where such visitations
occur, some facts, warning, information, or the like are communicated,
and these are verifiable, and in numerous cases are and have been
verified. If they be mental impressions you have only driven the
argument a step further back. Whence came the information ? how
given 1 But, as a matter of fact, when our critics have once in their
own proper persons seen their ghost and heard their voice speaking to
their inner selves, they would know what they do not know now, that
man is a spirit with inner senses as well as outer, and they would have
no further difficulty in believing the experiences of others. This
carries me a step on my way. Protesting (1) against meeting every
new record as though it dealt with facts isolated and unparalleled, I
protest (2) against making each man’s personal knowledge the measure
of what may be. “ I never saw, heard, or knew it; therefore it is not
true,” is a dangerous form of argument, for if it be persisted in and
carried out to its logical conclusion, in the end the standard will be the
ignorance of the most ignorant. There is no logical halting place, and
you who apply to the unknown the scale of your own experience, will
have no cause for complaint when to you is measured the measure
which you have meted. It is not so in other things. I protest that it
is neither fair nor right that it should be so here. Yet one more
protest I record, thou;h it has been well sustained by Mr. Massey.
I protest (3) against the special treatment that this paper has met with
at the hands of Mr. Gordon. There was an acridity of tone throughout
his comments that did not augur well for impartiality of mind, and a
contemptuous astonishment at the nature of the records, which was
curious (to say the least of it) in a student of psychology. He wielded
the tomahawk with a will, as one who had got his chance, and knew it,
June 15, 1877.
He did not stay to discriminate, so intent was he bn demolishing the
thing root and branch ; he slashed, and hacked, and hewed right and
left, regardless altogether of whether what he was demolishing was
true or false. He did not like it—that was all. The well known and
authenticated fact of lighting gas with the finger-tip in a cold dry air
went the same way as diagnosing an air of melancholy from a letter.
This latter assertion, which, to say truth, is not important, and can
hardly be said to be worth record, drew forth special condemnation.
But the critic neglected to note a really valuable experiment recorded
just above  ‘‘I see a beautiful park in miniature, and an immense
number of little people about three inches high, all dressed out in knee-
breeches and cocked hats like the old knickerbockers.” Dr. Buchanan
had successfully imprinted that vision on his subject’s mind. Here is
a case that surely deserves notice. There are many more of like
nature scattered up and down through the paper, but only those were
pitched upon which afforded material for cheap ridicule. It is no part
of my business to defend the paper. But it is fair to remember that it
was not written for oublication ; it was a private communication, and
Mr. Massey is responsible for its appearance in public. It is certain
that psychological facts will not find their way to us very often if their
reception is to be such as this paper has met with. Such facts are by
their very nature private, and sensitive persons will decline to place
themselves on the operating table to be vivisected. I quite admit, and
should desire to exercise the right of comment and fair criticism, but I
submit that that criticism is one-sided and ill-advised which fastens on
weak places, in order the more readily to wound or turn into ridicule.
Omitting notice of much that is interesting, I note that a great part of
the paper is concerned with the phenomena of supersensuous percep¬
tion, whether by hearing or sight. Voices spoke to the writer, and his
spiritual vision was abnormally quickened. Are we here to deny the
possibility of that ? to adopt the sage dictum of the erudite Forbes
Winslow, that every person who hears these voices is subject to auri¬
cular delusion, and should be taken care of by his friends?—a work
which he, no doubt, will be happy to help them to perform. I should
rather have thought that the investigation of these facts was part of
our raison d'etre. That such things have been from all time of which
we have history is capable of plain proof. The religious records of all
peoples teem with instances, and none can read our own Bible without
stumbling over them again and again. I have no wish to dwell here
on this argument There are many other cases ready to hand. For
instance, I taise you to the life of Swedenborg, and I do so for two
reasons. First, because his visions and previsions were precise, and
cannot be got rid of on the ground of coincidence or other similar
explanation ; and next, because the statements are exact and historical,
and cannot be denied by any fair critic. "Were it not that the author
is present, I should record cases of historic interest that are beyond
doubt. I have collected such, but in view of the interest with which
the society will hear the cross-examination by the President of the
author of the paper, I forbear.
Professor Plumptre said that in his opinion Mr. Gordon had not,
in his remarks, exceeded the limits of just and fair criticism. The
evidence in the paper was not sufficient to show that the facts were
anything more than mental impressions, anything more than the sen¬
sations described in the old ballad—
I see a hand you cannot see,
That beckons me away ;
I hear a voice you cannot hoar,
That bids mo not to stay.
Five or six years ago, he (Professor Plumptre) was spending a night
at Iselipps Manor, with his friend Mr. George Harris, and in the night
heard his youngest son, who was at home, cry “ Papa ! papa ! papa I”
three times, and he was so disturbed by the circumstance that it was
some time before he could sleep, and he told his host of it next day.
If anything unfortunate had happened to his son that night the
incident would have been an admirable illustration of the spirit voice.
The Rev. Julian Young, in his Autobiography, gave some remarkable
cases, difficult of explanation ; for instance, at Brighton, an uncommon
name, which he had never heard before, was so impressed on his mind
that he told his friends of it, and when he returned to town he read in
the Times of the death, at that time, of a person of the same remark¬
able name. Statements of abnormal facts ought to be criticised.
Mr. C. C. Massey : But not subjected to ridicule and derision.
Professor Plumptre : I am not aware that that has been done.
Mr. Gordon : I appeal to the President whether “ ridicule and deri¬
sion ” are fair words to use.
Mr. Massey: I used them advisedly.
Mr. Gordon : I decline personal discussion, but appeal to the
President.
The President: I don’t think you intended them as ridicule and
derision.
Professor Plumptre : They were only fair criticism.
Mr. Thaddeus Hyatt: Had I thought that papers received treatment
such as mine suffered, I would not have sent it to the society, for it
dealt largely with private matters. I had been informed by Mr. Massey
that this society was formed for the investigation of mental and psycho¬
logical phenomena, and I feel as much interest in having my expe¬
riences investigated as anybody; they came to me as unexpectedly as
a comet comes into the sky, and I narrated them to you to add to the
stock of human knowledge, but felt that I was sacrificing my feelings
to promote the general welfare. I thought that you would “ pigeon¬
hole ” them, and that your successors would find out the law if you
were unable to do so. If twelve people who bad such experiences,
had also light-coloured eyes, it might be a little thing, still it would
be worth noting, and such generalisations can only be made after the
careful accumulation of facts. I did not like being charged at your
last meeting with being on the verge of insanity, and I do not think
2&1
June 15, 1877.
THE SPlRlTUAljISt.
th-at many persons will send you their experiences if they are to be
pinned against your scientific walls like butterflies.
WARNINGS OF DEATH AND DANGER.
I was once staying at La Kochelle with my wife, talking about
everyday things, when, five feet off, I saw a vision of a piece of news¬
paper against the chimney back, headed “ Deaths,” and below that
heading was my father’s name. I said to my wife, u Father’s dead,
and we shall get the information in a newspaper—not the Tribune, for
it is not the Tribune type.” Three weeks later I received, I think, the
Neio York Evening Post—anyhow, it was the same paper and type I
had seen in my vision, and contained my father’s name among
the deaths. I challenge and criticise psychological facts like these as
much as anybody, and I have lost a great deal by not attending to
them ; I mean to place more reliance on them in the future.
Mr. Spencer said that a friend of his resided with his brothers in one
af the Philippine Islands, about a mile from the capital, and near the
shore. One of the brothers went out in a boat to collect hemp on a
neighbouring island, and did not return at the proper time. Little was
thought of his absence, for he often stopped away all night when the
weather, as on this occasion, was rough to a slight extent. An
apathetic Indian betrayed unusual signs of agitation, fussed about the
room, and said to one of the brothers, “ Something has happened to
Mr. .” So strong was the impression that the native took a
lantern and went to the beach; the brother followed him, and dis¬
covered his relative washed up on the shore, apparently dead ; he was
afterwards restored. One of the brothers acquainted with this circum¬
stance was now in London. The speaker then proceeded to tell the
already published narrative, how Captain Burton had been seen in
Arabia, and his surroundings described, by a seer who was gazing into
a crystal in London.
The President thought that the difference between those who had
taken different sides over Mr. Hyatt’s paper, was more one of words
than of reality: they none of them objected to those psychical pheno¬
mena which were verified by external proof, but objected to those not
so proved. Those which had been proved were very important, and
the Society was exceedingly indebted to the author for the interesting
facts made known in the paper. He hoped that the gentleman would
favour the Society with some more of his experiences. (Applause.)
Mr. Gordon : If I had known that the author had been in the room
at the time, I should have spoken differently ; it was unfair that such
a mine should have been sprung upon me.
Mr. Massey explained that he was unaware of the presence of the
author until after Mr. Gordon had closed his remarks.
The proceedings then closed.
MR. PEEBLES IN AUSTRALIA.
Mu. J. M. Peebles reached Melbourne March 8th, and at the first
public meeting he attended, announced his intention of visiting England
towards the close of this his second tour round the world to observe
the progress of Spiritualism in different countries. On the last Sunday
in March he lectured on Spiritualism to two thousand people, in the
Opera House, at Melbourne. We extract the following from the
Australasian
“ About four years ago, when the discussion about the evidences of
Spiritualism was at its height, and when Spiritualist practices were
dabbled in by a large number of private circles, I went on one Sunday
evening to the Opera House to hear the Spiritualist lecturer from
America, Mr. J. M. Peebles. On last Sunday evening I went again.
What I wanted to see on the second occasion, as on the first, was the
audience. The second time especially, I wanted to compare the extent
and character of the audience now, when the excitement of novelty and
expectation has gone by, with the congregation which Mr. Peebles
drew together when these elements were actively working in his favour.
And I am bound to say that the audience far surpassed my anticipations.
The theatre, so far as I could see, was crammed full in every part, and
the dress circle, to which admission was by purchased ticket, was
crowded. The assemblage was a highly respectable and decorous one.
It appeared to me to contain people nominally belonging to all the
various creeds, and also many belonging to none. Those present would,
I should say, compare very favourably in point of intelligence with any
congregation at that hour sitting in Melbourne. They would certainly
compare well so far as respects attention paid to the lecturer, and I
question if any preacher in the city was addressing an assemblage so
thoroughly wide awake and mentally active as this one. Moreover, it
was to a certain extent closely sympathetic with the speaker. Especially
his hits at the clergy, or at any of the doctrines of orthodoxy—which
did not go beyond good-natured satire—were received with evidence of
marked concurrence. Finally it was, I believe, a liberal audience in
regard to its pecuniary contributions, and the plate which I passed in
coming out of the building was collecting coin at a rate, perhaps, not
often realised even in our most wealthy and fashionable churches.
What were the precise feelings which brought the audience together I
had, of course, no means of deciding. To what extent it shared the
opinions represented by the lecturer, or to what extent it was composed
of people who in religious matters felt themselves wholly adrift, and
were merely sounding this ground to see if it would afford them safe
anchorage I could not say. But on any view of the case, the act of
such an audience coming together to listen to a man who is not now a
stranger in Melbourne is one of some significance. When we consider
the ‘ phenomena ’ of Spiritualism, surely this is a phenomenon worthy
of some consideration.”
^ Mr. Colville will probably give a trance address in Oldham next
Sunday.
DR. EUGENE CROWELL.
The Eeligio-Philosophical Journal publishes the following particulars
about Mr. Eugene Crowell, M,D., of New York, whose standard work
on Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism is one of the best
text-books on the subject ever printed :—
**■ Dr. Crowell was born in New York in 1817, and consequently is in
his sixtieth year. His father was a Methodist clergyman, and he
received a religious culture which evinces itself in his writings. He
graduated as a physician in 1848 at the University of New York. In
1851 he went to California, where he remained until 1868. Since then
he has resided in Brooklyn, having retired from practice, in which his
intuitive perception of disease, combined with his thorough attainments
in medical science, made him eminently successful as a physician. He
returned to his home from the Golden State after nearly twenty years
devoted to the welfare of humanity, leaving a wide circle of warm
friends, and an enviable fame.
“ From 18 to 51 years of age he was a materialist, despite his early
religious culture, and was converted to Spiritualism through mes¬
merism, and a profound study of the laws of spiritual forces, facts, and
phenomena. A long and laborious investigation, from which the most
patient would have shrunk in discouragement, resulted in his great
work on Spiritualism and Primitive Christianity, which fills the niche
of honour in the library of Spiritualism. He saw that spiritual com¬
munications of all ages and races must of necessity be amenable to one
common law, and the explanation of one age was true of all others. He
holds the key to the mysteries, and alternately interprets the Bible by
the light of modern Spiritualism and the latter by the former. Nobody
can read candidly a single chapter of this great and exhaustive work
without being convinced that whatever may be the source of the so-
called modern phenom-na of Spiritualism, his own revelation flows
from the same fount, and whatever affects or explains one, affects and
explains the other.
“ Dr. Crowell shows how grandly and beautifully the golden strands
of Spiritualism are woven into warp of human history, sometimes dis¬
appearing beneath the vulgar materialism of mortal life, obscured by
the opaque strands of ignorance, or glistening distorted through the
overlying error. His recent tract on Spiritualism and Insanity is the
most conclusive document yet produced on that subject, and is un¬
answerable. It completely and finally settles the question. He shows
that Spiritualism is one of the least prolific causes of insanity; that it
does not compare with religion in that respect, and that its tendency
is directly the reverse. It is a paper that every Spiritualist should
have in readiness to thrust into the hands of those opponents who never
weary of the ‘ mad dog cry ’ of insanity.
“ Once thoroughly convinced of the 'ruthfulness of the manifesta¬
tions, Dr. Crowell did not hesitate to bestow on Spiritualism all his
energies, and the ripe fruition of his life. The cause has much more to
expect from his vigorous pen.”
The Davenport Brothers.—According to last accounts, the Daven¬
port Brothers were in New Zealand exhibiting their phenomena. They
do not say they are Spiritualists (which for the cause of Spiritualism is
well); neither do they affirm that the phenomena witnessed in their
cabinet are produced by spirits. And yet, for some reason or other,
they are largely patronised by Spiritualists. When in our city they
charged £20 for a private stance. And what, with other things, was to
their discredit, they had as a travelling companion Mr. Keller, a noted
conjurer and illusionist; and this Mr. Keller (nowin our colony) asserts
in public that he had travelled with the Davenports, more or less, for
eight years. It is the opinion of Spiritualists generally that the Daven¬
ports have mediumistic gifts, but that they have so prostituted them to
mercenary ends, and low occult influences, that they are utterlv unreli¬
able. This much is certain, they did no good to Spiritualism in Calcutta
or Melbourne.—Harbinger of Light.
Dr. Slade.—Mr. J. M. Peebles, late American Consul at Trebizonde,
writes to the Harbinger of Light (Melbourne) of April 1st:—“ Spirit¬
ualists everywhere may feel flattered at the impetus given to Spirit¬
ualism in London and throughout all English-speaking countries by the
persecution of Dr. Henry Slade. Professor Lankester, pompous and
violent-tempered, ‘ means it for evilbut God and the good angels
overruled it for good. Acquainted with Dr. Slade for fully fifteen years,
I know him to be an honourable man and a superior medium. In fact,
I lived his neighbour nine years in Michigan ; officiated at his second
marriage; and have witnessed all the various phases of his medium-
ship. No intelligent and no conscientious person can attend his test-
seances without being convinced of the truth of spirit-communion.”
Spiritualism in Oldham.—On Sunday, June 3rd, Mr. W. J.
Colville, inspirational medium, delivered two trance addresses and
poems in the Temperance Hail, Oldham. Mr. Colville’s guides, when
speaking upon “ Spiritualism and Theology,” said that they in reality
were one and the same thing when founded in integrity and purity, for
theology signified “ the knowledge man may obtain respecting God and
a future life.” In this it was identical with Spiritualism. If the
audience understood theology to mean creeds and dogmas, it was
necessarily an opposing force to Spiritualism, as well as to all move¬
ments for the mental and spiritual advancement of mankind, but creeds
and dogmas were no more true theology than the Athanasian Creed was
the gospel of Jesus. The outward expression of man’s inner convic¬
tions would be always changing until he reached the highest possible
ideal condition. Spiritualism was a glorious means towards the
attainment of this ideal, if used aright. In the evening an a Idr^ss
was given upon “ The Spirit Spheres and their Inhabitants,” a theme
chosen by the audience. There was a good attendance. Last
Sunday two other addresses were delivered by Mr, Colville in Oldhamt
282
ITUALIST.
June 15, 1877.
THE S PIB
STONE-THROWING BY SPIRITS IN AUSTRALIA *
BY A. MUELLER, M.D.
Amongst the varied phenomena of Spiritualism, not the
least interesting are those spontaneous “unimplored” tokens
of Spiritual existence, presented not unfrequently to people
who know nothing of Spiritualism, but who, seeing acts
performed before their very eyes that imply intelligence,
are forced by the merest common sense to assume that they
emanate from intelligent, though invisible actors. In No. 42
of the Australische Zeitmg of last year, an ably-conducted
German weekly, appearing at Adelaide, a most interesting
instance of such spontaneous manifestations is recorded as
having occured at the German settlement of Julia Creek,
South Australia. But before giving a translation of the re¬
port, as communicated by a correspondent to the editor of the
paper, I must make a few remarks on the would-be satirical
manner in which the editor introduces this report to his
readers, since it is highly characteristic of the unphilosophical
spirit in which this most philosophical nation has hitherto
received the facts and science of Spiritualism. The article
is headed—“Ghosts acting in open daylight, hu! hu !”—the
latter exclamation intended to express the mock fear of him¬
self and readers at this announcement; and the worthy editor
then goes on to say, that though he knows his correspondent
to be a most respectable and truthful man, he cannot agree
with him as to the facts alleged to have taken place; that
the whole affair must be illusory, founded on mistake and
faulty observation. He scorns, of course, the very idea of
spirits having anything to do with it, and actually asks his
readers’ pardon for laying the story before them for the bene¬
fit of the few who might be inclined to believe it.
He is evidently a true child of his age and nation, of that
rationalism which was but the initiatory stage of the ma¬
terialism that has now taken such firm root in Germany
amongst all, and especially the best educated classes. From
its savans, than whom no higher authority exists for the
German, the dictum has gone forth that spirit, since it can¬
not be weighed in scales, or distilled in a retort, and is in¬
accessible to our ordinary sensual perception, is therefore non
est, a mere name for effects produced by “ a fortuitous com¬
bination of atoms,” and that the belief in spirits, though it
has been common to all times and all nations, is nothing but
a foolish superstition none but idiots can maintain in this our
enlightened age. The spiritual world which has asserted its
reality so plainly throughout all history, and revealed itself
with such overpowering force during the last three decades
of our own century, is henceforth, by universal consent, voted
out of the universe. Learned treatises are written to prove
the “ daemon ” of Socrates a perpetual hallucination of the
exalted clairaudient sage. The numerous proofs of spirit-
agency recorded in the Bible are held up as mere myths,
devoid of any foundation in fact. Such men as Jung Stilling
and Justinus Kerner are quietly ignored, and even the
admonition of the great Goethe—
“ Die Geisterwelt ist nicht verscklossen,
Dein Herz ist halt, dein Sinn ist todt”
is looked upon as a mere poetical phrase. We must, there¬
fore, excuse the editor of the Australische Zeitung that he
cannot reconcile himself to the facts of the subjoined narrative
written by an eye-witness.
“ Whoever has but the least conception of the universe,
must agree with the great English poet when he says that
1 there are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt
of in our philosophy.’ Scarcely anybody, however, will
credit that in this ‘ so-called ’ enlightened nineteenth century
things should occur in which those invisible powers that
are said to inhabit the realms of space play an active part.
Yet such must be the case, for only a few weeks ago an
occurrence has taken place here illustrating but too forcibly
the existence of such unsubstantial beings, and their occa¬
sional intermingling with the human world. But let me
narrate to you the strange facts as communicated to me by
an eye-witness, a man as respected and truthful as he is
courageous and free from any superstitious fear. According
to him, it was on a Saturday (date unnamed) that the
daughter of one of our farmers, named Eisen, thirteen years
* This account is quoted from the Harbinger of Light, Melbourne. Many instances of
stone-thro wing by spirits, and in several cases under the eyes of the police, were once
published in a pamphlet by Mr. William Howitt, The Belfast KewsLetter a few years ago
published the details of a striking ease at Ccokstovyn, Ireland ; the Irish constabulary could
solve the mystery or explain the facts.
|| of age, had been sent to Friedrichswalde to receive the reli¬
gious instruction which had to precede her intended confir-
1 mation. The distance being from eight to nine miles, the
I girl was afraid to go alone, and an elder sister was therefore
told to accompany her. Whilst returning home, after dark,
the two girls found themselves suddenly and persistently
pelted with small stones. They tried their best to discover
the perpetrator of this wanton mischief, but in vain; no
| human being was within sight or hearing, yet the pebbles
| came down upon them. At last they became thoroughly
frightened, and traversed section after section in breathless
Ij haste, but no matter how fast they ran, stones and pieces of
earth would rain upon them, without however inflicting any
pain. On the following Saturday they had to go again, and
again on their homeward journey the pelting was repeated.
I But there was one thing in their favour this time which they
| had taken care to secure—it was broad daylight, four
o’clock p.m. Surely now they would be able to discover
| who was so persistently bent upon annoying them.
Whenever a stone struck them, they gazed at once, far
| and near, in the direction they had felt it come from, and
| whilst so doing would actually see some more flying
| towards them from the same direction, but neither there,
i nor anywhere within their sight, were they able to discover
| the slightest trace of their tormentor. At last curiosity and
| wonder were again overcome by fright, and their quiet walk
I turned into a run. Exhausted and breathless they told the
story of their strange adventure to their parents, who like-
I wise became alarmed lest the stone-throwing should actually
be continued right into the house. This fear, however,
seemed groundless. All remained quiet that night and the
following morning. At one o’clock p.m., the family were
| together in their sitting-room, when all of a sudden the
dreaded visitation took place. Stones came flying in through
I the door. All rushed out at once, surrounded the house,
i and searched every nook and corner that might serve as a
hiding place to their unwelcome visitor; but whilst not a trace
| of any human being could be found anywhere, they actually
| saw stones and pieces of brick thrown into the room from
points apparently close to them. Bewildered and dis-
| heartened, they returned into the room and closed the door,
| but their astonishment was boundless when they found the
stones passing through the door like bullets, without break¬
ing a single fibre of the wood, and rolling a distance of
eight to ten feet to the opposite side of the room. This was
[| kept up with short intermissions till nine o’clock p.m., and
I then ceased suddenly, to be commenced again at one o’clock
p.m., on the following day, with a vigour that entirely
| eclipsed the previous day’s performance. The stones now
literally rained into the closed room from all possible direc¬
tions, passing, not only through the door, but also through
I the ceiling and walls of the room ; yet, instead of riddling
I these, causing not the slightest visible hole or crack in
I them.
But unpleasant as it must have been to be an inmate of
this truly haunted house, it was most remarkable, that these
flying missiles of an evidently intelligent power, did not
hurt any one, that whenever they struck any of the inmates,
especially on the head or face, they would touch as lightly as
feathers, though striking the floor the next moment with
apparent force and rolling away on it for some distance,
j Equally remarkable was the fact that the throwing seemed
| to require the presence of the younger of the two sisters
| mentioned. Struck by this, a brother-in-law of the girl,
| living about half a mile from the place, proposed to take
j her to his own house. He did so, but was very glad to get
| rid of her again on the next morning, for scarcely had he
entered his house with her, when the throwing commenced
I most furiously, and from all directions, first with stones and
| pieces of earth, and then with chips of wood. Here, like¬
wise, all attempts to fathom this perplexing mystery were
totally unavailing. When the numerous pieces of wood,
j which strewed the floor were collected and thrown into the
I fire, they were scarcely burnt before coals were flying about.
Finally even pieces and crumbs of bread, .which a little child
| had left on the table, were taken up by invisible hands and
I scattered about the room. This lasted until one o’clock that
| night; on the next day the girl returned home, and the
: throwing with her. For five days it was kept up here almost
June 15, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
283
continually. Sleep was out of the question during all this j
time; in fact the unfortunate family was kept in such a |
state of excitement and consternation that scarcely the most i
necessary food could be prepared. On the last day especially, j
and evidently intended as grand finale, such quantities of j (
stone and earth were thrown into the place, that they had to |
be shovelled up. Then finally came chips again, some of ||
which Mr. Eisen whilst cutting wood outside, actually saw |
taken up and thrown into the house immediately after their j)
falling from the axe. The only inmates of the house which | j
the ghostly visitation did not disturb in the least were the | j
dogs, not even as much as a bark being heard from them j
during all the time it lasted. Another noteworthy feature, !
perhaps the most suggestive of all, was the invariable cessa- j
#tion of the disturbance whenever the family engaged in I
singing and prayer.”—Harbinger of Light. j
THE LATE ME. JAMES WASON.
Mr. James Wason, for some years president of the Liverpool j
Psychological Society, passed to the higher life last Saturday week, at !
his residence, Hamilton-square, Birkenhead. He had entered upon his i
seventy-second year, and was well known by reputation to all Spirit- i
ualists in this country, and in London and Liverpool possessed a large i (
circle of personal friends among those in the van of the movement, j
He was beloved by all for his kindly disposition and his clear intelli- j j
gence. ! <
The Liverpool Mercury says of him :—“ For the last eleven years j j
he had filled the office of registrar of the Birkenhead county court, to j (
which office he was promoted by the late judge, Mr. Harden, from 11
Chester, on the death of Mr. J. Gill, the former registrar. He was j j
one of the oldest of our Liverpool solicitors, having for many years i (
carried on, until very recently, business in Wason’s-buildings, Harriug- j i
ton-street. In his office of county court registrar he had to discharge | \
very important duties in bankruptcy; and, as the Birkenhead county j,
court is a district registry of the supreme courts, Mr. Wason had many j1
matters under the j udicature acts to deal with. The latter duties he j'
dealt with personally nearly up to his death, but most of his work in j,
the county court for some months past had received the attention of his
friend, Mr. S. Payne, who, by the sanction of the judge, had acted as ! |
his deputy. Mr. Wason was a widower, without family. He uncom- j,
plainingly for some time past bore serious illness, and was as gentle and j 1
as kindly in his weakness and suffering as he always was in health and |!
vigour. His uniform courtesy, his constant tenderness towards those j |
with whom he was associated in friendship or business, endeared him j1
to many friends. By his death the public have lost a conscientious 1 (
official; the profession a high-minded and honourable member. His j 1
honour the judge, Mr. W. Wynne Ffoulkes, has, we believe, appointed 11
Mr. S. Payne to act as provisional registrar until he makes a formal | (
appointment of Mr. Wason’s successor.” i 1
The Liverpool Daily Post says:—“ The remains of the late Mr.
James Wason, registrar of the Birkenhead county court, were interred j (
in the churchyard at Wallasey. The funeral, in accordance with the i 1
expressed wishes of the deceased when alive, was of a most unosten- j'
tatious character, and neither the hearse nor the mourning carriages ],
were plumed. The funeral cortege left the residence of the deceased, j 1
HamUton-square, Birkenhead, between eleven and twelve o’clock, and j1
the mourners included Mr. Thomas Wason, cousin of the deceased ; i,
Mr. Eugene Wason and Mr. Kotch, relatives ; and the following per- j 1
sonal friends followed in carriages Dr. Lamb, Mr. Gilmour, formerly
deputy judge of the Birkenhead county court; Messrs. Kees, Payne, |.
Lloyd, Strongitharm, Lamb, and Wilford. Messrs. Hannan Pugh,
Sebright Green, Thompson, and Bleakeley, solicitors practising in the I
court, and Messrs. Thompson, Sim, Lawson, and Mawson, also fol¬
lowed. In the churchyard were, in addition to those already named,
Dr. Hitchman, Messrs. Walmsley, Simpson, Clark, Dickie, Pruddall,
and Price.’’
The advertisement about the Spiritualist Fund will shortly be with- j
drawn, and friends who desire to subscribe, but have not yet entered
their names, are requested to do so at once. Subscriptions of £5 from
Mr. Bulteel and £5 from M. E. T. have been added this week.
Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage.—The thirty-first soirie in connection
with Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage, went off at Langham Hall with great ]'
eclat. The Orphanage hand-bell ringers made their debut and were
enthusiastically encored after each piece. Mrs. Weldon and Signor
Federici, sang two successful songs by a new composer, Mr. Percy
Reeve, and little Katie as usual delighted the audience with her
recitation of “ The Spider of the Period.” The thirty-second will be
marked by Mr. James Burns giving phrenological delineations of cha¬
racter. Mrs. Weldon gives two afternoon concerts at Laugham Hall,
on Thursdays, 21st June and 5th July, in the afternoon, from 4 to
6 p.m., for the purpose of attracting children by the earliness of the
hour to witness the result of her infant pupils’ training. The St.
Cecilia choralists (Dr. Bernhardt’s), Miss Jessie Bond, Miss Edith
Goldsbro’, Mrs. Weldon, Miss Masson, Signor Federici, Mr. Bernard
Lane, Mr. J. McD. Joy, the Orphanage hand-bell ringers' and Mr.
George Grossmith, junr., will take part in the proceedings. Mrs. j
Weldon acknowledges, with thanks, the receipt of 3s. donation from j
Mr. Hare, Newcastle; 6s. sale of drawings, supplied by Mr. Gill, |
Brighton ; and 12s. sale of photographs of Mrs. Weldon and Katie and
Others, per Mr, W. J. Colville,
PROPERTY RECOVERED THROUGH A SPIRIT MESSAGE.
It has often been charged against the spiritual manifestations that
they do no practical good, says the Burlington (Iowa) News : “ They
can play banjos, and ring bells, and cuff people’s ears, but that don’t
help anybody or prove anything.” Mr. J. W. Giles, of that city, comes
to the front now with a remarkable tale of his own experience, which
tends to show that the spirits can be of some use when they feel dis¬
posed. His statement is as follows:—A relative of his, who was an
officer in an Iowa cavalry regiment during the war, died, several years
ago, leaving a wife and children. A part of the money due to him from
the Government was paid to his widow. A few months since Mr.
Giles was at a spiritual seance in Chicago, when the spirit of the dead
soldier communicated to him, through a medium, that about 500 dols.
was still due to his heirs, but had not been collected, because the
necessary papers had been lost. The spirit said the papers were in
a wooden box in a certain drawer in a bureau at home, wrapped up in
a bundle of three newspapers. Mr. Giles afterwards went to the house,
inquired of the family, and found that the money was due from the
Government, but the papers had been lost. He then told what the
spirit had said to him. The box was found in the bureau, the news¬
papers were in the box, and the military papers were rolled up in the
newspapers. They were immediately sent forward to the proper
authorities. Not long since the widow received the full amount of
money due.—Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.).
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday evening, at the ordinary monthly meeting of the
Council of the National Association of Spiritualists, Mr. Alexander
Calder presided. The other members present were Mr. Morell Theobald,
Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs. Dawson Rogers,
Mrs. Maltby, Mr. M. J. Walhouse, F.R.A.S., Mr. G. F. Green, the
Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., Miss Withall, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Miss
Houghton, Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. H. Withall, Mr. W. B. Mawson, Mr. C.
Pearson, and Mr. Algernon Joy, M. Inst. C.E.
The minutes of the last Council meeting having been read and con¬
firmed, and the minutes of the Annual General Meeting having been
read,
Mr. Dawson Rogers proposed, and Mrs. Maltby seconded, the re-
election of Mr. Alexander Calder as president. Tins was passed unani¬
mously.
Mr. Calder replied : Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how I can
sufficiently express my thanks for the kind manner in which my re-
election to this responsible office has been proposed. I shall not attempt
to make any reply, for I deeply feel the responsibility of the position,
and I consider my deficiencies to be great; but I confide, as heretofore,
in your indulgence and kindness.
Mr. E. T. Bennett proposed, and Mr. Fitz-Gerald seconded, the re-
election of the vice-presidents of last year, with the exception of Mr.
James Wason, deceased. This was passed unanimously.
Mr. Martin Smith was re-elected treasurer, and Mr. Morell Theobald
auditor.
Arrangements were made for the reconstruction of the committees.
Eight new members were elected, including Mr. Edward Maitland,
author of England and Islam. There were two resignations.
The report of the Finance Committee showed a balance in hand of
£48 12s. Id., recommended payments to the amount of £40 5s. 2d„ and
estimated the total outstanding liabilities of the Association at £5. The
auditor remarked that it would be necessary to draw upon the Guarantee
Fund, if some of the members did not raise their subscriptions.
The Secretary announced that the Baron and Baroness Von Vay, of
Austria, and Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, of Boston, U.S., would
shortly visit this country.
The President read a letter from the secretary, accompanied by a medical
certificate, stating that she was not well, so wanted a change; asking for
leave of absence during August, September, and October, for the pur¬
pose of travelling and visiting Spiritualists in the United States; and
offering to provide a substitute to do her work in London.
Mr. Maltby moved, and Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald seconded, that the
request be granted. Mr. Dawson Rogers moved an amendment,
seconded by Mr. Henry Withall, that two months’ leave of absence
instead of three, be awarded. Messrs. Bennett and Theobald supported
the amendment, and Mr. Stainton-Moses the original motion. After a
second speech from Mr. Rogers, followed by a show of hands, the chair¬
man announced the amendment to be carried by ten to four; it was then
put as a substantive motion, and passed.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald made some statements about the work of the Research
Committee, which committee was then thanked for its painstaking
labours, and the meeting closed.
The new edition of Professor Gregory’s Animal Magnetism will pro-
ably be out next week. The binding only has to be completed.
Spiritualistic Soiree.—At the conversazione of the British National
Association of Spiritualists, held on Wednesday, last week, some reci¬
tations by Miss Ella Dietz of the Theatre Royal, Haymarket, and
Mr. Dietz, displayed real genius and much refined taste ; especially was
this the case with Miss Dietz’s narration of Hans Christian Andersen’s
story of The Swineherd, about the prince who, having offered a princess
that which was real and true, received the u cold shoulder ” in return,
but when he tendered her artificial shams, was welcomed, whereupon
he locked her out of his palace, and would have nothing further to say to
her. Miss Melissa Rogers, Miss Withall and others, also helped to
promote the pleasure of the evening.
284
June 15, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
(Komsponnence.
[Great freedom isgiven to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot he returned ;
copies should be Iceptby the writers.']
A CURIOUS CIRCUMSTANCE CONNECTED AVITH A CEDAR PENCIL.
Sir,—About ten o’clock on Wednesday morning, 23rd May last, I
went into the library to continue the cataloguing of books on which I
had been engaged the previous night: there were seventeen volumes
of the Annual Register on the table, which is facing the window and
within three or four feet of it. (I shall call this table “ my table V
throughout the narrative I am writing.) I looked for the pencil I
had been using last night, and which I supposed I had left on my
table, as is my habit when I have finished work, but I could not see
it either on my table, or on the other table, which also has books on
it, or on the floor. Whilst I was searching, William (the butler) came
into the room, and I asked him if he had seen or moved the pencil.
His reply was, “ No,” and he added that he would ask the housemaid
if she knew anything of it: he went away and brought back word
from the housemaid that she had not moved or seen any pencil.
William then said he would get me another : in the meantime, I went
upstairs to make quite sure that the pencil wTas not in my bedroom.
I searched about everywhere in the room, and examined the clothes I
wore on the preceding night, but ineffectually. On returning to the
library, I found a pencil lying on my table which William had brought
and left there for me, and which appeared to be the fac-simile of the
one I had lost. On William’s telling me that he had found this pencil
in the morning-room, I remarked, “It is very like my pencil, and I
believe it is; but I am sure I did not take mine into the morning-
room,” to which William replied that he supposed somebody else had
done so. I then resumed my cataloguing, using this pencil to finish
my work on the volumes of the Annual Register that were on my
table. Having completed this, and placed the books back on their
shelf, I commenced to remove books from the next lower shelf (called
g, in press 16) to my table. I had brought the first and second instal¬
ments of books to my table, having made two trips to shelf g and back,
and I was returning the third time with the remainder, when, what
should I see on my table, where 1 had left one pencil, but two pencils,
lying alongside of and parallel with one another.
I had placed the pencil I had been using on the table in a convenient
position for my right hand to take up whenever I resumed my seat
and recommenced writing, and during the two trips I had made to
the shelf and back to fetch books, the pencil, as far as my observation
went, remained alone, where I laid it down; on returning, however,
the third time from the shelf, I immediately noticed this second pencil
close to the first. After an inspection of this pencil, I discovered, from
certain marks on it, which I then remembered, that it was my own
pencil which I had been using last night, and for which I and the
butler had unsuccessfully searched a short time previously, conse¬
quently I was mistaken in supposing that the pencil William brought
me out of the morning-room was mine.
The question now arises, How did the second pencil—my pencil—
get on the table, and where did it come from ? The exact time, of
which I can speak with certainty, when the pencil first appeared on
the table, was during the removal of the books from shelf g to the
table, and this short period of a minute or two which sufficed for the
removal of all the books, may, in all probability, be narrowed down
to a few moments, for I never perceived the second pencil until I
made the third trip to the table ; consequently I may fairly assume
it was not there until then, for it is undoubtedly more likely that I
should have remarked an unusual circumstance directly it came under
my notice, rather than that I should have let it pass unheeded for a
time and then all of a sudden, without apparent rhyme or reason, have
become cognizant of it—a change in the disposition of familiar objects,
or in an addition to them, of something striking and unexpected would,
when Jirst placed before the eye, arrest its attention, but be less likely
to do so directly it ceased to be a novelty. It may then be granted
that, on the theory of probabilities, I should have observed the pre¬
sence of a second pencil immediately it became possible for me to do
so, and not at a subsequent time, and I may add that the loss of the
pencil dwelt in my mind, so that I was still conjecturing by whose
means the pencil William had brought me was taken from the library
to the morning-room. This, then, being uppermost in my thoughts,
an incident in direct connection with it is not at all likely to have
escaped notice, and so the time when the pencil was put on the table
can be ascertained within fifteen or twenty seconds, viz., between my
third journey from the table to the bookshelf and my completing the
act of placing on the table the books I had collected from the shelf.
I cannot positively state the length of time this occupied, but I am
confident it could not have exceeded, allowing a liberal margin, thirty
seconds. The distance from the table to the shelf is twenty feet, the
same back again gives a space of forty feet to be traversed, then there
is the stooping to the lowest shelf, (shelf g is the lowest of the tier and
about one foot above the ground), and the lifting up of six or eight
books. I find by experiment that it takes me about fifteen seconds to
get through these operations in a leisurely, natural way, such as I
probably employed on the occasion in question. Nobody entered the
room whilst I was removing the books from shelf g and it being about
10.40 a.m. there was full of daylight. The B shad left about an
hour previously, and Mrs. L and her daughter were waiting for
the carriage to return to take them away to D .
It must not be forgotten that whilst in my bedroom looking for the
pencil, I searched the pockets of the clothes I am wearing, a second
time, and also those of a coat that was lying on the sofa, but without
finding the pencil, so such a suggestion as that the pencil might have
dropped out of the breast-pocket of my coat on to the table as I
Kj stooped over it in putting the books down, or that I took it out of
|j some pocket inadvertently and placed it on the table, is negatived.
] (| Another supposition may arise, that the pencil had been left as a
i i i marker in one of the volumes of the last lot I brought to the table,
j): and that when I laid the book on the table it rolled out. To this I
: (i reply, that last night when I was using the pencil I am positive I
ni never touched a book on shelf g, nor is it likely, when I wanted both
jn hands for the manipulation of the books, I should have taken the
j (i pencil from the table to the shelf. But it may be urged that somebody
i)i else consulted a book on shelf <7, and placed the pencil in it. I cannot
i(:: declare this was not the case, I can only show it is exceedingly impro-
jv| bable. I was the last person to retire to bed on Tuesday night, and
j;j I have been unable to ascertain that any one went into the library in
id the morning but the servants, before I settled myself there permanently
|jj at 9.45 a m. Granting, however, for the sake of argument that some
i) ] person did enter the room during my absence, did take a book from
| (! the right hand side of shelf g to the table, and whilst there did place
H i my pencil amongst its leaves restoring the book to its original location,
Hi still, only half the difficulty is overcome, seeing that the pencil would
| (I have had to escape my notice when I was handling the volume that
i) | contained it, and also when it rolled out and took up such a very con-
j) i venient position alongside of the other pencil under my very eyes.
The number of books fetched from shelf g, which are all octavos, was
i) j in the three trips twenty-one, and in the last trip from seven to ten
volumes.
iu H (the gentleman in whose house the occurrence took place)
j) | has suggested that whilst I was sitting at the table, I picked the
: j | pencil off the floor and put it on the table in an absent manner. He
j (i is satisfied that the causation must be referred to myself, and so invents
jj this hypothesis. The arguments against it are, that I never remember
i \ | acting so absently in my life, and that on this particular occasion my
Kj thoughts were centred on the pencil, so that if I had found the lost
|)j article on the carpet, and grasped it in my band, and transferred it to
j(i the table where I was sitting, it must have evaded the perception of
Kj the two senses of touch and sight when their sensitiveness would
1)1 certainly have been intensified by the correlation of ideas brought
about by this act. Besides, when I searched the library, and inde-
!) pendently of me, the butler searched it, the carpet under the tables
j)| was examined as the most likely spot next to the tables for the dis-
j(j covery of the pencil. It cannot, I think, be said that this conjecture
Kj holds out any reasonable hope of a solution.
j)j After the strictest scrutiny of each particular, and the most careful
i j • analysis of all the circumstances surrounding the fact, I can arrive at
j j j no satisfactory conclusion ; indeed, the thorough examination I have
I) made leaves the matter more inexplicable than when, to my utter
\J astonishment, I perceived two pencils lying where just before my eyes
j j j had rested upon one, for then the matter had not been subjected to a
I (j careful investigation.
I began to write this account within an hour of the singular occur-
! j j ence to which it refers, and consequently when every little circumstance
I (j was fresh in my mind, and my memory and not my imagination was
j | j called upon to supply details for the working out of the problem; and
j) j I solemnly and sincerely declare that this is a true and accurate
i (j statement of what took place, made for my own satisfaction only and
HI for no other purpose. Philip Henry Nind, M.A. (Oxon).
!< j 23rd May, 1877, 4.45 p.m.
SPECULATIONS.
hi' In The Spiritualist, No. 17, I read in a communication, entitled
h i “ Easter-day (1877) Spirit Teaching,” from a high spirit, who manifests
under the name of “ Imperator,” the following passages:—
“ Descending from the spiritual life in the spheres of bliss, the Au-
nointed One (meaning Christ) came to your earth to fulfil His divine
mission, vailing in human flesh the radiance of His pure spirit, He took
a body in the manger at Bethlehem, and became man, with all the im¬
perfections and frailties of humanity, subject to the sorrows, the tempta¬
tions, the discipline, through which alone progress is gained.”
“ In this read a type of the descent of spirit into matter as its sole
means of progress. Spirit, existent in ages past, having won for itself
; the requisite development, descends to incarnation, so that by conflict
and by discipline it may be purified and made fit for the progress it
jjl cannot otherwise gain.”
iji These passages contain quite a series of important assertions, and, to
j)j my judgment, seeming contradictions, apt to rouse doubt, and calling
for farther elucidation. “ Imperator” contends :—
1. That spirit is not evolved from matter, but descends into matter.
2. That spirit, although existing for “ ages ” in spiritual life, and
winning there “ for itself the requisite development,” has nevertheless
to “ descend to incarnation,” in order to get “ purified,” and to be mado
“fit for the progress it cannot otherwise gain,” that is, not in spirit life.
3. That Christ was a type of this “ descent of spirit into matter.”
The questions suggested by these Imperatorial sentences to me, I
■' j would briefly state thus :—
A. Has spirit, which many (Spiritualists and Materialists) believe to
K j be evolved from matter, an independent existence and development in
jn spirit life?
B. Is this development, however, a limited one, and must the spirit,
j)j after having “won its requisite development,” in spiritual life, be in-
I (i carnated, that is, become flesh as man, in order to be made fit for
i)! farther progress in spirit life ?
\)\ C. How can a descent “from spheres of bliss” into all the imper-
I j fections, frailties, sorrows, &c., of humanity, be a means of progress
j | i (which is ascent) to a spirit which has already won its “ requisite de-
j| velopment?”
j j D. How could a spirit, which, as “ Imperator ” asserts, was already
hi a pure spirit, become more “purified” by incarnation, that is, by
285
June 15, 187?.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
what in this case would seem degradation? How could a diamond be
made more radiant by being mixed with clay?
E. How could Christ, if before His incarnation He had been a ‘‘pure
spirit,” and, of course, endowed with the nature and power of such,
be considered a type, that is, an example, to man, evolved from coarse
matter, and not having had the benefit of previous development in the
“ spheres of bliss ?”
Have we to accept the ponderous assertions of “ Imperator ’’ as
absolute (revealed) truth, or as the expression of dogmatical opinions of
a certain class of spirits only ?
I am sure that if “ Imperator ” would deign to answer the above
stated questions, he would oblige not only the subscriber but many other
good Spiritualists, who may have read his fine Easter-day discourse
with edification, but at the same time cum gram salis.
(Dr.) Gr. Bloehe.
Brooklyn, Now York, May 27th, 1877.
METAPHYSICS AND MATERIALISM.
Sir,—I should be glad to be allowed to correct a not quite accurate
remark contained in a rather hastily prepared paper of mine, read before
the Marylebone Association, and printed in your journal this week. I
spoke of “the higher metaphysics’’ as “long neglected, and now
ignorantly disparaged, in this country.” Till within lately they certainly
had been “long neglected,”having been superseded by a sort of physio¬
logical psychology, the scientific value of which I am quite ready to
recognise. But in the recent editions of Berkeley and Fichte, and in
an important work just published on the philosophy of Kant, we have
symptoms of a revival of that interest in metaphysics which the
positivist school would persuade us is a thing of the past. Twelve
years ago an attempt was made by Mr. Hutchinson Sterling to engage
the speculative mind of England in the laborious ascent of the
abstrusest heights of abstraction which modern thought has reached.
But the Secret of Ifegel has apparently been little read, and less
appreciated, the “ Secret ” of the great German philosopher remaining
inviolate for Englishmen. In Mr. Shadworth Hodgson, also, we have
a metaphysical thinker of a very high order, and of profound and ex¬
tensive reading. And, of course, others might be named who redeem
English thought from the reproach of “ disparaging ’’ metaphysics.
To Spiritualists who have any leisure and taste for speculation, the
importance of cultivating metaphysics, especially the German philo¬
sophers, from Kant to Hegel, cannot be overrated. Often have I re¬
cognised, both in theosophic writings, and in trance addresses which
have sought to familiarise us with spiritual conceptions, the concrete
expression of verities which are scientifically set forth in abstract form
by these profound thinkers. There are many Spiritualists who are deep
students of Jacob Behmen, and it is known that of those mystic waters
Hegel also had drunken. Other Spiritualists are just beginning to rub
their eyes, and to ask the question, as something new and startling,
whether there is after all “ any such thing as matter.” To these the
metaphysician may reply, “ Matter, as you mean it, has long been an
exploded fallacy.” Berkeley showed that the so-called “ primary
qualities ”—extension, figure, &c.—are as much subjective phenomena
as the secondary ones (colour, &c.), which are more easily recognised as
sensations. The unknown substratum—the “ object ” in which these
qualities had been supposed to reside—stood revealed henceforth as a
mere “ inference ” of the mind. In itself it is not only unknown,
but is likewise absolutely unthinkable. The psychological history
and explanation of this inference is one of the deeply interesting
problems to which Fichte especially addresses himself. It has,
however, to be recognised that a thinking substance is just
as incognisable as an extended substance, the result for Idealism
being that neither spirit nor body is substance, spirit being activity and
body (or phenomenon) the product of activity, the expression and out¬
come of the latter. The idea of substance is ultimately found to resolve
itself into the Hegelian formula of the identity of being and nothing—a
profound, and not a nonsensical proposition, as I will endeavour to show,
if you will give me space hereafter. To my fellow-students of Behmen
I would just hint, at present, that this idea should have less difficulties
for them than for others. But it is “ a long cry ” to Hegel. We should
first thread our way through the systems which preceded and led up to
his, beginning with Kant. He took up philosophy where Hume had
left it. Berkeley had included extension—the inseparable attribute of
“ Matter”—among the “ ideas ” of the mind. Kant, though not ranked
as an Idealist, gave the Idealism of Berkeley a far higher and more
scientific expression, by reducing the conceptions of space and time to
forms of intuition. This was a perfectly revolutionary thought. English
psychologists, on the other hand, have made a clever and ingenious
attempt to analyse conceptions of space into those of time. In either
view, however, space as an objective reality, “ containing ” substance,
and matter as a noumcnon essentially extended, are gone; There
remains, of course, the possibility, if not the necessity, of an unknown
something, as the cause of what in consciousness appears as the external
object. This is well put, from his own point of view, by Mr. G.. H.
Lewes. “ Perception,” he says, “ is the identity (in the metaphysical
sense of the word) of the ego and the non ego—the teriium quid of two
united forces, as water is the identity of oxygen and hydrogen. The
ego can never have any knowledge of the non-ego, in which it, the ego,
is not indissolubly bound up ; as oxygen never can unite with hydrogen
without merging itself and the hydrogen in a tertium quid. Let us
suppose the oxygen endowed with a consciousness of its changes. It
would attribute the change not to hydrogen, which is necessarily hidden
from it, but to water, the only form under which hydrogen is known to
it. In its consciousness it would find the state named water (percep¬
tion), which would be very unlike its own state (the ego), and it would
suppose that this state, so unlike its own, was a representation of that
which caused it. We say, then, that although the hydrogen can
only exist for the oxygen (in the above case) in the identity
(
<
(
(
of. both as water, this is no proof that hydrogen does not
exist under some other relation to other forces. In like manner,
although the non-ego cannot exist in relation to mind otherwise than in
the identity of the two (perception); this is no sort of proof that it does
not exist in relation to other beings under quite different conditions.”
But the remark which applies to the conception of matter as noumenon,
applies also to every attempt to set up a duality or multiplicity
of substances. This was shown by Spinoza. A particular, definite
substance is a misnomer. It is thinkable, can exist only as attribute.
That which is essentially qualified (which is the characteristic of the
definite) is quality. As the ultimate substratum of every quality we
must get to the absolute, that being-nothing of which it has been well
said that capacity for metaphysical thought may be gauged by the
ability to see in it something more than nonsense.
To recur to what I commenced with, I adhere to the position that the
speculative materialism of the present day is largely owing to the
neglect of metaphysics, although it is not true that the sacred flame has
not been kept alive in this country. When materialism is found com¬
bined with any knowledge of metaphysics, it takes a transcendental
form. Matter to such is not, of course, the phenomenal matter of
ordinary language. No metaphysician could be so absurd as to treat
consciousness as a function of that of which the Esse is Percipi. The
atom of the transcendental materialist in unextended. But inasmuch
as his atom is, ex hypothesis dead, in order to evolve life he has to
postulate (1) a multiplicity of substances (atoms), (2) motion, (3) as
pointed out by Mr. Croll, in a paper read recently before the Psycholo¬
gical Society, direction of motion.* This postulated motion must not,
of course, be confounded with motion in space, which is merely
phenomena], i.e.y a fact of consciousness. It is rather an inherent
activity, scarcely distinguishable from that which the idealist ascribes
to, or rather identifies with spirit. But to the idealist the product of
this activity is necessarily phenomenal, that is, presupposes conscious¬
ness, and constitutes its content.
Should the attempt be acceptable to you, I propose in future articles
to put into a somewhat connected form a very brief outline of the philo¬
sophical systems to which I have adverted. The undertaking is not an
ambitious one, and will pretend to no originality of treatment or criti¬
cism. And I shall have before my eyes the fear of some among your
readers, who are thoroughly competent to detect and expose any error
into which I may fall, or ignorance which I may betray, in representing
such abstruse thoughts. C. C. Massey,
June 11th.  -
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—Will you permit me, through the columns of your valuable
paper, to bear my testimony to the wonderful power of Mr. Fletcher, by
describing as concisely as I can, the results of a very pleasant visit I
paid to No. 14, Southampton-row, on May 29th? I was quite a
stranger to the medium, and having made no appointment was puzzled
when he said that an hour had been reserved for me, but the Indian
spirit “ Winona ” taking control explained that one of my guides had
preceded me, and secured the interview. She then spelled out his
name, told me the particular work for which he was appointed, described
the members of my family, alluded to the home influence, gave the
name in full of a sister-in-law of mine, whom she correctly stated was a
medium, and added so many particulars, that I exclaimed “Why,
Winona, you seem to know as much about me as I do of myself!”
She then described the spirit of a young relative, not long passed
away, as standing by me, giving both Christian and surname, said what
a blow his death had been to his father, as he had just reached his
majority, and great things had been hoped of him. He then showed
her a ring on his hand, which to me was a convincing test, as itreminded
me of a promise I had made him in his last illness. His spirit mother
was described at his side, and the full name of a relative of his was
given.
Winona said that many other spirits were present and wishing to
communicate, but the power was going. She explained that she was
simply a messenger between me 'tmd my spirit friends, and repeated
what they told her.
I think Mr. Fletcher’s form of mediumship is a most valuable one,
and I trust he may be the means of convincing many of the truth of
Spiritualism. Elizabeth Brewerton.
Whetstone, Middlesex, June 5th.
Sir,—While sitting with Mr. J. W. Fletcher, on Saturday afternoon
last, a communication was given purporting to come from the spirit of
J. H. Powell, in which regret was expressed at his not having succeeded
in being recognised, when speaking through the medium at a seance
held at the British National Association of Spiritualists’ premises, on
Friday, the 18th ultimo. He stated that on a future occasion he hopes
to have an opportunity of speaking to his wife, who, he said, is at the
present time residing in England, and to whom he has an important
communication to make. This was explained to be the first opportunity
he had of reverting to the misunderstanding which had apparently
arisen as to his identity, and he desired me to report that his name was
J. II. Powell, so that the omission might be rectified. I would take
this opportunity to add that in the course of this seance “Winona”
afforded me fresh proofs of the presence of, and communications from, a
relative recently deceased, the nature of which, however, is of too
private a character for me to state publicly.
The following is a copy of a certificate which has been handed to Mr,
J. W. Fletcher;—
“ To Mr. J. William Fletcher, of Boston, U.S.A.
“We, the undersigned, having attended one or moro of a series of seances,
and received communications through your medial powers, in which evidence
* As I remarked in the discussion on that paper, the direction of motion seems to be
implicitly contained in the postulate of motion itself.
286
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 15, 1877,
of the identity of departed spirit friends has been afforded to our entire satis¬
faction, it is with pleasure we perform the duty of testifying our conviction,
from individual experience, as to the genuineness of your mediumistic powers.
“ Signed:—Thomas Blyton, lion. sec.; Enrico Rondi, Marianne Noakes,
Caroline Corner, Emma Cook, Kate Selina Cook, Sarah Pearce, M. Theresa
Wood, Eliza Grove, John T. Dales, T. Garrard, Nina Corner, Henry Cook,
Augusta Brittan.
“ 72 and 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E., 30th May, 1877.”
Thomas Blyton.
72, Navarino-road, London.
VEGETARIANISM. i (
Sir,—Mr. Varley, Mr. Reimers, and “ Delta ” have so nearly agreed j
with my argument, that I shall only ask you to insert a few words. The i
argument that the teeth of man are “nearest to those of the ape’s ” is ||j
of value, as it is clear that those apes nearest to man have large canine |
teeth, and are, as Owen has pointed out, of a more carnivorous character i j
than those beneath them in the scale. That the gorilla devours small | j
birds is more than probable; that the chimpanzee and ouran-outau | i
greedily eat, and thrive on chopped meat, can be seen by the visitors to | (j
any zoological garden. I cannot myself accept the “ derivation ” theory j > I
of the descent of man from ape. Man has, in proportion to his body, I / i
a shorter alimentary canal than herbivora ; a longer one than carnivora, i (|
The bat has certainly a very short alimentary canal; but the same may IJi
be said of nearly all the insectivorous mammalia. The Gauchos of the i |
Argentine provinces may be taken as a race of athletic men, constantly j (i
in the saddle, and on the whole, as Darwin has shown, remarkably free 11:
from disease. Urquiza and Rosa's were highly intellectual Gauchos, j) 1
whatever may be said of their moral character. The diet of the Gaucho I (I
is almost entirely animal, and consists of beef, without any vegetable | j j
whatever. ! |
As a former resident in the tropics, during the fearful cholera season | j
in Nicaragua of 1867-8, let me say that I have physically suffered from j[i
the absolute privation of meat. The great heats which prevailed, even i |
during the wet season, had no effect in abating the natural desire, which |(l
I satisfied some months after with great advantage to my health. Mr. j) j
McKinney states that the German soldiers fought battles and made in
marches on “vegetable sausages.” Allow me to remark that the j j
erbwsurst supplied to the German army during the war contained a large I (j
proportion of animal fat, and also many fibres which I conjecture to be ill
those of bacon or ham. The taste and odour of kreatine appears |(|
strongly when the sausage is prepared as pease soup, and I have |
frequently consumed soup which contained a far less proportion of in
animal matter. Plenty of erbwsurst can now be purchased in London at (
the cheapest price. It is not very much unlike “ pemmican,” and is ||
far more pleasant to the taste. At the same time I frankly admit that •(]
the English cookery of the present day might include a larger proper- ; j
tion of vegetable. Soupe maigre is quite unknown, though sorrel grows i {i
in our fields; salads are never seen on the tables of the poorer classes; \l\
haricot beans and macaroni are neglected, for the reason that the average j j
British housewife cannot cook them. A lesson from our Italian or |||
French friends might give many a poor man a wholesome meal, from j (
which our insular obstinacy at present precludes him.
G. Carter Blake. m
Sir,—A few of your readers having supplied you with an account of |
the effect of abstaining from the use of animal food, I subjoin, from the
Antiquities of the Jews, by Josephus, page 228, a statement of a similar j,
trial by Daniel the Prophet, and others, when prisoners at Babylon,
which may be likewise interesting:—
“ Now Daniel and his kinsmen had resolved to use a severe diet, and
to abstain from those kinds of food which came from the king’s table, and j
entirely to forbear to eat of all living creatures: so he came to Ashpenaz,
who was that eunuch to whom the care of them was committed, and
desired him to take and spend what was brought for them from the king;
but to give them pulse and dates for their food, and anything else,
besides the flesh of living creatures, that he pleased, for that their in- ]
clinations were to that sort of food, and that they despised the other.
He replied, that he was ready to serve them in what they desired, but
he suspected that they would be discovered to the king, from their j1
meagre bodies, and the alteration of their countenances; because it i |
could not be avoided but their bodies and colours must be changed with i i
their diet, especially while they would be clearly discovered by the finer
appearance of the other children, who would fare better, and thus they j ]
should bring him into danger, and occasion him to be punished : yet did ! i
they persuade Arioch, who was thus fearful to give them what food they |1
desired for ten days, by way of trial; and in case the habit of their jj
bodies were not altered, to go on in the same way, as expecting that 11
they should not be hurt thereby afterwards; but if he-saw them look i1
meagre, and worse than the rest, he should reduce them to their former j,
diet. Now when it appeared they were so far from becoming worse by i i
the use of this food, that they grew plumper and fuller in body than H
the rest, insomuch, that he thought those who fed on what came from i
the king’s table seemed less plump and full, while those that were with 11
Daniel looked as if they had lived in plenty, Arioch, from that time, i1
securely took himself what the king sent every day from his supper, j J
according to custom, to the children, but gave them the fore-mentioned j i
diet, while they had their souls in some measure more pure, and less i <
burdened, and so fitter for learning, and had their bodies in better tune i j
for hard labour; for they neither had the former oppressed and heavy i <
with variety of meats, nor were the other effeminate on the same ij
account; so they readily understood all the learning that was among i <
the Hebrews, and among the Chaldeans, as especially did Daniel, j
who, being already skilled in wisdom, was very busy about the inter- ij
pretation of dreams ; and God manifested himself to him,” M. T. |
Stoke Newington, June 8th, 1877. ''
Sir,—I left off eating meat eighteen months ago. I was led to do so
by reading some pamphlets in which the pictures of the health, strength,
happiness, and virtue enjoyed by vegetarians quite fascinated my
weary spirit. For some time previously I had been in a state of ill-
health, from overwork at Cambridge.
Immediately on beginning my new system of diet my health improved;
and, if I may trust my own feelings and the congratulations of my
friends, it has continued to do so up to the present time. My muscular
power has not diminished; my senses of sight, smell, and hearing and
taste have become more acute; and my brain power has also increased.
As my tastes lead me to a sedentary, student-life, this is my chief
source of self-gratulation.
I, therefore, intend to continue this system of diet, as, at all events,
suitable to my individual constitution, making me, I believe, stronger,
wiser, and better and happier than I should otherwise be. I do not
wish, however, dogmatically to assert that every one should do or think
as I think or do with regard to vegetarianism, or any other ism that may
spring up in society. The universe, or nature, developes an infinite
variety of forms in both her inorganic and organic realms, and I see no
reason for thinking she will cease to do so in the course of human
development. In matters of science there can be only one true
opinion; but in matters of art, especially the art of living, the duty of
the artist is to develop his own individuality to the utmost of his
power. I believe the grand aim of all who wish to influence the
thoughts and acts of others should be to further the “ development of
humanity in its richest possible diversity,” and not to endeavour to fetter
nature, which cannot be fettered by any uniform, but finite standard.
The potentialities of nature are far beyond our present conceptions or
aspirations, and I believe man best aids nature in her work of self¬
development by developing his own nature to the utmost of his power.
Vegetarianism is one of the “ experiments in living ” that J. S. Mill
wrote his treatise on Liberty to defend; and it is only from the stand¬
point that the individual is sovereign over actions which solely concern
himself, that I defend vegetarianism.
Many vegetarians, I am aware, regard their habit of life in almost a
religious light, attempting to prove, from Biblical and other historical
evidence, that man cannot bring his nature to the highest pitch of per¬
fection, whatever that may be, without following this system of living;
and they assert that many of the wisest and noblest knowers and doers
of past time were vegetarians. Thus in a little fly-leaf published by the
Society (91, Oxford-street, Manchester, where all the literature of
vegetarianism may be obtained), I find it stated that Pythagoras, Plato,
Plutarch, Diogenes, Zeno, St. Chrysostom, Porphyry, John Wesley,
Swedenborg, John Howard, Shelley, Wordsworth, and Alphonse de
Lamartine, were wholly or for a time vegetarians.
As I am myself a believer in the principles of evolution, I do not
regard vegetarianism in this light. Perhaps it might even be defended
from this point of view by a pantheist, if we agree with Spinoza “ that
that which disposes the human body to be affected in various ways, and
renders it apt to affect external bodies in return in various ways, is
useful to man.” Or, again, “ the better we understand individual
things the more do we know God.” But I do not here pretend to defend
vegetarianism on this highest of all grounds. I merely give my per¬
sonal experience. Many other vegetarians would defend their peculiar
habit of life from this religious point of view with much greater force
and power than I do.
The rationale of the beneficial effects of vegetarianism on healthy
and unhealthy people seems to be this: when we eat meat, together
with the various albuminous and fatty substances furnishing energy to
the system, we must swallow a quantity of excretory products—urea, uric
acid, &c.—which the animal would have eliminated from his system
during the next twenty-four hours if it had lived, thus entailing upon
our own excretory organs double work of purification, viz., to get rid of
our own excretions plus the excretions eaten of other animals. Now, in
fruits and farinacea there are no such excretory products; we here take
energy-yielding substances pure and simple, and consequently the
necessary amount of nervous energy expended in the work of self¬
purification is less than in the former case. I think that restlessness of
carnivorous animals, as compared with the contented placid enjoyment
of herbivorous animals, may be explained partially from this reason.
And yet the amount of energy displayed by herbivorous animals at
certain periods—in the contests of stags and stallions and bulls—is
not a whit inferior to that displayed in the rush of a lion or tiger on its
prey.
Man’s teeth appear to me more to resemble those of his frugivorous
ancestor the monkey, than those of any other animal. According to
Linmeus, Gassendi, Cuvier, Ray, and Professor Laurence, the shape of
the stomach, the cellulated colon, and indeed the whole of the internal
and external structure of man, also indicate his adaptation to a fruit,
farinaceous, and vegetable diet.
But doubtless man’s form, character, and functions vary with his
environment. He can assimilate, in the times of distress, the most in¬
digestible and repulsive of foods, as for instance in the case of our brave
Welsh miners. It seems to me, however, that as man progresses he
becomes more agricultural and less predatory. The corn-eater sup¬
plants the meat-eater in the struggle for existence among the nations.
The progress of civilisation is to favour the man of “animated modera¬
tion,” we are told, and a vegetarian diet seems to develops this character
of mind, rather than excitability of temperament. I, therefore, have a
theory that the men of the future will more resemble their frugivorous
than carnivorous ancestors.
Vegetarians, I hear, are more common in Germany than they are in
England. The Vegetarian Society has representatives in Silesia,
Calcutta, Hanover, Nordhausen, Germany, New York, Philadelphia,
Florence, and Paris,
Vegetarianism can be defended from other standpoints, economical,
sociologic, and sesthetical, However, it would require more space than
THE SPIRITUALIST,
287
June 15, 1877.
your courtesy would perhaps allow me to occupy, if I attempted to
bring before your notice the many powerful facts and reasonings that
can be brought forward in its favour. B. A. (Cantab).
Sir,—Several years ago I chanced to pass the outside of a slaughter¬
house, and to hear the groan of some animal when struck by the butcher.
That day I could eat no meat for dinner, and subsequently reduced the
amount of meat eaten by me daily to about one-half the quantity con¬
sumed before, and have all along been better for the change, though my
health has always been so invariably good that the difference has been
but slightly perceptible. Sometimes I go for two or three days without
meat; then a desire for it sets in, perhaps in consequence of hereditary
predisposition. If I desired to live altogether on vegetable food there
would be many difficulties, in consequence of an active life amid ever-
changing scenes, and among those who are not vegetarians.
What relation does diet bear to mediumship ? I knew one physical
medium who ate slabs of meat at a sitting, but very little vegetable
food. W. H. Harrison.
88, Great Russell-street, London.
Sir,—^Vegetarianism means non-stimulation, and is at the opposite
end from alcoholism (let the mere fact of the pabulum being animal or
vegetable be now disregarded) and such like stimulation. The consti¬
tution to which the whip of stimulation has been too frequently applied
cannot have the same reserve force from which we may (exact an excita¬
tion.
It is necessary that there should be such a reserve of vitality, and
therefore vegetarianism is good in so far as it means constitutional con¬
servatism. I have had an opportunity of observing this in the case of
the East Indian Coolies. I found that they were much subject to ulcer¬
ations on the legs, and that these sores spread very rapidly. They are
nearly all vegetarians by religion, so that the doctor is debarred from
giving them a meat diet. However, they do not often object to take
medicine. I gave them the Liebig’s Extract of Meat as a medicine put
up in a bottle and labelled. The good effect of this was invariably
marvellous. I do not think that so good a result could possibly be
attained in the case of flesh-eaters, simply because the stimulant of the
meat would not be a stimulant to them, and would not be so decidedly
the thing wanted. Of course the flesh-eaters are not so subject to
ulcerations as the vegetarians, but it seems to me that herein is seen the
abuse of vegetarianism, and not its use, for it is plain that the vege¬
tarians have a greater power in their hands to regulate their food from
a lower diet upwards.
On the whole I found that among the negroes taken into the hospital,
and also those coolies who could be put on a generous diet, there was a
much greater tendency to the healing of wounds rapidly and without
suppuration than among the Europeans (living as Europeans do) in
this or any country. It was simply that the natives were much more
subject to ulcerations—a sign of debility—from the abuse of, and much
more amenable to treatment from the proper use of an extended
dietary.
As to the effect of vegetarianism in moulding the character, it is one
of the common mistakes to suppose that it has much effect in this way
at all. A bellicose, active, or slothful individual will remain such under
any diet, perhaps plus or minus, as the case may be, a certain amount
of irritability induced by the immediate change.
Practically, however, it seems as if there may be a deal of truth in
Dr. W. B. Carpenter’s explanation, viz., that pure vegetarians must
take an excess of food to supply the required amount of nitrogenous
matter, and pure flesh-eaters an excess of meat to supply the required
amount of carbonaceous matter, and that the omniver, striking at the
happy medium, will require a very much smaller dinner than either of
the two former classes. This is very likely; nevertheless, it seems to
me that, given an unlimited power of digestion, the purely vegetable
diet may be all sufficient, and not at all so wasteful as would be implied
by the above. That vegetable diet is conducive to the development of
spirituality we may well suppose. I have spoken of stimulation as
being directly opposed to vegetarianism, and what do we find more un¬
suitable for spiritual sensitives than alcohol? Again, vegetarianism,
abstainence, and the subjection of all sensuous passion are nearly
synonymous ideas.
Many mistakes must have arisen from not considering the power of
assimilation first, and the matter to be assimilated secondarily. In
other words, given digestion ad lib, the kind of diet is of no importance.
I fear I am now trespassing on your space. I can only add that I
gave vegetarianism a partial trial myself, and failed through untoward
condition of which not the least was hereditary. It is very true, as Mr.
G. F. Green says, that{< no hard and fast line will meet all the exigencies
of life.” H. M. M.
Sir,—I have pleasure in testifying to the beneficial effects I have
derived from a partial vegetable diet. I am not what is termed a strict
vegetarian. I eat fish, eggs, butter, and fowl, but rarely touch beef,
mutton, or pork; and to follow the principles of vegetarianism, I under¬
stand, is to eat none of the above-mentioned articles. Nevertheless, I
have derived great benefit from ceasing to eat flesh-meat, which is my
own simple testimony in favour of the diet I have adopted; but it does
not necessarily follow because I have derived benefit from following
such a course, that others would therefore be benefited, for “ what is
food to one is poison to another.’ ’ For three years I was compelled to
dine upon beef, mutton, or pork five days per week, or to go without,
and content myself with tasteless boiled vegetables, water, and bread.
During that period I contracted some disagreeable complaints—indiges¬
tion, heaviness, head-aches, constipation, and never felt in my previous
good health, although I had been a flesh-eater before, but not to the
j; same extent by one half. After my three years’ apprenticeship to this
d compulsory beef-eating system, I had the pleasure of being able to
)l adopt a more suitable diet, which I at once did, and, after a few
[l months, I regained my usual health and strength; no head-aches,
i[ no indigestion, no constipation, no heaviness. I felt renovated. I
»j abstain from alcoholic liquors, and seldom, if ever, drink water.
11 After a small cup of cocoa at eight o’clock every morning, I
i! never take any kind of liquid until I return home in the evening, but
'I eat fruit. My diet is more expensive than a simple flesh one. My wife,
|| who is of a bilious temperament, has derived an incalculable amount of
benefit by adopting a similar diet to my own. My conclusions are :—
Firstly. A moderate diet for all constitutions, of whatever kind of food,
will produce better results, and give better health, than the two ex¬
tremes, living too well or the opposite. Secondly. The desire for flesh-
| meat may be so thoroughly ingrafted in some organisms, hereditarily
| and by practice, that it would be dangerous to abandon such diet for a
frugivorous or vegetable one; yet I see no reason why a modification of
i a flesh diet should not be tried, and with beneficial results, even by the
most carnivorous. Thirdly. Constitutionally we differ ; hereditary
| transmissions vary, and often our surrounding circumstances favour a
flesh or frugivorous diet. We, therefore, cannot always live upon such
I food as we wish, but we should endeavour to minimise our desire for
flesh. Fourthly. The great pivot of the revolving arguments on this
subject has been our teeth, some writers contending that the teeth are
best adapted for herbivorous, and some for carnivorous, food. My ob¬
servations on this point show me a great absence of the fang-like teeth
| peculiar to beasts of prey, in the human race; they seem to be more
adapted to masticate grains and fruits than to tear flesh from bones.
One point in our physiological construction is seldom considered, that is,
our facial and disposition-like relation to the lower kingdom. We find
men of the lion, tiger, and fox disposition, many also of the eagle and
vulture; we look again and find some of the sheep, cow, and horse dis¬
position, all presenting points of resemblance more or less in facial
| development. May this have anything to do with our desires for different
| kinds of food ? It seems probable. Perhaps if a lion were fed upon fruit
i and bread he would soon sicken and die, like the man your correspond¬
ent names, who endeavoured to retrace his steps but died, and yet hun¬
dreds of men have been vegetarians all their lives. Perhaps if each
studied his individual relation to the animal kindom, he would there
find the best suggestions what to eat. John Hartley.
i Bi’ooklands, Hyde, June 10th, 1877.
) i TRANCE mediumship.
Sir,—On Saturday last Mr. E. W. Wallis concluded a series of eight
) I trance addresses at the rooms of the British National Association of
< | Spiritualists, 88, Great Russell-street, to a small but very appreciative
1 audience, and several who have attended this course of lectures regularly
have expressed a hope that at some early and convenient time a similar
opportunity may be afforded to Spiritualists and their friends of hearing
I such interesting spirit teachings from Mr. Wallis’s guides.
The various subjects submitted by the audience for consideration have
j always been treated so ably and exhaustively, and have covered so
wide a range of the spiritual philosophy, that it is to be regretted so
| comparatively few have availed themselves of such an excellent oppor-
| tunity of becoming acquainted with the higher forms of spirit teaching;
but no doubt the opportunity will be repeated, and, it is to be hoped,
); will be availed of by an extended circle of hearers, as such addresses
< j deserve to be widely known and appreciated. W. H.
Mrs. Powell, widow of the late J. H. Powell, was married a second
time a few weeks ago in the United States.
| Every week some correspondents try to throw pressure upon our
printers, by sending in at the last moment communications which might
have been written four days earlier.
The address of the Mrs. Miller (medium), said by Mr. J. M. Peebles
to be able to get materialisation manifestations on the bare ground, in
the open air on a starlit night, in full view of the observers, is 13, St.
Martin-street, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.
The Marylebone Association of Spiritualists will hold a concert next
Monday, 18th June, for the benefit of its funds. This society is working
well, under the administration of its active secretary, Mr. Chas. White,
and is deserving of support. The concert will be held at the rooms of
the Association, 25, Great Quebec-street, Marylebone, commencing at
7.30 p.m.
The Little Bouquet, a monthly Spiritualist journal for children,
issued at Chicago for several years, suspended or stopped publication
in May last. It was one of the most creditable American periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, unique in its character, and would have
been received with favour in this country had it been better known.
The British National Association of Spiritualists ought to have a com¬
plete set in its library for historical purposes if all the numbers are
obtainable.
Spiritualism in Liverpool.—On Sunday evening, June 10th, Dr.
William Hitchman gave, at the Meyerbeer Hall, Liverpool, the first
lecture on the “ Power of Knowledge,” introductory to a future course
of Sunday evening addresses at the above institution. This platform
will henceforth be devoted not only to modern Spiritualism, but to
science and philosophy, physical, intellectual, and moral, including
lectures on literature, history, and arts—especially in their bearing
upon the spiritual improvement and social welfare of all classes of the
people. Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mi\ John Priest, and other favourite
speakers are associated with Dr. Hitchman in carrying out this under¬
taking, to provide lay sermons on topics of interest.
288
THE SPIRITUALIST,
June 15, 1877.
A SPIRIT MESSAGE.
The following message was given through the writing j
mediumship of Dr. Dexter to the late J. W. Edmonds, |||
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, and is extracted j j
by us fromVol.I. of Judge Edmonds’book on Spiritualism: | |
If all minds were alike, and all men gifted with the same : j
faculties and properties of intellect, there would be no difii- j j
culty in propagating truth as it is, unshorn of all charac- j |
teristics—plain, simple truth. Man is as susceptible of error j ;
as of truth, and it is only those minds which seem intuitively j j
to comprehend its nature that are ready to receive truth I I
under whatever form it may assume. There are men who ||
contest truth, even when convinced of its reality, or neces- n
sity. It is to such minds that we are to teach, not the higher j
manifestations, but the simpler forms; that if indeed they j !
reject, the influence it may have shall not comprehend all I j
that is important for man to know. Then what is to be j j
done when all demonstration may be perverted by one, re- l)j
jected by another, and denied and reviled by many? Is | I
there not in the truth itself a power sufflcient to overcome j j
all opposition, all perversion, and accomplish its design and |)|
purpose of itself ? Can that which so essentially concerns | I
man, as the knowledge of what is right, be diverted, be made j j
to produce evil instead of good? Shall those laws which j j
indeed are from God, and when properly and wisely under- jjj
stood answer the intent for which they were instituted, be I j
forced by man to the injury of his race? Alas! it is so. .mi
Alas! that this should be the great obstacle to man’s pro- j
gress on earth, and, in fact, is an all-powerful cause of his j
lingering by the wayside even in these spheres. What do |
I say, that truth itself is made a means of evil ? Yes, and j 1
the history of man from the earliest period until the present I !
time corroborates this statement. Look at every nation of m
which we have any knowledge, that has made its mark on j j
the passage of time, and you will agree with me that my j j
remark is just. That there has been no settled belief on j j
what has been revealed as true does not in the least alter • j j
the truth itself. From the beginning until the present time i j
the eternal manifestation has been the same yesterday, now, j j
and forever. What has been truth to the Egyptians is no j j
less truth to the Romans; and the divine emanation has nj
lost none of its purity, its godlike attributes, even though j j
that truth is altered or denied by the mass of men at the j j
present day. In your earth, light is from one source, and j I
your philosophers have invented means by which they have j j
divided it into what they call its several properties or colours. I j
So with truth. Man’s ingenuity has succeeded in giving it jjj
so many forms, that it has lost its distinguishing quality, j (|
and under the aspect they exhibit it in, it has little or no j j
correspondence with the original idea. What, then, shall n|
be done? How convince your minds that what we teach j j
is true? How show you that you are not perverting the jjj
form of truth, and are not in your designs giving to the j i
world that which bears no resemblance to the original, and jjj
which may generate evil instead of good ? How know you j j
that we have not pandered to those latent passions of your j j
heart, that in their free exercise you may conserve the in- | I
jury of your race, instead of the good which you believe jjj
to be your desire ? Let us see. On retroviewing the his- Ijj
tory of man, we are struck with one prominent feature I I
which that history presents. Though it may be masked by j j
the peculiarities or eccentricities of his tribe or nation, we ijj
still find this characteristic to obtain, whether to the indi- j||
vidual or to the race itself. Thus the Romans forced all \\\
men to become Romans, or at least to feel the omnipotency j I
of their power as a nation; neither were they satisfied ijj
until they had incorporated into their government even the jjj
most distant countries, or forced them to pay tribute to their ill
treasury, or to acknowledge the supremacy of their laws, jjj
It was so with the earlier nations; and from thence until j j
the present day it has been a struggle with the powers of j j
earth to embrace under their own rule as many of the jjj
weaker nations as it was possible, in order to( exercise an jjj
authority which should distinguish their possessions as be- i j
longing to or incorporated with their home government.
This feeling is not more a feature of general national con- jjj
cern than it is of sect or denomination, whether it regards ijj
administration of laws or the dissemination of faith, the
1 advancement of good or the exercise of ambition, of
cupidity, or evil of any kind. There has not existed on this
earth a sect, a persuasion, an association, or a church but
has exhibited this marked, this almighty desire to persuade
all men that they were right — to show by indubitable
authority that to them, as a sect, the truth was given, and
that no one could be saved unless he conformed to the re¬
quirements of their faith.
And the desire to make proselytes has not been limited
to a fair and impartial exhibition of their claims, but they
have forced their belief by the sword, the cannon, the tor¬
ture, and the faggot. Can it be that the truth needs sup¬
port from the unlicensed bigotry and passions of men ?
From the teachings of Aristotle to the protestations of
Luther, aye, from the church of St. Peter to the log meet¬
ing-house of some Methodist preacher—in all ages, by all
men, by saint, by savage, or divine—the whole history of
man teems with evidences of the correctness of my sayings.
And how is this ? I have already answered, that man, be¬
lieving from the evidences he recognises, insists that he
alone is in possession of truth, and that others must believe
as he dictates.
My friends, has this been the method I have pursued in
my instructions ? Have I, or has Swedenborg, insisted
that you should believe what we have taught to be alone
the truth? Have we raised your view heavenward, that
the light thereof should fill you with pride or excite your
vanity ? Does, indeed, what we profess to have taught yon.
as truth develop in you a desire to build up a name and
fame as individuals ? Have we taught you that the God
you love regards you as progressing toward his purity when
actuated by the passions which retard your progress, such
as pride, vanity, or ambition ? To what end have we de¬
sired that any should be forward in the cause of truth ? By
any particular doctrines they were to inculcate, other than
that man, influenced by circumstances surrounding him,
was to work out his own salvation by denial, by self-sacri¬
fice, by endurance, by persistent perseverance ? Were they
to be thus forward to gain the vain title of leader ? Could
it satisfy them that man should recognise them as such,
when, indeed, their hearts were filled with all the passions
of the man, instead of the attributes of a progressive
spirit?
It is not to be told you at this time that there is as yet
no common ground for Spiritualists to meet upon. And
why ? Because all desire to impress the mind that they
are the favoured recipients of spirit truth. And what will
time say to this ?
What will time say to this ? What will it say to you who
are borne along by its resistless tide ?
It will say to you, Man, the truths you avow are the
seeds of discord to thousands of your fellow-men. The
assurances you have given to the world are firebrands
which have burned up the faith of a nation. A nation!
verily the world! And yet, though your names will be in
every man’s mouth, how know you that the revilings, the
epithets, the curses that will be uttered, will not make
your souls tremble and your courage falter? Have you
vanity? Let it run riot now, for the time will come when
even that vanity will not afford you consolation. Have
you ambition ? Let it soar in its wildest graspings, for the
time is not far distant when the truth alone will hardly
afford light to the dark way before you.
Be sure that in the integrity of your own single-hearted¬
ness, in your sole interest for the good of man, will rest
your hope when there shall be clouds and darkness.
Now let vanity exert her sway and ambition her power;
let the mind build up visions of glory and of renown; but
before you both there is but one object—the progressive
development of your own souls; for without that you will
be but stumbling-blocks in the way of truth—an eyesore in
the path of holiness.
Mb. D. H. Wilson, M.A., has returned to London from Algiers.
M. Bassompierre, President of the Belgian National Association of
Spiritualists, intends to come to London in a few days time.
The Baron and Baroness von Yay will visit England in the autumn,
and will no doubt receive a warm welcome from their many Spiritualist
friends in this country.
June 15, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
fii
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
aalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, hut the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY and MODERN
SPIRITUALISM, by Eugene Crowell, M.D., of New York.
This is a standard work on Spiritualism by a competent observer,
i.- who, after studying its facts for many years, has drawn from
them only such conclusions as they warrant, and who has com¬
prehensively dealt with the whole subject. In two volumes,
price 10s. Od.per volume.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Is. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. Is. cd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, With gilt- edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.’
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York. US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred A. Binney, A practicaUy useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE OTHER WORLD, by the Rev. G. F.
Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yolk, crown 8vo.. 16s.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ahility, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken hy Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents : The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be-
ieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.i
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens ■ these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumshipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation Is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of atrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, Is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. fid.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PL ANETX by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. O. Barrett,
7s. fid.
AROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. * 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crcsiand, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD'S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
68. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE, described by a Spirit
through a Writing Medium. 3s.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. cl.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Yol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . .70
The Teacher. ,, II. ,, . . . . 7 0
The Seer. „ III, ,, . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . . , . . .70
The Thinker. „ Y. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis . . .70
i Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . . 3 fi
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .70
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . .70
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . , . . .30
History and Philosophy of Evil , . . . .36
Harbinger of Health . . . . . . .70
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .30
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . .70
Philosophy of Special Providence ...... ,2 C
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .86
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .70
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . .00
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained : . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .60
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology. . . . .30
Morning Lectures • , . . ..76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spikitoamst Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . .50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 0
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A^ Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 C
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Transited into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 3
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fisko. M. A. . 10 0
A ■'tin r, T TTivt/J . A *•    1 T 1 -•    r
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith.
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . 2
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople , . . . . . 12 0
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . ; . . 18 C
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale , . . . . 10 fi
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
AMERICAN PAMPHLETS.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. Is.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. Is. fid.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
Is.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning, fid.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R T.
Halloek Soiled, Is.
THE LIFE OF MARY WHITTEY, the Catholic
Medium, by A. B. Dorman, of Connecticut. Is.
THE VOICE OF PRAYER, a Poem by W. S. Barlow,
fid.
NEW TESTAMENT MIRACLES AND MODERN
MIRACLES COMPARED, by J. H. Fowler. 2s.
PHILOSOPHY OF SPECIAL PROVIDENCES, A
Vision, by Andrew Jackson Davis. In paper wrapper. Is.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY.
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other minerai
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
I he above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. fid. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
London, W.C.; or of Mr. John Rouse, SO, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Mediumship ; its nature ajjd
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for fid.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want amoug a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
iv
THE SPIKITUALIST,
June 15, 1877,
HE GREAT QUESTION OF THE DAF.
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to be left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless? The Kmes states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may be set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PBINCE
ALBERT THE GEE AT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day,' while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
INQUESTS.— A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREVENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions gf the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
invaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of ENO'S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the jeopardy of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Tbirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
must be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT io be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L A.C., London, writes:—
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A Gentleman writes:—“ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.’’—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexbam, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost always recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says he never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL.”
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Ayent for Paris—PH ARM ACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX.
THE REALITY OF SPIRIT
PROVED FROM RECORDS AND WORKS ON THE
SUBJECT.
BY “M.A. (OXON.).”
Introductory Chapter.—The general aspect of the subject:
its many-sidedness. Certain broad views to be more par¬
ticularly illustrated in subsequent sections. The claims and
present position of Spiritualism.
SECTION I.
Historical.—A retrospect of the history of the subject, illus¬
trated from Epes Sargent’s Planchette (reviewed), Mrs.
Hardinge Britten's History of American Spiritualism,
Wallace’s Miracles and Modern Spiritualism. Howitt's
History of the Supernatural, Shorter’s Two Worlds, Judge
Edmond's Tracts.
SECTION ft
Scientific.—Dealing with some aspects of the phenomena of
Spiritualism in reference to theories and explanations that
have been given. Hudson Tuttle’s Arcana of Spiritualism,
(reviewed). Hare’s Spiritualism Scientifically Explained,
Crooke’s Researches, De. Morgan’s From Matter to Spirit.
SECTION III.
Phenomenal.—Dealing with published accounts of form-
manifestation, especially from Olcott’s People from the
Other World (reviewed), Epes Sargent’s Proof Palpable of
Immortality, Wolfe’s Startling Facts in Modern Spirit¬
ualism. .
SECTION IV.
Religious.—Showing the religious side of the subject as
brought out in Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modern
Spiritualism (reviewed), Dale Owen’s Address to the Clergy
in his Debateable Land, S. C. Hall’s Use of Spvritualism.
SECTION V.
Clairvoyance.—Dealing with the inherent powers of the
incarnate human spirit, especially that of clear-seeing or
supersensuous perception, as exemplifled in simple dear-
sight or psychometrically in Denton’s Soul of Things, and
Andrew J. Davis’s Magic Staff (reviewed), Cahlagnet’s
Arcana de la vie Future.
SECTION VI.
Occultism.—Dealing further with certain occult powers of
the human spirit, and with phenomena attributable to them,
as shown in Art-Magic, Ghost-Land (reviewed), and further
illustrated by records of phenomena hitherto unpublished.
THE TRANS-CORPORE 4L ACTION OF SPIRIT,
Especially during Sleep: Immediately Before, and at
the Time of Death: and under some Strong Passion
or Emotion.
[This will form a considerable section, distinct from the rest
of the book: and will include a large number of facts, new
and old, arranged on the principle of reference to their deter¬
mining cause, where such can be ascertained.]
NOTE.—The above scheme of the book of essays and
reviews previously announced, is a draft only, subject to any
alterations that may be deemed desirable. It is published
in compliance with a request from many sources for informa¬
tion as to the title and scope of the work. The title now
affixed explains what is intended. The scope of the work is
to notice some aspects of Spiritualism as they are presented in
the works of other authors; and so to point out and summarise
the best books cn the subject.
Though the plan may be modified, it will not bo substan¬
tially changed.
jt The sections which deal with the phenomenal and religious
aspects will be so arranged as not to trench on the works
announced for future publication—Spirit Teachings and
Researches in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism.
M. A. OXON.
The volume will be published at 10s. The names of sub¬
scribers should be sent to F. Percival, 15, Conduit-street, "W.
London, May, 1877.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found*in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications1 that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful," and ask whether the arrangement is ’under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage?” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “ Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
THE SPIRITUALIST FUND.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION FOR 1877 AND 1878.
£ s. d.
Le Comte de Bullet *  50 0 0
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq    20 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq.............i  20 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq 1  15 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq    10 0 0
Alexander Co lder, Esq  10 0 0
N. F. Dawe, Esq   10 0 0
G. O. Joad, Esq  10 0 0
The Hon. A. Aksakof   10 0 0
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D    10 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart     10 0 0
M. R.1  10 0 0
James Mylne, Esq    10 0 0
X    10 0 0
B   .:  6 6 0
O. T    5 5 0
George Sutherland, Esq  5 5 0
T. E. Partridge, Esq    5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq  5 0 0
The Countess of Caithness    5 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun    5 0 0
A Friend    5 0 0
J. Bulteel  5 0 0
M. E. T   5 0 0
B  3 0 0
Mrs. E. Dixon  2 2 0
The Rev. W. Whitear   2 2 0
Dr. Baikie    2 2 0
Miss Whitear    2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., M.R.1  2 2 0
Mrs. Lowe ....; ...'. ;  2 2 0
S. J. H.           2 2 0
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S  2 2 0
Ennesfallen  2 2 0
W. C. Pickersgill, Esq.    2 0 0
W.        2 0 0
G. V    2 0 0
S. T. Speer, Esq., M.D  2 0 0
W. M. Buchanan, Esq., M.D  2 0 0
A. Vacher, Esq  2 0 0
Colonel Olcoit  2 0 0
The Baroness von Vay :  1 10 0
George Lee, Esq     110
G. R. Tapp, Esq    110
Mrs. Maltby.....   110
B. W. Pycock, Esq.    110
Mrs. Nosworthy    110
C. T. Hook, Esq.   110
Major Menars    110
A. Glendinning, Esq  110
T. P. Barkas, Esq., B’.G.S  110
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.TeLE  110
Mrs. Hennings     110
Dr. George Wyld    110
Miss Allen  1 1 G
W. P. Adshead, Esq.   110
John Mould, Esq    110
J. P. Turner, Esq    110
J.T. Dodd, Esq     110
Mrs. Jeffreys     110
J. C. Eno    110
Miss Douglas     10 0
John Scott, Esq  10 0
J. C. Ferguson, Esq  10 0
A. C. Swinton, Esq  10 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   1 0 0
Mrs. Tyndall      100
Lieut.-Col. Jacoby    10 0
John Chapman, Esq  10 0
G. F. Green, Esq      0 10 6
Mrs. E. K. Beeby   0 10 6
R. Catling  0 10 6
E. R    0 10 6
J; Hare, Esq  0 10 0
M. J.Walhouse, Esq  0 10 0
A Friend      0 10 0
A Friend     0 10 0
T. H  0 10 0
Miss Pearce    0 5 0
J. T. M    0 5 0
Subscriptions to this Fund should be remitted to W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
- \  ;
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
THE RELIGION OF JESUS compared with
THE CHRISTIANITY OF TO-DAY. By Frederick
A Binney.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Messrs. Beal, East-street; Mr.
Elmer, St. James’s-street; and Mr. Boughton, St. George’s-
road.
FOR THE TOILET, THE NURSERY, AND FOR SHAVING.
Pure, Fragrant and Durable.
MR. ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S,
States (in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine)
PEAR’S TRANSPARENT SOAP
Is an article of the nicest and most careful manufacture, and
one of the most refreshing and agreeable of balms to the skiu.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers everywhere, and by
Pear’s, 91, Great Russell-street, London.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn.
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
