AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
J. [REGISTEBED fob TEANSMISSION ABEOAD.]
No. 106.—(Vol. V.—No. 10.) LONDON: SEPTEMBER 4, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontenta.
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries  109
Other World: Order. By William White      110
The Material Aspects of the Creation of the Earth  113
The British Jjessodiation at Belfast   ... 114
Spiritualism in Newcaslle-on-Tyne:—History of the Bise and Progress
of Spirititalis'm in Newcastle—A Curious Occurrence at a Seance—
ThePowe’r of a Mesmerist over a Medium—Organisation of Spirit¬
ualists in Newcastle—Newcastle Mediums   ... 114
The Influence of the Mind of the Medium upon Spirit Messages  116
Poetry:—Longfellow on Spiritual Visitors  117
Correspondence:—Professor Tyndall's Address to the British Associa¬
tion—Materialised Spirits at Barrow-in-Furness—The Dalston
Association and National Organisatio'h—National Organisation and
Local Societies—Prayers for the Dead 1  118
Answers to Correspondents       118
Paragraphs:—Swedenborg’s Spiritual Diary, 20; Trance Lecture by
'Mr. Morse, 120; Dr. W.Hitchman “ On the Spirituality of Soul” ... 120
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ABE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 89 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion. London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
‘ Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o'clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FEANCIS BAVENSCBOFT, Manager.
‘NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
_ (Trance Medium).
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Mr. Morse will sail for the United States on Thursday, October loth, 1874.
He has a few vacant dates for September next; early application is
necessary.
Opinions 'of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
ecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'’—Spiritualist.
‘‘ The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—-Fojt&ourae
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.  
MB. J. J. MOBSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
Mohammed and Mohammedanism : Lectures
delivered at the Boyal Institution of Great Britain in February and
March, 1874. By B. BOSWOBTH SMITH, M.A. Crown 8vo., 6s.
“A view of Mohammed’s life and doctrines, perhaps more faithful and
more just than any that has before been published.’’—Academy.
“ A learned, able, and eloquent volume . . . acute thinking, judicial
reasoning, and eloquent exposition.”—^cofsmaw.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association op Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
promote the study of Pneumatology and Psychology; to aid students and
inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal the means of sys¬
tematic investigation into the now recognised facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by
careful scientific research; and to direct attention to the beneficial in¬
fluence which those results are calculated to exercise upon social relation¬
ships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of
every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and
all inquirers into psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Louis Freeman, Tork-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex, of whom
copies of the Constitution and Buies may be had upon application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
AN ORATION will be delivered by Mb. J. J.
MOBSE, under the influence of his Spirit Guides, on SUNDAY
EVENING, 13th SEPTEMBEE, in CLEVELAND HALL, 54, Cleveland-
street, Fitzroy-square.
SUBJECT MAN, HIS GENESIS AND DESTINY.
The doors will be open at 6.30, and the chair will be taken at 7 o’clock,
precisely. Admission FBEE to the body of the Hall, Beserved seats by
ticket Is.
Tickets for reserved seats may be obtained at the “ Pioneer of Progress
Library,” 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn, W.C., or of the Assistant Sec¬
retary,
Mr. Louis Freeman,
York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
~ An opportunity will be given at the close of the meeting to friends and
visitors of contributing towards the expenses.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
TUBES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Booms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Beaeebs fob 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq.
Vice-President.—lAx. John Lament.
Secretary.
Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lament.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale,
Mr. B. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd
Mr. Bretherton.
Mr. Biece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs.'Gay.
Trustees.
| Mr. John Lament.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
I Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.’’) Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
Sept. 4, 1874.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
A MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are:—
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of tho true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Bio hard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. B. Barber.
Committee
Mrs. Barber, 1 Mr. E. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Banger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Eichard Pearce.
YERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in iClerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Association.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at G-oswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
into closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Uommittee
Booms, 30. Parkfleld-street, Islington.
^NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FEEEMASON’S HALL
(WEIR’S COURT),
NEWGATE STEEET, NEWOASTLE-ON-TTNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIBITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Booms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Buies on application to the Secretary.
ALFBED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GBEENE, Hon. Secretary.
Becently published, in Grown 8vo., price 2s.
YMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of-“An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,”-&c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PEOGBESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist.
FULLWOOD’S-EENTS, HOLBOEN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
THE HONEYMOON. Eemembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland
By the Counf de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MB. EOBEET DALE OWEN’S WOEKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDAEY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.’’—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure. By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. B. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—■
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig \
niflcance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubnbr & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Ymsww.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—Si, BERNERS STREET.
. How. Bee.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa),
HENRY_ B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapersand Periodicals supplied. Agent for TrieNewspaper.
THE “PIONEER OF PROGRESS” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATE STREET, HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
In the Printing Department every arrangement has been made for the
prompt execution of all orders. Printing .of all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Reform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application.
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “PIONEER OF PROGRESS” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d. eadh.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientiflc and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “ Fritz,
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman,
20, Patemoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into Spiritualism may obtain,
gratis, all information concerning the various societies, national and local,
seances, mediums, lecturers, &c.
All communications to be addressed, GEORGE Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, W.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psyehologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
VOjLUjVIE FIVE. JHUJVIBEI^ TEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 4th, 1874.
West Sttospapr,
Established in 1869.
CHAKGKE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach, the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of ^ The Spiritualist" in
London op in theprovinoes is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTEALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street,
Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 164, Bourke-street.
Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 176, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. B. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Bichmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Biley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Ordea The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
Jj! E M A L E MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prpspectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
I SpiKiT-PHOTOGEAPHY'and the healing of disease still
continue to he “ the signs which follow them that
believe,” on the Continent. Each month the Revue
Sfirite presents its readers with one of M. Buguet’s
best photographs, which is pasted on to the page it
illustrates. In the August number the sitter claims
the spirit, whose face is very distinct and uncovered, as
his wife. A description is given by Madame Bourdin,
a medium from Geneva, of the process of materialising
for the purpose of being photographed, as seen by her
in a glass of water in M. Buguet’s studio.
Several pages of the Revue are occupied by the
details of two remarkable instantaneous cures
which took place at Chaumont. One sufferer,
Madame Moulun, aged fifty-eight, had been afflicted
with dropsy for fifteen years, and had lately undergone
an operation, which brought her no relief from pain,
and no rest at night, without sleeping draughts. One
evening in February last the patient refused, without
any apparent motive, the proffered draught, and shortly
afterwards, while still conscious, though in a state of
semi-trance, she saw distinctly the form of a woman,
clothed in white flowing drapery, standing by her bed¬
side, and heard her pronounce these words : “ Daughter,
thou art healed /” A current of air passed rapidly over
the patient’s body; she was raised in her bed, and,
sitting up, exclaimed to her daughter, “ I am cured.”
The next morning the husband and doctor were both
completely stupefied, and only replied: “ No one can
understand it.” In this case, and another, also related
in detail, attested by names and dates, in the same
paper, the patients had, previous to the cure, taken
small quantities of the Eau de Lourdes.
The Messager relates a curious experience of a spirit
circle at Brussels. The sitting was held for the benefit
of M. Stassin, who came to seek medical advice. A
message through the table was rapped out that the
remedy would first be brought to the circle, and direc¬
tions for applying it would be afterwards given through
the trance-medium present. At the conclusion of a
prayer which followed, the attention of the sitters was
suddenly directed to a solid, sparkling, brick-shaped
object lying on the floor near to M. and Madame Stassin.
It was formed of small particles of a gum-like sub¬
stance mixed with herbs, the taste of which was quite
unknown to all present. The results of the remedy,
which is to be taken for one month, according to spirit
directions, will be related in a future number of the
Messager. The seance took place in daylight at ten
o’clock in the morning.
In Mexico the Demoerate, a political journal, re¬
proaches the Mexican public with ignorance and levity
in their treatment of Spiritualism, and declares its in¬
tention of not imitating its brethren of the press
without first being better informed than they appear to
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 4, 1874.
110
be of a subject of such vast importance, and in which
so many men of talent are deeply interested.
A Dutch correspondent writes the following from the
Hague:—
“ Some time ago, a very learned Protestant minister
at Amsterdam, Mr. M , visited London, and saw
Maskelyne and Cook’s humbug. On his return here,
he published as his opinion, in a newspaper, that
Spiritualism was all trickery, consequently that I and
the brethren were fools. You can understand that we
could not put up with this, and of course several among
us proved to him that we still had common-sense, not¬
withstanding our investigating Spiritualism; in short,
there was a general attack, from which Mr. M., ac¬
cording to some, has not yet recovered. Among other
nonsense, Mr. M. said that only physiologists and
neurologists could judge of spiritual phenomena ; and
this was how one of our fellow-investigators replied to
him:—
1. I, M., say only physiologists and neurologists can judge
of spiritual phenomena.
2. I, M., am not a physiologist nor a neurologist, but a Pro¬
testant minister.
3. Therefore I, M., cannot judge of Spiritualism.
1. I, M., cannot judge of Spiritualism.
2. I, M., have judged.
3. Therefore I, M., have judged a thing without under¬
standing it.
1. Persons who judge of things they do not understand
behave like fools.
2. I, M., have judged of a thing whereof I am not able to
judge.
3. Therefore I, M., have behaved like a fool.
“ A learned man of science, Mr. Hartogh Heys van
Louteveey, at Assey, is translating articles on Spirit¬
ualism by Messrs. Crookes and Wallace, which he in¬
tends to publish with his own name, as' well as his
experiences with your medium, Mr. C. Williams. This
will be a thunderbolt for his materialistic friends and
the savant class in general here, among whom he is
well known as a materialist and sceptic.
“ Our society, Oromase, is extending, but experience
has made us very cautious in accepting new members; we
prefer a small number of real Spiritualists to a large one
of persons moved only by curiosity.”
OTHER WORLD ORDER.
BY WILLIAM WHITE, AUTHOR OE THE “ LIEE OE SWEDENBORG.”
Ie a Swedenborgian should say, “ You know very
well that Swedenborg lends no sanction to your state¬
ments concerning the future life, and it is disingenuous
to cite him as if he did,” I should reply, that I am far
from certain that we are at variance. It is not easy to
acquire a clear understanding of Swedenborg’s mind
on the larger relations of humanity in the Spiritual
World. A reader of Heaven and Hell would naturally
come to the conclusion that though his damnation
differed from vulgar notions of damnation, still it was
damnation, and as repulsive as incredible. In common
with his predecessors and contemporaries, Swedenborg
exhibits a serene acquiescence in disorder and suffering
outside a, circle of well-to-do. He describes infernal
horrors with the composure of matter-of-course, and
where we should exclaim, ‘‘Where’s the police?” he
proceeds with a bland recital. Thereat a fossil
Swedenborgian finds nothing to objpct. He reads and
he assents. But a man inspired by divine mercy and
reason cannot participate in such equanimity. He asks
why hell should continue a repetition of the jails and
mad-houses of former days wherein-cruelty and folly
dwelt rampant, and what Angels are good for if they
cannot make an end of such infamy and such phantasies.
Since Swedenborg’s time a great change has passed
over mankind. Christians used to be satisfied with the
domestic enjoyment of holiness. Dr. Watts expressed
their temper when he wrote—
“ Whatever brawls disturb the street,
There should be peace at home,”—
the multitude in the street being the foil to the felicity
of the godly, who sang—
“We are a garden walled around,
Chosen and made peculiar ground;
A little spot enclosed by Grace
Out of the world’s wide wilderness.”
Christians now-a-days are less complacent, and cannot
feel at ease whilst their fellow-creatures are otherwise.
As a good man demanded, “ How could I rest in Heaven
as long as there was a poor devil outside ? ”
Having conceded so much, I should be unjust if I
allowed a reader to suppose that Hell is left blazing by
Swedenborg as by Calvin. He did not shudder as we
shudder over the conception of irremediable disorder and
misery, but at the same time he makes a variety of
statements which tend to more cheerful conclusions.
In the first place we have to remark that Hell is with
Swedenborg an essential constituent of the Cosmos. In
so many words he does not say so, but it would be
difficult to conceive the working Universe on his
principles without Hell, which he recognises and
describes, as a geographer would Africa, in the most
matter-of-course fashion. Thus he says—
“ In the globe which is within or above our visible
heavens are all who have died since creation ; the good
dwelling on the surface, which is called Heaven, and
the evil at a great depth beneath them. The globe is
one, but divided as it were into expanses, one below the
other. There are six expanses. In the highest dwell
the Angels of the third Heaven, beneath them the
Angels of the second, and beneath these the Angels of the
first. Below these again dwell the Spirits of the first Hell,
beneath them the Spirits of the second, and beneath
these the Spirits of the third.
“ There are as many Hells as there are Heavens.
Every heavenly society has its opposite in some infernal
society to which it corresponds, which societies are
innumerable. The Hells are arranged so distinctly
according to the differences of every evil, that nothing
more orderly and distinct can be conceived. . . . That
the number of Hells is very great has been proved to
me by the consideration that there are Hells under every
mountain, hill and rock, and also every plain and
valley in the Spiritual World, and that they extend
beneath them in length, breadth and depth. In a word,
the whole Heaven and the whole World of Spirits
[that is Purgatory or the Intermediate State] are, as it
were, excavated, and a continuous Hell stretches beneath
them.
“ All things are arranged in such regular order that
the evil affections, which are Spirits of Hell, are held
in bonds by the good affections, which are Angels of
Heaven; the Spirits of the lowest Hell by the Angels
of the highest Heaven, the Spirits of the middle Hell by
the Angels of the middle Heaven, and the Spirits of the
first Hell by the Angels of the first Heaven.
“ Erom such opposition human affections are kept in
equilibrium like the scales of a balance. The relation
of Heaven to Hell and of Hell to Heaven is like that of
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Ill
Sept. 4, 1874.
two opposites, which mutually act against each other,
and whose action and reaction produce equilibrium, in
which equilibrium mankind subsists. For it is well
known that when two things mutually act against each
other, and the resistance and reaction of'the one are
equal to the impulse and action of the other, neither of
them has any force, because each neutralises the other,
and therefore a third may act between them as if there
was no opposition. Such is the equilibrium between
Heaven and Hell.
“ Unless Man were between Heaven and Hell, he
would have no power of thought, nor any will, and
still less any freedom and choice; for all these flow
from the equilibrium of good and evil.
“ The order and connections of the Heavens and the
Hells are known to the Lord alone, and are the work
of His infinite wisdom and infinite power. Neither
the Angels of Heaven nor the Devils of Hell have any
power whatever of themselves. If they had the least
power, Heaven would fall to pieces. Hell would become
a chaos, and with them every man would perish. The
reason that all power belongs to God is that God alone
is life, and men and angels are mere recipients
thereof.”*
In such passages, which might be extended to
weariness, we have a doctrine of Heaven and Hell
widely different from the common one—a doctrine, too,
which it must be said Swedenborg never fairly faced.
A Hell with functions such as he describes is not a
Hell to be ashamed of or apologised for, unless by a
Manichean. But Swedenborg was no Manichean. On
the contrary, he denies the existence of a personal
Devil, and boldly proclaims that God alone is King of
Hell, and not only King of Hell, but its life.
“ God the life of Hell!” exclaims a reader. Even so ;
and the assertion acquires force with explanation. The
central idea of Swedenborg’s philosophy is that God is
the Life of the Universe, and that nothing does exist,
or can exist, unless by instant derivation from Him;
existence everywhere being perpetual subsistence from
the Divine Son. Thus—
“ Nothing exists, subsists, is acted upon or moved by
itself, but by some other being or agent; whence it
follows that everything exists, subsists, is acted upon,
and is moved by the First Being, who has no origin
from another, but is in Himself the Force which is
Life.”!
Here we have the secret,, of Swedenborg, and until
the secret is appreciated in its proper scope, acquaint¬
ance with him must be superficial and confused; but
when appreciated the unity of Creation is taken as
axiomatic, and we read such remarks as the following
without surprise, if not with acquiescence :—
“ It has been frequently shown me as matter of fact,
that no one either in Heaven or Hell thinks, speaks,
wills, and acts from himself, but from others, and thus
finally all and each from the common influx of life
from the Lord.
“ All alike, men, spirits, and angels think and will
from others, and finally all and everyone from the
Lord.
“ All which man thinks and wills is from the Lord;
neither can the wicked think and will from any other
origin.
* Athanasian Creed, Nos. 34 and 35, and Heaven and Hell, Nos. 536, 537,
546, and 588.
t Athanasian Creed, No. 45.
t Arcana Gcelestia, Nos. 2,556,2,886, 5,847, and 6,986, and Divine Provi¬
dence, Nos. 157 and 160.
Yet alongside these assertions of the utility of Hell
and its life from God, there occur excuses for its
existence which might have been written by John
Wesley or any other Arminian. Thus—
“ The Lord is as far from cursing and being angry
with any one as heaven is from earth; for who can
believe it possible that He who is omniscient and omni¬
potent, ruling the universe by His wisdom, and thus
infinitely above all infirmities, can be angry with such
poor and miserable dust as men are, who scarcely know
anything which they do, and can do nothing of them¬
selves but evil ?
“ True doctrine declares that the Lord never turns
away His face from man, never rejects him, never casts
any one into Hell, and is never angry ; and every one,
whose mind is in a state of illustration, perceives this
when he reads the Word, because God is goodness itself,
love itself, and mercy itself; but goodness itself cannot
do evil to any one, nor can love and mercy cast man
out, because contrary to their very essence, and there¬
fore to the Divine Nature.
“What more pernicious doctrine could have been
devised, or what more cruel notion of God could have
been conceived than that any of the human race are
damned by a positive pre-determined decree? How
cruel is a faith which maintains that the Lord, who is
love itself, and mercy itself, can’ cause a multitude of
men to be born, and devoted to Hell! or that thou¬
sands and tens of thousands are brought into the
world with an inevitable curse on their heads, being in
fact born devils and Satans !”*
Beautiful sentiments, but strangely inconsistent; for
of what avail is it to extol the Divine Goodness at the
cost of the Divine Wisdom and Omnipotence ! I re¬
member a preacher in my youth who was accustomed
to expatiate on the imbecility and depravity of man¬
kind, in contrast with the greatness and holiness of the
Creator, whereat I used to marvel, as an odd style of
glorifying the Maker of mankind; as if discreditable
workmanship could in any wise stand to the credit of
the workman. And so with Swedenborg. He pro¬
ceeds to assure us that though God is willing, Hell is
unwilling; that “the Lord casts no one into Hell, but
whoever goes there casts himself in,” and that “ the
relation of the Lord to an evil doer is like that of a
king, or a judge, or the law, none of which is the cause
of punishment, because none compelled the criminal to
do wrong ”f—a treacherous analogy; for although it
might be argued that neither king, nor judge, nor law
is responsible for the criminal, certainly the Creator
of the criminal must be, and especially the Creator
described by Swedenborg, who is the life of all His
creatures, and without whom “ the Devils of Hell have
no power.”
The inconsistency is manifest; and if asked, How do
you get over it ? how do you account for it ? I reply,
that I do not get over it, and that I account for it by
admitting it. In his ardour against Calvinism he
forgot his own principles, forgot that he was himself a
Predestinarian, teaching—
“ That the Divine Providence exists in the most
minute particulars of nature, and in the most minutd
particulars of human prudence, and, by governing these
particulars, governs universally.
“Every man lives after death to eternity, and
* Arcana Ccelestia, No. 1,093, Heaven and Hell, No. 545, and True Christian
Religion, No. 486.
t Heaven and Hell, Nos. 548 and 550.
112
THE SPIEITUALIST.
Sept. 4, 1874.
according to his life on earth has a place assigned
to him in Heaven or Hell.
“ The Lord sees what a man is, and foresees what he
desires to be, consequently what he will be. Now, as
He foresees the states of all after death, and the places
of those who are not willing to he saved in Hell, and the
places of those who are willing to he saved in Heaven, He
provides for the wicked their places by permitting and
withdrawing, and for the good their places by leading
them. And unless this were done continually from the
birth of every one to his life’s end, neither Heaven nor
Hell could subsist, but would lapse into confusion.”*
Teaching likewise, that whilst we feel free and
independent (and rightly so), the reality is limited to the
sensation, the fact being exactly the reverse, we being
parts of a common humanity, natural and supernatural,
apart from which existence is impossible.
“ No person whatever, Man, Devil, or Angel, is able
to will or think from himself, but from others, and they
again, from others, and all and each nltimately from the
Lord.
“ There are two Spirits from Hell and two Angels
from Heaven associated with every man, and without
such communication with Heaven and Hell, he would
not be able to live for a moment.
u Man thinks and wills as from himself, but it is God
alone who acts: He is the active to whom Man is the
passive, Man, in reaction (likewise from God), acquires
the sensation and appearance of independence, whereby
his conjunction with God is effected.
“ It is from the Lord’s presence that a man is able
to think and will. Without His instant influx, he
would be less than a beast, or even a stock or stone.
In the Spiritual World the matter was once put to the
test. The Divine Presence was, as it were, removed
from a certain Devil, and he fell instantly prostrate like
a corpse/’f
Throughout his works Swendenborg imagined that
he had a controversy with Predestinarians; as, indeed,
he had with such as held that God arbitrarily selects a
minority for everlasting bliss and consigns the vast
majority to everlasting damnation; but an enlightened
believer in predestination, or, as Mr. Bray would say,
in the Philosophy of Necessity, may read his multi¬
tudinous pages with assent, and draw from them innume¬
rable illustrations and confirmations. Of course, such a
philosopher would throw over his representatious of
Hell as a realm of established disorder and misery, as
not only incredible, but irreconcilable with many of his
own sentiments. We have seen the offices he assigns
to Hell in the economy of the universe, and he tells
us—
‘'The Lord secures his ends by means of the wicked
as well as of the good; for He moves the wicked to do
good to their neighbour, their country and the Church,
by their own loves; for the wicked desire to be in
eminence and to procure gain, and therefore they wish
to seem upright and zealous; and from this desire, as
from a fire, they are more strongly excited to activity
than are the upright.
| Suppose there was an infernal kingdom on earth in
which self-love, which is the Devil, had full sway,
would not every member do his duty with greater
vigour than in any other kingdom ? All would have
in their mouths the public good, and in their hearts
* Divine Providence, Nob. 201, 203, and 333.
| Arcana Coelestia, Nob. 2,886, 4,848, and 3,842; Intercourse between Soul
md Body, No. 14; and Imitation to Ntw Church,
nothing but their own good. Inquire everywhere, and
see how many- at this day are governed by aught else
than the loves of self and the world. You will scarcely
find fifty in a thousand who are moved by the love of
God, and of these fifty only a few who care for dis¬
tinction.”*
And in order to do justice to Swedenborg, it is neces¬
sary to detach superstitious associations from the words
Hell and Devil and their correlatives. With him they
are synonyms for the love of self: whoever is
governed by self-love is a Devil and a subject of Hell;
as, on the other hand, whoever is governed by love of
others is an Angel and a subject of Heaven. And
even the infernal horrors which 'he depicts in prose,
like that of Defoe, are susceptible of rational explana¬
tion. No student of Swedenborg should ever forget
that prepossessions govern experience in the Spiritual
World: what you are you see. “ It is to be well ob¬
served,” he remarks, “ that the notions one entertains
on any matter are reflected to the life in the other
world”!—an admission full of significance as regards
his own descriptions of infernal society and scenery,
which not improbably exhibit prejudices which his
philosophy was unequal to overcome. He tells us,
moreover, that vile as Devils may appear to Angels,
“ among themselves they are men, and, according to
their phantasies, not without beauty.’’I In describing
the exquisite discrimination of angelic societies accord¬
ing to specialties of character, he relates how an Angel
is distressed when he ventures out of his sphere, and
ascends into Heavens more interior than his own; and
how it sometimes happens, when an Angel gets separated
from his comrades, “ that he can neither think nor will,
speak nor act, but lies helpless as a new-born babe
until restored to his proper associates.”§ From a
realm so regulated we can only listen to a reporter with
considerable reserve, remembering how apt we all are
to erect our likes and dislikes into universal standards,
and to pronounce that heavenly which affects us agree¬
ably, and that infernal which affects us painfully.
With such allowances, it seems to me that Sweden¬
borg’s view of the constitution of Humanity commends
itself to common-sense. Broadly, it is asserted that
mankind is divided into two sets, the first whose actions
are governed by love of others (a centrifugal force),
and the second whose actions are governed by the love
of self (a centripetal force). Clearly recognising the
necessary existence of these two sets for the perfection
of Humanity, Swedenborg stigmatises the second set as
Hell, and blames it for being Hell. In doing so, we
have to remember his prejudices, and that he wrote in
an age when it was considered philosophical to believe
that men were born free and equal, that circumstances
and education combined to form the character, and
that mind and matter had no definite relations. We
now know' otherwise. We know that character is
defined by physical organisation, that a man is what
his brain is, and that his brain is a result of his
parentage, and that whilst his physique may be
modified by circumstances, it can no more be radically
altered by the individual than by taking thought
he can add a cubit to his stature, or make his hair white
or black, f therefore conclude that what is called
Heaven and what is called Hell are no more than names
for the beneficent and selfish hemispheres of Human
* Arcana Coelestia, No. 6.481, and Divine Providence, No. 250.
t Planets and their People, No. 168.
j Arcana Ccelestia, No. 4,533,
§ Athamsian Creed, No, 46.
Sept. 4, 1874,
THE SPIBITUALIST.
113
Nature, and that as reasonable beings we should
recognise the fact without dismay or indignation. Said
Margaret Fuller to a divine who was apologising for the
existence of the Devil. “Talk not to me of the
superfluity of evil: I accept the Universe.”* It is for
us to try to do so likewise, instead of vainly attempting
to coerce it into some fantastical theological box. The
best of men has a selfish nature, but that infernal
nature is reduced in him to the blameless service of his
beneficent or heavenly nature; and if only the same
operation is effected in universal Humanity, what more
is there to desire ? If the selfish part of humanity,
born selfish, and continuing selfish, is in like manner
subjected to the beneficent and heavenly part, what
harm remains? Hell is only mischievous when left
loose, out of place, and insufficiently mastered. If the
selfish, as Swedenborg says, execute uses with extreme
energy and delight, why should their existence be
deplored either on their own account or on account of
others? And to such subjection of Hell to Heaven,
Swedenborg’s philosophy gives not only hope, but
warrant, to those who care to exercise their judgments
upon it.
THE MATERIAL ASPECTS OF THE CREATION OF
THE EARTH.
(From the li Belfast News-Letter”)
Attention was recently drawn in these columns to the facts
which have been discovered of late years relating to the sun,
the fixed stars, and comets. To complete the picture, it may
not be amiss to consider the nature and the history of our
solar system, including the earth and the various other planets
revolving round our sun, especially as some of these matters
occupied the attention of the British Association during its
present session. The nebular theory of the origin of our
solar system is the one most generally supposed by philosophers
to be true. According to this theory the sun once consisted
of nebulous matter, and its diameter was so great as to more
than fill the orbit of the outermost of the planets. Nebulas
of similar dimensions may now be seen in space by telescopic
aid. As the mass gradually cooled, it left planets or rings
outside it; the rings would in time break up into planets in
obedience to well-established laws. Thus, one after another,
were the planets formed. That so much of the centre of our
earth as we can get at had an igneous origin is certain; the
lower rocks have evidently at one time been fused by intense
heat. Indeed, at the present day, the lower we descend into
the bowels of the earth by means of wells, borings, or mines,
the hotter does it get; and the British Association Committee
on Underground Temperatures spends its time and money year
by year in ascertaining and registering the temperatures,
which invariably increase steadily with increased depth. If
the heat increases in the same ratio at depths which man
cannot reach as it does in depths which he can reach, a
temperature at which iron, granite, and all known
solid substances would melt is reached at a distance of
a very few miles below the surface crust of the earth.
This is not a pleasant thought to dwell upon, but the
facts and figures speak for themselves. Some men
of science, arguing from mathematical data, think that the
globe is too rigid to be composed interiorly of molten rook;
but if it be solid in the centre, with a thin layer of molten
rock everywhere not far below the crust, how came it to cool
fastest near the middle instead of near the outside ? The'
only way to get over this difficulty is to suppose that at some
period of its history, after it had once cooled, it was heated
again on the surface only ; if it ever came into contact with a
very great shower of meteorites, these striking it at planetary
velocities would generate sufficient heat to account for the
facts. As to the age of the globe as indicated by geology, in
many a place in this country the sea has become dry land,
and dry land sea again, by slow and peaceful changes; new
orders of living animals and plants have succeeded each
other; the cave lion and other wild animals now found only
in tropical countries once lived in the United Kingdom, and
* When this anecdote was related to Carlyle, he chuckled cordially,
exclaiming, “ Margaret accepts the Universe! Well done, Margaret! ”
have left their bones behind to tell their own tale. Perhaps
the lowest estimate of the age of the earth which any geolo¬
gist has ever formed is fifty milhons of years, though the
great majority of them would consider that estimate to be as
much under the truth as the sum of one shilling would be to
the total amount of the National Debt. But to return to the
central thread of our story. The sun having contracted to its
present dimensions, how is its heat kept up ? It is not sup¬
ported by common combustion—that is to 'say, it is not
burning as a coal fire burns. The size of the sun has been
often measured, and if it were one great coal freely supplied
with oxygen, it would burn out in a comparatively short time.
This is known approximately with as much certainty as a
chemist could tell by calculation how long it would take a ball
of coal a yard in diameter to burn out. Most magnificent
phenomena are going on in the sun ; storms and cyclones of
fiery matter agitate its surface, and clouds of condensed
vapours above rain down storms of white hot metals upon
other seething masses below. One great source of sustenance
of the heat Of the sun is supposed to be the constant raining
down upon its surface of meteoric stones. When a hammer
rains down blows upon a cold iron nail on an anvil, the nail
may soon be made red hot with the blows, and motion is
never suddenly arrested by the collision of any two solid
bodies without the generation of heat. Even the waves of
the sea warm themselves by tumbling over each other. Planet¬
ary bodies and meteoric stones move with velocities to which
that of a cannon-ball is nothing; sixty miles a second is a
common enough velocity for heavenly bodies. It is known
accurately by calculation how much heat would be ge¬
nerated by the sudden stoppage of a body of known
weight flying through space at a given velocity. Thus
it is known that if the earth were to be suddenly
arrested in its course the heat generated would be suffi¬
cient to melt the whole mass of it. If large quantities
of meteoric stones were constantly falling into the sun, this
fact would adequately explain whence the sun derives its fuel,
and how its heat is kept up. The researches of astronomers
during the past year or two tend, however, to show that it is
very doubtful whether there is such a large supply of meteor¬
ites, and the chances are considered to be rather in favour of
the hypothesis that the sun is a hot body, now cooling. If
solar systems, like men, nations, seas, and continents, endure
for a time, and are no more seen, it is supposed that the
planets are very slowly drawing nearer to the sun; that in
the course of millions of millions of years they will one by
one fall into it, increasing its light and heat very greatly for a
time; and after the last one has thus met its fate, the sun
must cool down, and roll, a blackened ball, through space,
until, perchance, it serves as food for some other sun. These
hypotheses are no idle dreams. They are supported by a vast
mass of known facts and of mathematical evidence, and have
been most seriously considered in the books of Sir William
Thomson, Dr. Balfour Stewart, Professor Tyndall, Mr. Norman
Lockyer, and most of our leading physicists and astronomers,
who say in effect in reasoning upon one or other of these
matters—“ We do not know whether the fact is so, but such
is the state of the case so far as we know at present.” These
are noble subjects, worthy the closest attention of the mind of
man. In the opening of Goethe’s “ Faust,” which in the
original German is one of the most sublime strains that ever
fell from the lips or pen of mortal man, the very angels in
heaven are pictured as viewing with awe the earth in majesty
wheeling round the sun:—
“ Earth’s pomp and beauty circle on,
Through light and darkness swiftly sped,
A glory as of Eden’s ground
Wheels into darkness deep and dread;
The sea is foaming wild and high
Around the rock's eternal base, ' -
And rock and sea for ever fly,
Revolving in the starry race.”
Mr. Thomas Blyton recently resigned office as Assistant
Secretary to the National Association of Spiritualists, because
he could not give sufficient time to the work. In fact, we
regret to say that his incessant work for Spiritualism in his
spare hours, coupled with arduous professional labours at
other times, have been too much for his health, and at present
he is laid up ill. It would be a good thing for the movement
if Spiritualists could engage the whole of his time, but the
public company by which he is engaged knows his value as a
worker, so has just advanced him, and, moreover, placed
greater facilities for future promotion within his reach. Mr.
Blyton is now in Weymouth.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
114
Sept. 4, 1874.
expressed to me his regret that so much vague and
utterly erroneous information about comets should have
recently been uttered through the lips of a trance
medium at York, and afterwards published. Such
errors are calculated to prejudice educated readers, of
whom there are many in a place like York, but serve to
prove that there is much connected with trance medium-
ship which is not yet understood.
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT BELFAST.
(From our own Correspondent.)
Belfast, Friday.
Pbofessob, Tyndall’s opening address has evidently
given general satisfaction to Spiritualists, for I have
received many letters about it, expressing pleasure at
the great influence it has had in promoting free-thought
on religious subjects, independently of priestly or
creedal influence. Mr. Cromwell Yarley wrote to me
for several copies of it to send to friends on the Con¬
tinent. Professor Tyndall’s attack upon Spiritualism
in it is felt to be a minor matter. Spiritualism being
founded upon the facts of nature, is as insensible to
abuse as is the rotation of the earth, and Professor
Tyndall has merely committed himself in the eyes of
posterity by abusing the only subject which can throw
light upon the problems mooted in his address, and in
relation to which his mind is necessarily in such a state
of unrest.
Nearly all the ministers in Belfast preached against
Professor Tyndall’s address last Sunday. Mr. James
Wason, president of the Liverpool Psychological
Society, and one of the vice-presidents of the National
Association, called on me last Sunday evening to go
with him to hear a preacher who, he was informed,
intended to fly at the presidential address “ as a turkey-
cock flies at a red rag.” On our way there, Mr. "Wason
suggested going to hear the Rev. Professor Jellett in¬
stead, but to this I demurred, arguing that I had had
enough of sensible orations all through the week, and
that as he had brought me out to hear a furious sermon,
I was in the position of the irate deacon, who said to his
new and merciful pastor, who would not advocate eternal
torments—“ Sir, I pray you to give me plenty of hell
fire, as I have a right to have it.” But after all we
were disappointed. The wrong man preached, in the
shape of the Rev. William Park, who said a great deal
about “ the pride of science,” and the worship of “ the
Unknown God.” He censured British Association
utterances, and said a little about “ that future about
which all of us are so anxious to know,” little dream¬
ing that plenty of direct information about it awaits
thoughtful inquirers, who are governed neither by
orthodox scientific utterances, nor by orthodox pulpit
teachings. If the preachers would take up Spiritualism,
they could beat physical science with its own weapons,
namely—facts.
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Shepherd of Liverpool, also
Mr. and Mrs. Guppy, with their friend Mr. Yolckman,
have been here during a large portion of the British
Association meeting.
Mr. Wason will spend some days yet in the north
of Ireland, and I parted with him this morning on his
way to the Giant’s Causeway.
Mr. Yarley could not come to the British Association
meeting, because he had arranged to take a party of
literary and scientific friends down the Thames, to wit¬
ness some new experiments with apparatus to quickly
join up broken screw shafts, in such a way as to render
them serviceable. Mr. Crookes was on board among
the witnesses to the experiments.
Yesterday the Mayor of Belfast got up an excursion
by sea, on board one of the mail packets, to the Giant’s
Causeway, and the arrangements were all of the most
superior description. Among the leading philosophers
on board was Dr. Huggins, who witnessed Mr. Crookes’
earlier Spiritualistic experiments, and who has made - * Where is llr. Rymer now T He left England for Australia yearn ago.
• t js a. x, i n , tt The e&fiy ieancet In England wniCli took place at his house are often re-
great discoveries relating to tiie nature ox comets* lie* f erred to by the pioneers of the Spiritual mo Yemen t in this country .wEd
SPIRITUALISM IN NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
(From our own Correspondent.)
Newcastle, Tuesday Morning.
At the recent National Conference of Spiritualists,
Mr. J. J. Morse spoke favourably of the energy dis¬
played by Spiritualists here, and a number of remark¬
able seances which have taken place in this town have
attracted a considerable share of public attention, so I
have been for some days collecting information about
Spiritualism in Newcastle.
HISTOKY OF THE- RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
NEWCASTLE.
Towards the end of 1863, rumours about certain
extraordinary spiritual phenomena, which were then
creating considerable excitement in the United States
of America, reached Newcastle, the result being that
the common table-tilting and table-rapping manifesta¬
tions were sought for and obtained at several private
family circles in the town. The first public notice
relating to such facts appeared in the Newcastle Chro¬
nicle in January, 1864, in the shape of two letters from
Mr. T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., on Supposed Communication
with the Inhabitants of the Spiritual World, the result
being that experiments for the purpose of evolving the
phenomena were increasingly tried throughout the dis¬
trict. The North of England Advertiser and other
journals entered into the discussion, the majority of the
writers, as might be expected, being disbelievers.
Shortly afterwards information reached Newcastle
about the wonderful manifestations which took place at
the house of Mr. Rymer, a solicitor residing at Ealing ;ft
the medium was Mr. D. D. Home. These occurrences
were witnessed by Mr. Edward Loraine, who still re¬
sides in the Newcastle district; he was a guest for
some weeks at the house of Mr. Rymer, and took notes
of the facts he observed; the manuscript is still in his
possession. A condensed account of what he saw was
published in the North of England Advertiser, and gave
rise to a considerable amount of controversy. From
that time until about twelve years ago, the phenomena
were quietly investigated here and there, but none of
the observed facts were publicly recorded.
In 1862 Mr. Barkas went to London, and carefully
observed the manifestations then taking place through
the mediumship of Mrs. Mary Marshall the younger,
and her aunt. On returning to Newcastle, Mr. Barkas
narrated what he had seen in the pages of the North
of England Advertiser, and kept up a controversy on
Spiritualism in that journal for twenty weeks. Towards
the end of 1862 Mr. Barkas delivered a course of six
lectures on Spiritualism, in the Lecture Room, Nelson-
street, Newcastle-on-Tyne, each lecture being followed
by a public discussion. The lectures were largely
attended, and awakened much general interest and
enthusiasm. Shortly afterwards Mr. Barkas published
Sept. 4, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
115
a little book, entitled Ten Years1 Investigation into the
Phenomena of Modern Spiritualism.
A CUBIOTTS OCCUBEENCE AT A SEANCE.
As this book is an interesting one, written by a clear¬
headed observer, I make two quotations from it, in
which Mr. Barkas narrates some of the more remarkable
facts he observed. Towards the close of his description
of one of Mrs. Mary Marshall’s seances he says :—
Mr. Coleman and I arose to depart. When we were about
to leave the room, and were at a considerable distance from
the moving table, he said, “ I’ll make a suggestion to the
spirits to put one of these candles out.” There were two
candles burning on the large table. I said, “ Do so, but do
not express yourself so that any one in the room can know
what you want done.” This was agreed. Mr. Coleman and I
then went to the party round the table, and he said, “ Spirits,
will you please to do what I have suggested to this gentleman
I would ask you to do ? ” Three affirmative raps immediately
followed. Mr. Coleman said, “ Do it, then.” The table imme¬
diately began to dance across the room ; the people touching it
appeared surprised at its actions, and it gradually came
nearer the larger table. When it reached the table, I, unsuc¬
cessfully, endeavoured to anticipate the means by which the
candle would be put out. After the table had moved uneasily
for about half a minute, it rose into the air, glided over the
edge of the table, where the candle was burning, and coming
suddenly down on the wick of the candle, knocked the wick
into the grease, and then gently glided down to the floor.
Thus ended the second seance, and I walked to my lodgings
with abundant food for reflection.
THE POWEB OP A MESMEEIST OVEB A MEDIUM.
All careful students of Spiritual phenomena have
seen that there is so much thought-reading, and so
many effects are produced by the action of one mind over
another at seances that it is not safe to ascribe to the
spirits of the departed, many revelations which are
given. In articles in back numbers of the Spiritualist
this has often been pointed out aided by striking illus¬
trations. Still, a large residuum remains which I
cannot explain save by the spiritual hypothesis. The
following most valuable incident recorded in Mr.
Barkas’ book, shows how a spirit in the body controlled
a medium, while that medium was awake, in his
normal condition, and not conscious that his acts were
willed by another instead of by himself. Facts like
these may be used by Spiritualists as illustrations of the
theory of guardian angels, and the way in. which they
inflence the thoughts of all men; they may also be used
against Spiritualism, in favour of the hypothesis that
the concentrated thoughts of all the members of a spirit
circle so act upon the mesmeric sensitive, known as the
medium, as to produce certain phenomenal results in¬
dependently of his own knowledge or volition. Here is
the narrative, and it is a pity that full names and
addresses are not given:—
I now quote a few eases of absolute mental and physical
control and sympathy, when the patient was quite awake, and
out of sight of the operator. We shall And that “ There are
more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in your
philosophy.”
The operator I shall designate Mr. B., the patient Mr. B.
Some years ago, Messrs. B., B., and myself met in a Tempe¬
rance Hotel, in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, the subject of conversa¬
tion being mesmerism. Mr. B. professed to be able to control
Mr. B., when in his waking condition, without either speaking,
seeing, or making signs to him of any kind. In order to test
this statement, I took Mr. B. to a distant part of the house,
and, returning to the room where Mr. B. sat, I shut the door,
and sat near the fire-place, with the mantel-piece on my right,
and Mr. B. on my left. I took a small pipe, which was lying
on the table, and hiding it behind some chimney-piece orna¬
ments, I said to Mr. B., “ In order to test your powers over
Mr. B., will you please to rest your hands on your knees, and
look to the floor near your feet. When I touch you, will Mr.
B. .to enter the room, walk across to where I sit, take down
the pipe from behind the ornaments, look at it, lay it on the
table, and then walk out, without speaking a word.” At the
end of three minutes I touched Mr. B.; he immediately willed
Mr. B. to enter. Mr. B. almost instantly entered the room,
and did precisely what I requested Mr. E. to will him to do.
I said to Mr. B., “ Why have you done this? ” He replied,
“ I don’t know: I just felt that I had to do it.”
On another occasion, I took Messrs. B. and B. to the resi¬
dence of a friend, who still resides in Newcastle, the object
being to test the powers of Mr. B. over Mr. B. The following
experiment was tried at my suggestion. I obtained a large
blanket, and got two gentlemen to hold it at arm’s length
across the room. On the window side of the blanket Mr. B.
was placed, and on the dark side Mr. B. I then went with
two gentlemen to a distant part of the room, and on a long
slip of paper we each wrote three or four instructions to the
operator—such, for example, as “ Place your thumb upon your
nose, and extend your fingers.” “ Lift your right leg, and
scratch your left knee.” This paper one of the gentlemen took
to Mr. B. and said, “ Will you please to do what you are
instructed to do by this paper, and let each act be done with¬
out speaking or noise of any kind ? ” Mr. B. on one side of the
blanket did all that he was instructed by the paper to do, and
Mr. B. on the other side of the blanket repeated every act
exactly in the manner they were performed by Mr. B.
OEGANISATION OE SPIBITUALISTS IN NEWCASTLE.
To return to the thread of my narrative. Alter the
publication of the book by Mr. Barkas, the investiga¬
tion of Spiritualism continued quiet for some time, but
about two years ago a local association was formed,
under the title of “ The Newcastle-on-Tyne Society for
the Investigation of Modern Spiritualism.” This society
has taken the old Freemasons’ Hall in Weirs-court,
Newgate-street, and holds meetings twice a week. At
first the members of the society were few in number
and had had little experience, but after steadily pur¬
suing their inquiries, knowledge was gradually acquired,
and several good mediums were developed.
NEWCASTLE MEDIUMS.
As yet I have only seen one of the leading mediums
here, two of the others being away on a short visit to
Bishop Auckland. Among the chief media are Miss
Wood, Miss Fairlamb, and Mr. Rankin; these all
possess moderate power as physical mediums at dark
seances, but do not yet get the direct spirit voice with
strength. The two ladies have recently given a series
of materialisation seances at the house of Mr. Mould,
corn-merchant, of Newcastle-on-Tyne; these seances
were fully described by Mr. Barkas in The Newcastle
Chronicle, and gave rise to most of the great contention
which has recently attracted so much public attention.
A man turned a light suddenly upon them at a dark
seance when one of them was entranced, and, of course,
the sudden shock while in that sensitive somnambulic
state made her very ill; the perpetrator of this dis¬
graceful act then summoned Mr. E. J. Blake and
another local Spiritualist who detained him, for an
assault, but the magistrates dismissed the case. One
non-Spiritualist said that one of the mediums was out
of her chair when the light was flashed, which state¬
ment was flatly contradicted by other witnesses.
The general action of Newcastle Spiritualists has
displayed great inexperience as to the nature of the
phenomena, and the best way to protect mediums as
well as themselves; they would have saved themselves
much trouble and expense had they taken warning by
the recorded experience of London materialisation
mediums who have passed through severe ordeals. In
the first place, incipient materialisation phenomena,
when genuine, are surrounded by suspicious appear¬
ances, calculated to repel rather than to convert un¬
friendly observers, so that forcing them prematurely on
116
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 4, 1874.
the attention of the public, does more harm than good
as far as proselytising is concerned; it also subjects the
mediums to annoyance, and checks or stops for months
the development of manifestations of considerable
scientific interest. Disbelievers should be told to form
circles in their own houses ; if they decline to do this,
they should be informed that if they take so little
interest in where they are going to after their bodies
are laid in the grave, they have no right to expect
others to be more concerned about their future than
themselves. People whose mental nature needs Spirit¬
ualism cannot be kept out of the movement; those
who are antagonistic to it, cannot be dragged forcibly
into it; they had better be ’left to their own de¬
vices, and not allowed to worry sensitive mediums.
Newcastle Spiritualists have begun to buy experience
in these matters, and to lock troublesome people out of
their seances.
They have nevertheless been unwise enough to con¬
sent to the appointment of an “ Investigating Com¬
mittee ” of nine gentlemen and two ladies, to sit in
judgment upon two of their unhappy mediums; only
three of the eleven observers are Spiritualists. The
first law of good spiritual communion is that all the
members of the circle and the mediums shall be bound
together by the affections, that they shall be thoroughly
comfortable and happy, and meet together with the
love of God and His angels breathing in their every
word and thought. We believe that these conditions
are not complied with by the Newcastle “investi¬
gators;” that they are trying to reduce Spiritualism
to mechanics; that they tie and search the mediums,
and put them in a cabinet, then sit patiently waiting
for the denizens of another world to submit to their
judgment. This power comes to the world to rule and
not to obey. A spiritual circle would get the physical
tests the Newcastle inquirers are seeking, with little
Or no delay, but the present circle may either fail
in its efforts, or bring the veriest demons from the
lower regions about the mediums, for only such spirits
can enter inharmonious circles in which love, religion,
and prayerful aspirations are absent. These low spirits
can produce very powerful manifestations; in haunted
houses they can make disturbances without the
intervention of any medium at all, they being still
so closely allied to material conditions, but some
great crime has nearly invariably been committed
in a house before it is haunted—the spirit of the
murderer clings to the scene of his misdeeds. It
is a notorious fact, well known to experienced Spirit¬
ualists, that some of the powerful American physical
test mediums who once visited this country, and who
could get test manifestations in the face of antagonistic
mental influences, were often surrounded by spirits of
the very lowest order. As all these points have been
fully argued out long ago in the Spiritualist, I
need say no more about them now. There is
nothing of a personal nature in these remarks, for
unless Mr. Barkas is a member of the investigating
committee, I do not know even the name of any person
connected with it, and have not yet seen the mediums.
There was some talk of arranging for me to be present
at the investigating seance last Monday; but as enough
had been told me in gossip of how these seances were
managed, I knew it would be waste of time, or that the
mediums would suffer if successful results were ob¬
tained under the conditions, so I said so, and at once
elected to be absent.
The position of Mr. Barkas, in consequence of his
nobly bearing testimony to that which he knows to be
true, is not exactly a bed of roses, so far as popular
abuse is concerned. He is lampooned in some of the
newspapers, is sometimes caricatured at the theatre in
burlesques and pantomimes; and only last Saturday
there were some doggerel verses in a local print, given
as “ An Inspirational Poem by Mrs. Eappin, to be sung
to the tune of The King of the Cannibal Islands” This
effusion begins:—
Come, Dinah dear, and sit thee down,
To hear the news I have from town;
The spirits have from Heaven come down
To talk to Thomas Barkas!
Hokee, pokee, winkee wum,
Thick and fast the spirits come,
Hark! how they play the fiddle and drum
In praise of Thomas Barkas!
The above are the only lines in the effusion worth
quoting, and I have had to improve the metre a bit to
make them at all passable. Mr. Barkas is philosophi¬
cally indifferent to newspaper abuse, which he estimates
at its true value.
I hope to give next week some of the results of my
personal observation of manifestations through New¬
castle mediums.
THE INFLUENCE OF THE MIND OF THE MEDIUM
, UPON SPIRIT MESSAGES.
The following communication has been sent to us by
the gentleman through whose mediumship the “ Spirit
Teachings,” occasionally published in this journal, are
given:—
The question of the influence of the mind of the
medium on the communications which are given through
his organism, raised by " Am Inquirer after Truth,” is
one that is of some importance. Several stray notes on
the subject have appeared from time to time in the
pages of this journal, and the present is a favourable
opportunity for summing up facts so far as we know
them, and removing some misconceptions.
Let it then be frankly admitted that the subject is
beset with difficulty; and that difficulty, one which
enters very largely into the whole subject of inter¬
course between the world of spirits and the world of
matter. So little at present is known of the condi¬
tions under which communication is possible that it is
wise to speak with caution. So much, however, as
this may be affirmed.
There are various kinds and degrees of communica¬
tion which purport to come from spirits. Of these
“ An Inquirer” instances three—“ Glimpses from a
Brighter Land,” “ Spirit Teachings,” and “ Inspirational
Communications,” two of which have been lately
printed in the Spiritualist.
With respect to the first of these, the lady through
whose hand the communications were written would be
the last to claim for them any special authority. They
stand on the -same basis as do the opinions freely ex¬
pressed in familiar conversation among friends on earth.
They are the affectionate utterances of personal friends,
and claim no more respect than such expressions of
opinion would naturally receive. The intelligences
who communicate speak rather from the plane of affec¬
tion than of wisdom, and do not claim to be charged
with any special mission for the promulgation of truth.
Neither do they in any way profess to have extraordi-
THE SPIRITUALIST.
117
Sept. 4, 1874.
nary means of arriving at knowledge. They are simply
friends who, from their present sphere, speak across the
gulf to a friend yet on earth; and they speak only
“ that which they do know, and testify that which they
have seen.”
Inspirational mediumship presents another phase. It
usually occurs only after a long course of preparatory
training during which the mind has become the passive
recipient of spirit influence, and has learned to yield
itself up to the development of any idea which may
spring up within it. Most generally such ideas are the
product of the mind itself, and are fostered and nur¬
tured by spirit guidance. The normal ideas are trained
and developed by spirit influence; and so fresh views
of truth are evolved in proportion as the mind is able
to receive them. The result is rather an evolution
from within than a communication from without. Com¬
munications so developed are valuable according to
their intrinsic merits.
An entirely different kind of communication is that
which has been used in giving the Spirit Teachings.
"Whatever else they may lack they possess the merit so
appreciable by the mass of men, of coming demon¬
strably from an external source. For a period of a
year and a half these communications, some of which
are of too private a nature for publication, have been
written out with unfailing regularity. With a pre¬
cision that is absolutely automatic, each communicating
spirit preserves its style of communication, and even of
writing. This never varies: and the covering of the
hand with a handkerchief, or the occupation of the
mind by reading, produces no change. The communi¬
cation is written out to the end under any circum¬
stances. Here, then, is prima facie evidence of external
agency. This evidence is supplemented by the character
of the communications themselves. They are, in very
many cases, the very opposite of the opinions which I
should express. Those who have followed them will
know that they take the form of an argument in which
I combat the conclusions which my hand has written,
but which assuredly my brain did not originate, nor
my judgment, at the time, approve.
These facts will probably be held to establish a
strong claim to the absolute external intervention of
an unseen agency. That agency invariably authenti¬
cates itself by a full statement of facts, names, dates,
and particulars of its life on earth. Without a lonely
exception those facts have been found to be true; and
in all cases they have been unknown to me previously.
Hence my argument is advanced a step. This unseen
intelligence, communicating ab extra facts unknown to
me, is, as far as I can test it, truthful and accurate.
One more step. It is not only this, but it teaches me
doctrine which is elevated and pure, which breathes a
noble and high morality, and is as far as possible
removed from bigotry, narrowness and sectarianism. If
I had none other than internal evidence I should be
fain to believe that such words have their origin in
calmer and holier spheres than this.
The claim invariably made by this intelligence is that
God is now teaching man as He did of old—in propor¬
tion as he can bear it: and that His messengers, now
as then, are the ministering spirits who delight to do
His Will. In the spirit land there are divers agencies,
each with its capacity and its work: and men, I am
told, will learn in time not to expect that Spiritualism
is to reveal to them eternal truth without any labour
on their part. They will learn too, it is to be hoped,
to be discriminating as to the sources from which they
look for information. And when they have learned all
they can learn here, they will find that reason is the
standard; that they must judge all and everything by
that Divinely implanted rule, and by none else. On
each man rests the ultimate responsibility of accepting
or rejecting what is revealed to him, whether that
revelation comes by automatic writing as evidence of
external agency; by the voice of the spirit to his soul,
scarcely discernible from its own questionings; or by
the familiar converse of departed friends who speak
only what they may have seen during a short residence
in the summer-land.
If a spirit claims unquestioning obedience on
irrational grounds, reject that spirit, be it Pope or
Pretender from beyond the grave. It is not of God,
assuredly. But, when the words spoken are words
commendable to right reason, imbued with elevated and
holy sentiments, and calculated to benefit those who
can receive them: then we may be thankful that they
are so conveyed as to give us a further assurance that
they do not originate on earth, but come as a testimony
of life beyond the grave.
LONGFELLOW ON “SPIRITUAL VISITORS."
“All houses wherein men have lived and died
Are haunted houses; through the open doors
The harmless phantoms on their errands glide,
With feet that make no sound upon the floor.
We meet them at the doorway, on the stair,
Along the passages they come and go,
Impalpable impressions on the air,
A sense of something moving to and fro.
There are more guests at table than the hosts
Invited; the illuminated hall
Is thronged with quiet, inoffensive ghosts,
As silent as the pictures on the wall.
The stranger at my fireside cannot see
The forms I see, nor hear the sounds I hear;
He but perceives what is, while unto me
All that has been is visible and clear.
We have no title-deeds to house or lands;
Owners and occupants of earlier dates,
From graves forgotten, stretch their dusty hands,
And hold in mortmain still their old estates.
The spirit-world, around this world of sense,
Floats like an atmosphere, and everywhere
Wafts through these earthly mists and vapours dense
A vital breath of more ethereal air.
Our little lives are kept in equipoise
By opposite attractions and desires;
The struggle of the instinct that enjoys,
And the more noble instinct that aspires.
These perturbations, this perpetual jar
Of earthly wants and aspirations high,
Come from the influence of an unseen star,
An undiscovered planet in our sky.
And as the moon from some dark gate of cloud
Throws over the sea a floating bridge of light,
Across whose trembling planks-our fancies crowd
Into the realms of mystery and night,—
So from the world of spirits there descends
A bridge of light, connecting it with this,
O’er whose unsteady floor, that sways and bends,
Wander our thoughts above the dark abyss.”
English Spiritualists will regret to hear that Prince
Wittgenstein, who has done so much in publicly certifying the
truth of Spiritualism, is so unwell as to be confined to his bed.
Mr. George Farmer, of 4, Kingsgate-street, High
Holborn, London, W.C., is the only dealer in spiritual litera¬
ture in London who will supply all the spiritual periodicals
weekly, in one parcel, to country newsvendors and local socie¬
ties. The latter, by sending their orders to him, can thus
avoid the unnecessary expense they have borne so long, of
paying carriage for separate weekly parcels, and can help to
remove restrictions on the dissemination of spiritual literature
which have been imposed for a long time by private trade
interests.
118
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sept. 4, 1874.
armesponnence,
\_GrMt freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journcil and its readers.]
PEOFESSOE TYNDALL’S ADDEESS TO THE BEITISH ASSOCIATION.
Sib,—Professor Tyndall, in his recent address, reduces us to
atoms. May one be allowed, on behalf of poor humanity, to
suggest the possibility of these atoms being spiritual in their
nature and origin—emanations from a Supreme Intelligence,
directed by a Supreme Will ? Does not this hypothesis grant
all that science needs ? Professor Tyndall’s method is un¬
doubtedly scientific, and he is led by it as far as it will carry
him, viz., to the plausible theory of the evolution of matter
(molecular structure) and mind (thought) out of atoms, which
are the foundations of the universe and its inhabitants.
“ Considered fundamentally, it is by the operation of an
insoluble mystery that life is evolved, species differentiated,
and mind unfolded from their prepotent elements in the
immeasurable past.”
We are thus reduced by the laws of thought to postulate a
cause adequate to the production of effects which manifest, by
wondrous adaptations and developments, the attributes of
mind.
To believe that matter is self-originating surely involves
that “ rank materialism ” which Professor Tyndall appears to
repudiate. If, then, matter—which, it may be allowed, may
contain, potentially, the possibilities of mind—be not self-
originating, and if, as it has been suggested, matter, in its
essential atoms, is the outcome or manifestation of mind, is it
not reasonable to suppose that the scientific investigation of
psychological phenomena—especially in their abnormal de¬
velopments—is calculated to throw more light on the
momentous problems raised in Professor Tyndall’s address,
than is possible by the pursuit of mere physical studies ?
Professor Tyndall casts a sneer at modern Spiritualism, yet
it is difficult to see how, with a due regard to modesty,
asserted facts, attested by such men as Mr. Wallace, Mr.
Crookes, Mr. Cromwell Yarley, Mr. Serjeant Cox, and others,
can be ignored, or attributed to mere “ phantasy.” This, how¬
ever, by the way. It is-doubtful whether a further acquaintance
with the phenomena upon which the Spiritual theory is based
might not lead to the conclusion that—independent of the
puerility and grotesqueness of many of the so-called spiritual
manifestations—there is a basis of truth underlying these
phenomena, the scientific investigation of which might possi¬
bly afford an insight into the sphere of causation unapproach¬
able to the mere physicist, and lead to issues pregnant with
interest to the future of humanity. W. W. Clark.
Dorking, August 25th, 1874.
MATEEIALISED SPIRITS AT BARROW-IN-FURNESS.
Sib,—The following is an account of a seance with Mr. Tom
Eves, medium; and I send by this post a newspaper, the
editor and manager of which was at the meeting. The
seance was held on the 19th instant, at the house of a well-
known gentleman in Barrow, and was attended by more than
twenty ladies and gentlemen, all of whom are endowed with
common-sense, and whose powers of discrimination and
discernment are certainly not below the average of the species,
but inclined the other way.
After the circle was arranged, the gas was turned out. We
had not been sitting many minutes, ere beautiful brilliant
spirit sparks were seen floating from the table upwards, while
the medium’s hands were held by a lady and gentleman on
either side of him, which condition was observed throughout
this part of the seance. We had the usual demonstrations
with the tubes in the dark, after which we were told to rub
some phosphorus upon one of them, so that we could see its
movements; this was done, when some extraordinary gyra¬
tions took place on the part of this particular tube, still in
the dark, but which it was impossible for the medium to do,
held as he was; the sitters in the room also had their hands
held by each other, so that the test was perfect.
After a short interval, we sat for materialisations; the cabinet
was formed in a corner of the room, by large curtains reach¬
ing from the ceiling to the floor. An invitation to inspect the
cabinet was given, and a gentleman pulled the curtains apart
so that all could see inside, but nothing that could assist
the medium was there. In fact, the medium had seen neither
the cabinet nor the room before. He invited a search of his
person, but to see him is a sufficient guarantee. The sitters
were arranged in three rows in front of the curtains; they had
not long to wait ere a large mass of light was seen to come
through the curtain into the room; it was nearly round, and
about the size of a dinner plate, but no feature or human
form could be seen ; this appearance was said to be a young
lady trying to show herself.
George Holt, a spirit, who was a Manchester bricklayer 139
years ago, and who is the medium’s principal guide in these
matters, then tried to show himself to us, but not with such
success as most of us desired; the features were observed by
two or three; most of the sitters saw the outline. I saw the
outline of a small man who appeared about 5 ft. 3 in. in
height; he appeared to ns several times, and once I caught a
glimpse of his beard, which was white. He usually appeared
elevated above the sitters, and his dress, as I saw it, emitted a
lunar-like light. On one occasion he nodded his head thrice;
he wore a peaked cap, the peak being round and inclined
downwards.
Lastly, we had the exhibition of his lamp, with which he
touched most of the sitters. It was some time ere I could
scrutinise it; he then kept it still for half a minute within
three inches of my face, and I looked into it at the sides, in
front, and down the top. I could see a luminosity which was
covered with a piece of coarse white muslin, the threads being
as coarse as crinoline muslin. I also noticed the materialised
thumb holding the lamp, but I could not fairly discern the
fingers beneath. George gave me two rubs on the most
prominent part of my face with his lamp, and my nose felt a
hard substance, but I cannot say whether the substance was
the lamp or the materialised thumb ; for those of the sitters
who were touched as well as myself, declare that the lamp was
soft. I can safely say I felt something hard touch my nose.
It was the generally expressed opinion that the manifesta¬
tions were not fraudulently accomplished, but as to their
spiritual origin some doubted, although I did not hear any one
doubt the integrity of the medium.
The Barrow friends are making arrangements for another
seance with this celebrated medium. I think it a 'great pity,
sir, that a society is not formed here. I am a member of the
Liverpool society, and am trying hard to persuade the Barrow
friends to form one here, and shall not cease trying until we
have a society. Thos. Hickling.
76, Dalton-road, Barrow-in-Furness, Aug. 24th, 1874.
THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION AND NATIONAL ORGANISATION.
Sib,—In your columns of the 21st inst. is an article on the
action of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism in declining affiliation with the British National
Association of Spiritualists.
Will you permit me as a member of the Council of the
Dalston Society to point out some inaccuracies contained in
this article ?
It is stated that our half-yearly report (published in your
journal, page 80) ‘ ‘ certified that * Florence Maples,’ who
appeared through the mediumship of Miss Showers, is a
materialised spirit,” and that this “ official document certifies
the reality of materialised spirits.” I beg to say the report
makes no such statement. It simply recommends for the
society’s perusal the evidence of certain of its members, who
testify to having at private seances witnessed manifestations
of this character—evidence natually more valuable to the
members in forming their opinion than would be the
evidence of strangers. Miss Showers not having sat at the
rooms of the Association for materialisations, the Council
could not of course commit the Society to any opinion
respecting such phenomena—nor do they—and the less so as
several different theories obtain among Spiritualists them¬
selves to account for them, e.g., Mr. B. Coleman’s quondam
“ human double theory.”
I do not wish to imply that every member of the retiring
Council may not be convinced by evidence privately obtained
that the materialisations are the work of spirits, nor that the
majority of the half-yearly meeting had not the right to put
on record any opinion it might entertain as to the origin of
any of the phenomena of Spiritualism, but I merely desire to
point out that the report adopted nem. con. does not commit
the society in the way you represent, and thereby render
inconsistent their declining to affiliate with the new Asso¬
ciation.
While dissenting toto ccelo from the arguments advanced by
my friend Mr. Tapp, in his letter read from the chair, and
which found no echo in the meeting, I believe they were
suggested solely by his zeal on behalf of a worTdng society, by
which the facilitating of inquiry is more sought than the
organisation of Spiritualists.
The reasons which induced the Association to postpone the
Sept. 4, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
119
question of affiliation sine die, were solely those stated by the
ex-president, Mr. Wilks, one of the founders of the society,
and by myself; viz., that the association being one of
Inquirers into Spiritualism and not a Spiritualist Society,
ought not to endanger its usefulness under its present title by
becoming affiliated to the British National Association of
Spiritualists, however much the members individually may
sympathise with the objects of the latter.
The character of the Dalston Association must undergo a
great change before it will be found using the “ eastern
message” so charitably suggested to it, or either treating
discourteously the British National Association or petitioning
for help from whatever large funds it may become possessed of.
Hitherto our members have proved themselves sufficiently
Spiritualist to assist liberally when their work on behalf of
Spiritualism required pecuniary support.
40, Claverton-street, S.W. R. Pomeroy Teedwen.
Sir,—Your strictures on the Dalston Association in your
last issue are not based upon facts, for if you refer to the report
of the meeting published by you on the 14th inst., you will
find that Mr. Wilks’s amendment was, “ That the subject be
deferred sine die; ” the meeting, therefore, had not the oppor¬
tunity of expressing an opinion upon Mr. Tredwen’s objections
to the .proposed affiliation. In reference to Miss Showers’
mediumship the Council, in its report, merely states the expe¬
riences of some of the members, consequently, as such, not
binding upon the Council or the Association. I shall be glad
if you will notify these corrections in your next issue, to pre¬
vent the intention of the Council and Members of the Dalston
Association being misunderstood. George Blyton.
[These two letters imply that the last report of the Dalston Association
Council, did not, like most of its predecessors, commit the Association to
the spirit theory. We append some quotations from the last report, and
put the words now the source of contention, in italics; it will be noticed
that the word “spirit" is never given between inverted commas as a quo¬
tation, but is the word used officially by the Council itselfThey (the
Council) hope that the share taken by the Association in disseminating a
knowledge of Spiritualism—with its attendant phenomena, and with this
knowledge a higher sense of the whole duty of man—may not have been
in vain. . . . During the past term, among which your Council would
specially mention those at which Miss M. Bosina Showers attended in the
months of January and February last, the phase of mediumship observed
on. The medium remained in her normal condition during the production
of the voices in question, while the number and distinct individuality of
each of the voices were most marked, and were the means of exciting a
very considerable amount of attention. With reference to the materialisa¬
tions characterising her mediumship, your Council note that several mem¬
bers of the Association have had frequent opportunities of observing and
forming their opinion upon this phase of Spiritualism, and would recom¬
mend for your perusal the printed evidence of certain members, who testify
to having seen the spirit Florence Maples and the medium, Miss Showers, at
one and the same time. . . . Many direct spirit writings, obtained through
the mediumship of Mrs. Everitt, were examined by those present. ... A
number of very interesting specimens of spirit photography has been given
to the Association by Mr. F. M. Parkes.”—Ed.]
STATIOBAL ORGANISATION AND LOCAL SOCIETIES.
Sir,—In your remarks on my letter on this subject in your
last issue, you state that my difficulties arise through my
“ not separating the realities of the case from mere words,”
and you rather plainly class me amongst those who have “not
arrived at the stage of education which would enable them to
distinguish the difference between words and realities.” I am
quite willing to waive this point. As I intended to state, I am
quite of opinion that a close and friendly alliance should exist
between all local societies and the National Association. I
expressed my objection, however, to the kind of connection
solicited, as shadowed forth by the word “ affiliation.” As an
individual Spiritualist I should not hesitate to speak in favour
of affiliation, putting aside my objection to the phrase, seeing
that the thing meant was good; but as a member, and espe¬
cially as an officer of a local association, I could not do so
whilst such an objectionable expression is used. With your
permission I will show how it is that I am, in the latter capa¬
city, thus constrained in my action.
You admit that the word “ affiliation ” is a bad one. I know
as a fact that it would be injurious to a local association did the
society “ affiliate ” itself to the National Association. So many
members would fail to see (or refuse to admit) that the thing
meant was good, that dissensions would at once arise, result¬
ing, perhaps, in the break up of the society. Also, and I
again speak from experience, Spiritualists not now members
of a local association, would refuse to join such did it enter
into a connection which (to them) would imply the surrender
—the declaration to the contrary notwithstanding—of its in¬
dependence as a separate society working within a definite
area for certain specified purposes; and the individuality of
the local society being thus absorbed by the National Associa¬
tion, so also, they would say, all credit would be given to, and
perhaps arrogated by the latter, one of whose objects is to
“ promote the establishment and affiliation of such (local)
societies.” The above difficulties, I submit, are among the
“ realities of the case,” although they arise from the con¬
struction put on “the mere words.” I regret that such
opinions should be entertained, but as they do exist,* I hold
that the term employed towards local associations should be
altered before officers of these societies can see their way clear
to recommend the desired alliance. In face of the above diffi¬
culties I was prepared to speak against affiliation at the annual
meeting of the • St. John’s Association in May last; but had
there then been any discussion I should have felt it incumbent
on me to communicate my ideas to the Secretary of the
National Association. As it was, I hoped to have had the
pleasure of participating in the recent Conference, and of then
expressing my views on the subject; but, unfortunately, I had
to leave town suddenly, just before the Conference met.
I desire to point out that there is nothing whatever in the
rules of the National Assqciation to define the connection
which it is proposed shquld exist between it and local associa¬
tions, nor is anything said as to the advantages or benefits
the latter, as local workers, would derive from the solicited
alliance, f There are four long rules devoted to the privi¬
leges, responsibilities, &c., of members; surely it would be
well to have a separate rule defining clearly the nature of the
alliance sought, and pointing out the support, moral and
otherwise, to be derived from such a union.
There are many persons who have either no ideas at all,
or very erroneous ones, as to what the National Association
really is, and the objects for which formed. I should like to see
the Council draw up a circular, addressed to members of local
societies, and have a large number of the same distributed,
in order that better information- may be given, or wrong
impressions removed. It would also be of much use if they
began the proposed work of promoting the formation of local
associations, by drawing up a plan or basis of action for the
guidance of the same, defining the objects they should have in
view, with suggestions of the best modes for their realisation.
Advice could be given for dealing with certain contingencies,
and as to the best means of influencing various classes of
minds; also recommendations to pursue a more scientific
investigation of the phenomena than is frequently followed,
and to more carefully register attained results, and under what
conditions, or the probable causes of failure, and so on.J
I forbear to say more on these matters, as I fear I have
already occupied more space than you will be willing to
allot me. R. Pearce.
Wood-green, August 31, 1874.
Sir,—I am vexed to see the squabbling of the small local
societies; they ought to be proud and happy to join the
National Association, if by so doing they can in any way
promote the general good. I thought one or two of my friends
had better sense than to miss the spirit and quarrel with the
letter. E.
* If people invent, believe, or circulate things which are not true about
the National Association, the latter cannot help it. Much that was not
true was invented and circulated about the honourable Spiritualists who
gave their timeland energies to carrying through Mrs. Tappan’s meetings in
London so successfully, and much that is not true has been invented about
the National Association, but truthful Spiritualists have nothing to do with
these things; local societies, in like manner, have only to deal with the
facts of the case, which it is the duty of their officers to inquire into and
lay before them accurately.—Ed.
t Invited, not “solicited." The tone of this remark implies that the
persons who have worked so hard to promote national union and good¬
will, are the “ natural enemies ” of local societies, with whom a hard
bargain should be driven, or something got out of them if possible, or as
if they had some personal selfish interest in asking all the local associa¬
tions in the kingdom to declare themselves in friendly alliance with each
other. If the National Association asks no control over, and nothing at
all from, a local society, but gives that society some little control over
itself, why raise the question, “ What can we get out of the National
Association in return for doing it the great favour of accepting its free
gift?" Or, “If we honour ourselves by deciding in favour of national
friendly united action, instead of national dissension, what can we get out
of the hard-woVking members of the Council of the National Association,
if we confer a favour on them by thus doing our duty ? ” In reality, the
true question at issue is one of mere frienddness, and is summed up in
the words—“ Can Spiritualists work together as a united body, or can
they not ? ” This problem is now iu course of solution, and wa hope it
will be such as to redound to the honour of the movement. The public
are the judges and the observers. Local societies are already much
indebted to the National Association for the powerful way in which it
recently influenced public opinion by the Conference, and had those
societies then been officially working with it, the good done would have
been greater.—Ed.
t Local societies should send a representative to propose all these
things. Why are the present members of the Council, who have sacrificed
so much of their time for the good of Spiritualism, to do all this work for
the good of local societies, supposing the latter to remain inactive.—Ed,
120
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Sept. 4, 1874.
PBAYEES FOB THE BEAD.
Sir,—You ask in a foot-note of the Spiritualist, August
21st,'“ Why cannot unhappy spirits pray for themselves?”
and you allude to the fact that spirits frequently request
mediums to pray for them. There are few points that M.
Kardec more strongly urges than the necessity, as well as the
efficacy of prayers here for unhappy spirits. A spirit interro¬
gated on this question answered, according to M. Kardec (as
far as my memory serves, for I have not his book with me),
that unhappy spirits prefer seeking the sympathy of incarnated,
to that of higher spirits, for the reason that they are some¬
what afraid of the latter, because the latter can only speak
to them in the name of God, and that frightens them.
Several years ago when “John King” spoke through the
Marshalls, he was asked in my presence, “ Why do unhappy
spirits ask us for our prayers ? ” The answer was, “ Well, it
gives them relief—they cannot pray themselves—but there is
progress.” Believing myself, that sympathy is the chief
magnet between the two worlds, I believe also, that it is
sympathy which may benefit them; at any rate, whatever
may be our own shortcomings, we are nevertheless not
debarred from offering up prayers to God, as long as we are
tabernacled in the flesh. As regards the efficacy of the
prayers of a man of high principle for the dead, according to the
spirits in M. Kardec’s Heaven and Hell, greater stress is laid
upon that efficacy than one could naturally believe to be
possible. An Olb Spiritualist.
Weymouth.
Next Wednesday, the Marylebone Society will have a
public discussion on National Organisation. See advertise¬
ment.
Trance Lecture by Mr. Morse.—Mr. Morse, the well-
known trance medium and inspirational speaker, has nearly
completed a successful lecturing tour in the north of England.
He intends proceeding to the United States early in October,
and will stay there some little time. He will, however,
spend a few days in London before sailing, and the National
Association of Spiritualists has secured his services for Sun¬
day evening, 13th September, as will be seen in our adver¬
tising columns. He will speak in Cleveland-hall, and as this
will be the last opportunity for some time of hearing a lecture
from him in London, the Council has made arrangements to
reserve a number of seats near the platform to enable those
who make an early application for tickets to obtain a good
position, for, as admission to the main body of the hall will
be free, it is expected that there will be an overflowing
audience.
Dr. W. Hitchman “ On the Spirituality oe Soul.”—
This lecture at Liverpool, in the Psychological Society’s
Booms, on August 2nd, 1874, gave great satisfaction to a large
audience, and contained, inter alia, the following passages on
the Science of Spiritualism, i Spirit is a force which division
can never diminish, either in quantity or intensity. Pheno¬
mena of mind are not, of necessity, connected with cerebral
organisation alone. Each portion of an animal low in the
scale of existence, whose nervous force is transmitted 60 mil¬
limetres in the 0.0020 of a second, as planaria, polypi, and
anfielida—e.g. theNaides and Nereides—may be divided again
and again, and yet each sub-division has clearly evinced a
separate and independent will, together with certain special
desires, &c., thus showing that the mental or psychical prin¬
ciple (whatever may be said of its precise nature) is not only
in a limited sense obviously divisible, but quite as conclu¬
sively, not wholly dependent on the presence of cerebrum,
cerebellum, Or medulla oblongata, for its physiological action
in a world of matter.” . . . “ I assert, from the testimony of
Materialism itself, that the mental principle is not confined
to brain in man or animals, but is present generally through¬
out each body. This statement is philosophical, and the more
wonderful when you reflect upon the influence of physical
agents on organic life; for example, from a chemical compo¬
sition so closely akin to that of substances wholly innocuous,
the abstraction or addition of a single component molecule,
or atomic equivalent, makes the sole difference between an
aliment and a poison.” ...” Spirit forms may, I think, con¬
sist of minute particles, sui generis, and so extremely subtle,
as not to exhibit the properties of matter, yet in a sense
material. Such emanations from certain bodies are really
luminous, travel with amazing velocity, and passing through
organic substances, potentially effect sensation, thought,
vision of soul, by exciting vibrations or undulations in the
electric force of brain and nerves.”
The Pioneer of Progress has been enlarged in size and
improved in appearance; it also now comes out regularly
every Friday, and contains much provincial news relating
to Spiritualism.
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Everitt, of Holder’s-hill,
Hendon, N.W., intend shortly to make a tour in the north of
England. Probably, if invited, Mr. Everitt would lecture to
local societies, on some of his interesting home experiences in
Spiritualism.
Swedenborg-’ s Spiritual Diary.—The Swedenborgian
Society takes steps to disseminate Swedenborg’s works at a
cheap rate, with the exception of the most valuable book of
the whole—namely, his Spiritual Diary, in which his psycho¬
logical experiences were recorded by himself. The society
seems to like the opinions of Swedenborg founded upon the
facts of his mediumship, better than it likes the bare facts
themselves, which ought to be closely studied before the re¬
liability of any teachings flowing from them is endorsed.
The Dalston Association had an order on the Swedenborgian
Society entitling it to a supply of books, so it applied for
Swedenborg’s Diary. The answer was—” The Spiritual Diary
not being the property of the Swedenborgian Society is not
available on account of your order.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Letters too late for this issue have been received from E. Dale
Owen, New York; J. O. Luxmoore, Dartmouth; Epes Sargent,
Boston, U.S.; Luther Colby, Boston, U.S.; B. Honywood, Lac
de 'Como, Italy; H. G. Atkinson, Boulogne; Dr. J. Treat, New
York; and several friends in England. Dr. Treat is informed
that we have more edifying subjects to consider in this journal
than the Beecher-Tilton scandal, even when news is supplied
from head-quarters.
INSCRUTABLE are the laws that govern the incidence of
some of the greatest calamities.—A RAILWAY ACCIDENT is, to
any particular person a (theoretically) remote contingency, but it may
happen, as a matter of fact, the very next journey undertaken. The risk,
in a pecuniary sense, may now be covered FOR LIFE by a single small
payment.—Apply for prospectus of the
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE COMPANY
Limited,
to
THE MANAGER, 42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.C.
OE TO
MR. THOMAS BLYTON, AGENT, 12, HIGH-STREET, BOW,
LONDON, E.
MARYLEBONE SOCIETY OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
HE next monthly social meeting of the society, will
be; held at the above address on Monday evening, September 7th, at
half-past seven, when it is hoped every member will be present. Friends
also desirous of joining the Association, are cordially invited to attend.
Admission Free.
Discussions will also be held here on the following subjects, viz.:—
Wednesday, Sept. 9th.—Will the establishment of a National Association
of Spiritualists be beneficial to the cause and progress of Spiritualism?
Wednesday, Sept. 16th.—Are the phenomena of modern Spiritualism simi¬
lar to those related in the Old and New Testaments?
Wednesday, Sept. 23rd.—Are the teachings of modem Spiritualism in har¬
mony with those of the New Testament ?
Wednesday, SOfA—Is modern Spiritualism calculated to benefit humanity,?
To commence at 8 o’clock. Admission 2d.
Non-Spiritualists and Inquirers are especially invited to take part in these
discussions. Chaeles Hunt, Secretary.
SPIRITUALISM
FROM A NEUTRAL STAND-POINT.
A Resume of Evidence—pro and con,
BY H. VENMAN.
Post-free for 13 Stamps.
Ingle & Co., 20, Pimlico-road, London, S.W.
TO SPIRITUALISTS LIVING NEAR REDHILL.
A married couple wish to enlarge their circle, and would be glad to,
meet with Spiritualists resident in their neighbourhood, of congenial mind,
and desirous of uniting for regular intercourse with friends in the other
life. References expected and given, H. A. A., Post Office, Redhill
Surrey.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyeeman.
Price Threepence. To beh ad of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne
and all Australian Booksellers.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
Sept. 4, 1874.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.'W.'
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Q-erald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21, Green-street. Grosvehor-square, "W
Gully, J. M., M.U., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jeneken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Ross-Church, Mrs. (Florence Marryat), 21, CoMlle-road, Kensingston-
park, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, SW.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finohley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate'.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44, Netherwood-road, West Kensington-
park, W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, LoughbO'Tough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S.,,4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 5, South-street, Finsbury, ifi.C.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphries, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bays water, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3. Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawsor, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O.
Meers, W. D., care of T. Everitt, Holders-bill, Hendon.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Pearce, O. W., F.S.S, 14. Burnley-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road,[OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederika, Hazel Down, Teignmouth.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and S, Altenburg-terface, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-stieet, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein. Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor of the Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne,
Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinn ery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35,'Leipsic.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the OREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND OLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover- square, two doors from Regent-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Tears estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Oampden-hill, Kensington.
MR. W. Gh SCORET, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bushi
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURAT I YE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-
road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica¬
tion by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM,
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av.,JNew York. Terms, Fi
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
answers Sealed
Five Dollars and Four
O BALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
IO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
VISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table dHote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
WANTED, for a Lady Spiritualist, the services of a
YOUTH, under 16, or a very YOUNG GIRL, as Private Secre¬
tary. A good Grammarian indispensable, and one who can also write
French preferred. Address, Hope, care of Mrs. Garraway, 23, Thurloe-
square, S.W.
In handsome Cloth, price 2s. 6d. post free.
Psychopathy or, the true healing art.
By JOSEPH ASHMAN,
Principal of the Psychopathic Institution, 254, Marylebone-ioad, London,
N.W.
. CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—Introduction.
Dissatisfaction with Ordinary Systems of Medicine-r-The Nature of
Disease—One primal Principle of Cure—Weakness and Strength—Man
like an Engine—What is Vital Force?—Health, Breath, the Blood—The
Vital Principle beyond these.
Chapter II.—The Vital Principle.
The Stomach—Man a Plant—The Internal Sun—Man a Microcosm-
Caloric—Arterial Combustion—Temperature of the Body—The Nervous
System a Source of Heat—Nerve Force—Difference between the Gan¬
glionic and the Cerebral and Cerebro-Spinal Nerves — Office of the
Ganglia and the Cerebellum—Nature of the Vis Nervosa—The Soul
Force.
Chapter III.—On the Nature and Cure oe Disease.
The Perfect Magnet—The Healthy Organism—The Source of Vital
Force—How produced—The Vital Force and Nerve-aura may be Com¬
municated—The Influence of the Old on the Young—The Hand a Psychial
Instrument—The Philosophy of Hand-Shaking.
Chapter IV.—Healing.
Two Vital Fluids—Their Signs—The Vital Magnetic Fluid: Mode of
Applying it—The Power of the Hand over the Temperature of the Body—
The Nerves the Medium of Influence—Process without Contact—
Healing at a Distance: Marvellous Cures—The Impartation of the Aura
to Water, &c.—Necessity of Passivity and Benevolence—Concluding
Remarks.
London: J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
Crown 8 vo. 3s. 6d., or with gilt edges 4s.
THE ANGELS.
CONTENTS.
I.—What are Angels ? II.—The Origin of Angels, III.—Seership, IV.—
The Intermediate State. V.—Will the natural body rise ? VI.—What do the
Angels do? (1). For men on earth; (2) For spirits in the world of spirits;
(3) In Heaven.
James Speirs, 36, Bloomsbury-street, London.
IV
THE SPIKITUALIST,
Sept. 4, 1874.
EYIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERYES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
i t has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows
“H.G. Atkinson, Esq.,F.G.S., Gh "WheatleyBennett, Esq.; J. S.Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; Gk Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D. ; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. O. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq,; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.O.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq..;
Robert Quelch, Esq., O.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0.'Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huyley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
■Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls or the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
, “ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’   
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
8. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
' 6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
bo afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies!
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
snirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediuaship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
AN APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS AND FRIENDS.
HE Spiritualists of Sowerby Bridge have, up to the
present time, held their meetings in a cottage at Causeway Head.
This has now been found inadequate, and in order to carry out more pro¬
gressive principles, a new Lyceum has been built to seat about 300 persons in
Hollin’s-iane Sowerby-bridge, along with eight dwellings which are
intended to endow the Lyceum at some future time, when they can be
freed from Mortgage. The Building when complete, will cost above £1,500
of which £1,000 has "been obtained on mortgage at the rate of 6 per cent,
per annum, which leaves a debt of over £400. An Appeal to the friends
of Spiritualism is proposed. It is desired that 300 friends will kindly give
£1 each; the remainder will probably be raised at home. Mrs. Cora L.
Y. Tappan has kindly consented to open the New Hall, and she heads the
list with a donation of £5. Several friends in the out-district have already
promised £1 each. The Bradford friends are arranging for a benefit of
two Orations to be given by Mr. J. J. Morse, of London, some time in the
month of August.
This is earnestly put before the friends of the movement, as it is impossi¬
ble to borrow money on a School, or Lyceum, owing to the actions of the
School Board. And as this is the first building in the kingdom of Great
Britain, belonging solely to Spiritualism, and as the money will shortly be
due to the various contractors, it is hoped that those who can do something
for the cause will do so. The projectors are all working men, and this is
one of the boldest attempts to carry out the true religion or science of
Spiritualism. It is intended to open the new Lyceum on Sunday,
August 2nd, 1874.
To those who are not in a position to give the amount, smaller sums may
be sent, and to those who cannot give money, tracts, books, spiritual
periodicals, and back numbers of the London Spiritual papers will be thank¬
fully received. As a library is connected with the Institution, those who
can help with books will do good in many ways. The friends are thankful
for the support and encouragement that have already been given, and
kindly solicit further favour and support.
Donations for this great object can be forwarded to the Secretary,
Henry Lord, Union street. Beech,
July 14th. Sowerby-bridge, Yorkshire
List already promised.
£ s. d.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan 5 0 0
Twelve other friends £1 each ... ... 12 0 0
A Friend at Oldham ...  1 0 0
A Ditto at Manchester   10 0
H. J. L.     20 0 0
National Association of Spiritualists, London 5 0 0
John Lament, Liverpool  1 1 0
E. Broadbent  1 0 0
J. G 2 0 0
Three Friends     1 12 6
J. Milner   10 0
J. O. and J. S    7 6
Wm. Jackson    2 0 0
E. Holt ... ...    ... 10 0
Benjamin Swaine, 3rd Donation ... ... 1 0 0
A Bath Friend     10 0
Two Spiritualists    ... ... 4 6
Proceeds from Mr. Tappan's Oration ... ‘5 10 0
£61 5 • 6
A parcel of 8 Books and Tracts from James Raistrick, Leeds.
Mr. James Burns has kindly given his services on Sunday, August 9th,
1874, for the benefit of the new Lyceum.
P.S.—The amounts and other gifts will be acknowledged in the London
Spiritualist periodicals^ 
OftO REWARD.—MASKELYNE & COOKE.
} ””” an expose
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (IOTA).
London: E. "W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane.
Price One Penny.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIYE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere & Co., King "William-street, Strand.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holbom, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborp Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Aye Maria-lano London E.O.
