^jj* #I^st x:0ttJtKi^b' toHfj ^pntwalxsm m <&xmi §nfa:m»
THE “SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places -LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-strest. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 208.—(Yol.ix.—No. 3.) LONDON: FBIDAY, AUGUST 18, 1876. Published weekly ; Price Twopence.
(Eontenta
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
Union among American Spiritualists    25
Torres-Splanot on Ancient Spiritualism ...   25
The Clairvoyant Powers of Elisha. By Eugene Crowell, M.D. 25
Coacoochee’s Vision  ...   ...    ... 26
Organisation among Spiritualists in America ^Platform-
Statement of Aims—Declaration of Principles—Consti¬
tution of the Society for the Advancement of Spiri¬
tualism in*        ... 26
What is Belig’on ?    ... 27
The Late Mr. Rymer, of Ealing   ...  27
Spiritual Lectures in Liverpool 28
The Bravo Case    ...28
A Missouri Prodigy...  29
The National Association of SpiritualistsMeeting of the
Council     ... ... ... 20
A Materialisation Seance with Dr. Slade. By William H.
Harrison       80
Messages at a Seance with Dr. Slade. By 0. Carter Blake,
Doct. Sci.    80
Spiritualism in Continental Europe. No. II. By Emily
fiislingbury      JSO
Washington Irving on Communion with Spirits 31
Poetry:—These Two By Caroline A. Burke—A Lyric of
the Gleaming Sickle. By J. T. Markley 32
Correspondence: —Art Magic—Seances in Newcastle—More
about “ S- J. Sabel”—First Steps in Spiritualism—The
Controversy on Beincarnation—The Education of the
Children of Spiritualists—Extraordinary Spiritual Phe¬
nomena in the Light—Open-Air Services in Leicester—
How do Spirits Converse ?—A Seance with Dr. Slade—
Experiences of An Inquirer—Spiritualism and Investi¬
gators    82
Paragraphs:—A Scene at a Grave, 28; “Animal Parasites
and Messmates,” 28; The Life of Mohammed, 29 ; The
Argument of Design, 29; Picnic of the Newcastle
Spiritualists. 81; Novel Inventions, 36; Chinese Ghost
Stories, 86; To Heaven and Backt ....  86
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“ Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. Souvenir,” Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the" benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C.   
East London spiritdal meetings.-
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’fi
Lecture Booms, 15, St. Peter's-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 80, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eyeniog.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.  
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kaedeo. Translated by ANNA
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7. Rue de Lille. Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarle.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of -practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future,-its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. Ring- Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
P "d ■n'o r w t1
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
Barrlster-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mb'. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:—11, Navarino-koad, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts afleeting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by vanous means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on th* first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special stances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may he of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances ot.
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can he ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “British
National Association of Spiritualists ” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following., viz.:
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at tbe Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further informationi can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s, All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any hooks and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire
PRIZE ESSAYS—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—Tbe Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
he obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
strtet, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is.ljd.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal,
appears on the 1st and 15th of every month. Price
2d., or 6 francs yearly. Belgium—37. Rue Florimont, Lifege.
London—The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Reflexionen aus DER GEISTER-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Jorefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London;
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. AMonthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. \d.—Spiritualist Newspaper ).
Branch Office.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.80 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Sp ritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in tha same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea.
a year includes membership, and one boob from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, but not of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should he addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 88. Great Russell-sti eet, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALISTS’ SOCIETY.
LECTURES. AUGUST, 1876.
Mr, J. J. MORSE—*1 The Mission of Spiritualism, its Nature and
Value,” Sunday, Aug. 6th, at 8 p m.
„ „ “ The Workshops of God,” Aug. 6th, at 7 p.m.
„ „ "Life's Four Seasons; their Uses and Les¬
sons," Monday, Aug. 7ih at 7 p.m.
Mr. J. T. Rhodes—“ Green’s Prize Essay, the Probable Effects
of, &c.,” Sunday, Aug. lirtb, at 7 p m.
Mr. W. H.Lambelle—“Mythology,” Sunday, Aug. 20th, at
7 p.m.
Mr. H. A. Kersey—(Subjeet will he announced). Sunday,
Aug. 27th, at 7 p.m.
Admission free. Collection at the close.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at II a m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 hooks and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by tho
gift or loan of hooks, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the popu’ation is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
By Royal Belters Patent.
“ KRINE COSMETIC,’’ THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR,
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The-above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient. .
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of
Printing. Estimate forwarded on application.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Aua. 18, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder.Esq., 1, Hereford-square.West Brompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Bidsbur.v, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin,' 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood'.
Everitt, I’homas, Lilian-vllla, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W. .
Fitz-< Jerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M-, M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-lUil, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 82, Wanvick-square, S.W.
Jeneken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay .Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, E. D , Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D.,Douglas House, IS, Alexandra*
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wasou’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.    
Armflcld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd.,New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel. 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W,
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keulneale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, It., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledlne-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T,, Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivlmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Gosweli-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S.E,
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-pafk, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 8, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withali, Miss M., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
With all, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wpod, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer. .
Martin It. Smith, Esq,, Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J, H, Andrei* Mr. H. Cook. \ Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Klslingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Nieder Waliuf
on the Rhino, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
fhe Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alectandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron vdh Dirckinck-Hohnteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Yeh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Brantlng, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearyehand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 113, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H, Terry, 96,
Ruasell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 85, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M D., «34, Race-street, Philadelphia, XJ.S.A.
B. Choweil, 196, CUnton-ayenue, Brooklyn, New York,
M. F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-srreet, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Phlladelphia.U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plaoe, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaiise St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de i’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels/
Lieut.-Uol. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq.,M.D., Union Springs,Cayuga Co.,New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1 Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O'Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 178, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary,
Dr. A E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damlani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 78, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. fi. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near .Vienna,
M. Cochet, Musee des Beaux Arts, Rue T angier, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—George Browne,
Esq., 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
L’Union Splrite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spirlter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. O. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 84, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
Preshfeaf.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—yii. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—"S/Lv. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr, John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitohman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan,
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876,  :   
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy. Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeiay, Byron,
Bronte, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a traoce state, and are of the meat
intensely interestieg and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL D, etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-bouse-yard, Paternoster-
row,
Just Published, Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM. EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London, :—Simpkin, Marshail & Co,
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATOHARD AND CO.,
Furnishing Undkrtakkrs, Carriage Proprietors, &c.
Chief Office: 47, Crawford Street, Bryanston
Square, W,
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 6 p.JH
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evenlug.
Address as above.
N.B.—Mr. Williams is at present on the Continent.
Ik/TRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE, HEALING,
IVL AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance. or any form of Medlumship French spoken. At
home Mondajs, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Sa'urdays.
Private Seances attended. Address 90, Great Bussell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.O.
Notice.—Physical seances with a first-class medium held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
by introduction, Fee £s. Arrangements may also be made
for private physical seances.
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, v it bin a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemonth-road, Newoastle-on-
Tyne.
MISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomanla, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatment by clair¬
voyant. Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and other phases as
usual. Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, hut Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie' Eglinton,' St. James's House, Waltham¬
stow.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
American SomnambuH it, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose refutation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Hours, 1 till 8 p.m Terms, one guinea.
Miss Fowler does not reply to correspondence, nor see visitors
on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square,
London, W.O.
MRS. BURKE is about to hold PUBLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8 o’clock; to commence on Friday, tne 15th
inst. E. W. Wallis, medium for trance communications. Other
seances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance tor refined physical manifestations, with a first-class
medium, will be held on the Wednesday evenings of each
week, for a few weeks only. Fee 5s.
PROFESSOR JAMES REGAN, Psychopathic
Healer, 27, Hart-street, Bloomsbury-square, London,
W.O.
Attendance given personally from 12 to 4 daily, Saturdays
excepted. No attenoance given on that day. Terms in ac¬
cordance with patient’s means. Patients attended at their
own residences by appointment.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 88, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTION FOR THE
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr, and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
Is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTHLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, Briti-h National
Association of Spiritualists, 88, Great Russell-street, W.O.
W ANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoyant.
Would not object to trance.—T.Y., 16, Stafford-street, Maryle-^
hone-road, W.
Good chambers or furnished
APARTMENTS to LET. Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
mo LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi-
JL detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen &hd plate. 64
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
J[ of j|« I’jjojr^ss of % atth of jljmjtlmtftottt.
VotujviE Kij^e* Number Three.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 18th, 1876.
UNION AMONG AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
From a report published in another column, it will be I
seen that the present attempt of American Spiritualists to j
unite is founded upon a different basis to that which has !
been acted upon in Great Britain ; that is to say, in America j
the bond of union is to be of a religious nature, whilst in !
England the alliance is founded merely upon the acceptance j
of the facts, leaving every man free to form his own ;
opinions. In the United States, those who do not agree j
with the programme laid down by the organisation will be j
forced to remain outside its ranks ; thus, it will be seen that j
in Great Britain organisation has been planned upon a j
broader basis. Nevertheless, any organisation is better than |
none, for without union, strong and effective and continuous j
work cannot be done. The programme drawn up at the |
Philadelphia Convention is rather of an orthodox character, the j
result of which will certainly be discord to some extent. A j
second and unavoidable source of contention, incidental to all j
organisations, will soon be experienced when the division |
begins between those who object to organisation at all and I
those who appreciate orderly united effort. The more emotional
and uneducated Spiritualists will be found to be averse to j
organisation, whilst those of a more critical and intellectual j
nature will quickly appreciate its advantages. All the j
Spiritualistic newspapers in the United States are of course |
in favour of organisation and united friendly action, and not j
one of them has made any attempt to sow dissension. Among j
the active workers in the attempt to establish an organisa- j
tion in America are Mr. Robert Dale Owen, Dr. Eugene j
Crowell, Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, and Mr. J. M. j
Peebles; also Mrs. Tappan, who has seen so much of the |
advantages resulting from united action in England.
TORRES-SOLANOT ON ANCIENT SPIRITUALISM.*
This important and learned work, the author of which was | j j
lately the President of the Spanish Spiritualist Society, j j
deals with many of the highest anthropological and Spiritual i j j
subjects. Much of the work is devoted to the correlation of j j j
the doctrines of the Brahmans with those of the modern j j j
Catholic Church. Thus the Brahmanic legends of Adima j j j
and Heva are associated with those of the Mosaic creation; j j j
the diluvial legend is found in the Vedas ; the stories of j[j
Abraham, Moses, and much of the legend of the history of j,
the Jewish temple are found to bear close analogies to the ! j
records found in Sanskrit writings. Of course, as Mr. Beal | j j
has very well pointed out, the difficulty is to ascertain j j j
whether the Jews copied from the Eastern writings, or
whether the descendants of Nestorians conveyed to Persia j j j
and Thibet somewhat of the traditions of Christianity. j(j
The Thibetan sculptures of Buddha (if we may suppose jj j
them genuine) which Professor Leitner brought from Thibet, j j j
seem to prove the second theory, and we can see little in jjj
the assumed analogies between these religions which might j j j
not be the result of an imperfect remembrance of Chris- jjj
tian writings. j j j
The author’s analysis of various religious systems is sin- j j j
gularly exact and precise; and he looks forward to Spirit- j j i
ualism as the means by which, after the decease of jjj
Christianity, man may be raised to the level of the intellec- j j j
tual Buddhists and Brahmans. He evidently considers jjj
Burnouf to be an authority; but, happily for the sense of j j j
his argument, does not quote Inman. The book is emi- ||j
nently readable, even to those to whom the subject is new. j j j
Since, however, the congresses of Orientalists, which have jjj
taken place nearly everywhere, the subject is a little hack- j j j
* El Catolicismo antes del Cristo. For El Vixconde de Tones^Solanot, Third j \ j
edition. Madrid, . ' ... i(i
neyed, and its immediate connexion with Spiritualism,
though far more important than even the author considers,
is not apparent to all.
THE CLAIRVOYANT POWERS OF ELISHA *
BT EUGENE CBOWELL, M.D.
Many instances are related in the Bible where the faculty
of clairvoyance was exercised, and there is no difficulty in
recognising it as the same spiritual faculty that many now
possess.
Among these instances in the Old Testament, is that
narrated in the 5th chapter of 2 Kings, where Naaman, after
being cleansed of the leprosy through the medium ship of
Elisha, and having departed from the prophet’s habitation,
the servant of the latter, thinking that as Elisha had refused
compensation, he himself would levy tribute, ran after him
and taxed him for a talent of silver. Upon his return,
“ Elisha said unto him, Whence comest thou, Gehazi ?
And he said, Thy servant went no whither. And he said
Went not mine heart with thee when the man turned again from,
his chariot to meet thee ? Is it a time to receive money ?
.... The leprosy therefore of Naaman shall cleave unto
thee, and unto thy seed for ever.”
It is plain here that Elisha perceived the act of the servant
through his spiritual faculty, or clairvoyantly, and this is the
meaning of the words, <(Went not mine heart with thee
when the man turned again from his chariot,” and it would
be difficult to attach any other meaning to them.
In the next chapter, the 6th, when—“ The king of Syria
warred against Israel, and took counsel with his servants,
saying, “ In such and such a place shall be my camp,”
Elisha clairvoyantly, or by spirit impression, was informed
of the intention of the Syrian king, and warned the king of
Israel,
<( Saying, Beware that thou pass not such a place, for
thither the Syrians are come down. Therefore the heart
of the king of Syria was troubled for this thing, and he
called his servants and said unto them, Will ye not shew
me which of us is for the king of Israel ? And one of his
servants said, None, my lord, 0 king, but Elisha the prophet
that is in Israel telleth the king of Israel the words that
thou speakest in thy bed-chamber.”
In the same chapter, we find that a detachment of the
troops of the enemy suddenly appeared before Dothan, they
being sent to capture Elisha.
“ And when the servant of the man of God {Elisha) had
risen early, and gone forth, behold a host compassed the city
both with horses and chariots, and his servant said unto
him, Alas, my master, how shall we do ? And he answered,
Fear not, for they that be with us are more than they that be
with them. And Elisha prayed and said, Lord, I pray thee
open his eyes that he may see. And the Lord opened the
eyes of the young man, and he saw, and behold the
mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about
Elisha”
Elisha being a clairvoyant prophet or medium, perceived
this heavenly host who had come to his assistance. They
probably were the spirits of Israelitish warriors, who, though
disembodied, yet continued to take a deep interest in the
success of their mortal kindred, and who were present to
render every assistance in their power; this power I fully
believe to be often exercised in war, and sometimes with such
effect as to determine the issue of battles. As to the young
man, Elisha probably laid his hand upon him, and as where
persons possessing the gift of second-sight touch others, the
latter often become temporarily clairvoyant, so in his case he
* From CroKyell’s Piimitive Christianity and Modern Spiritual,m, Yol, II.
26
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aua. 18, 1876.
perceived this host of spirits who otherwise would have re¬
mained invisible to him.
In the latter part of the same chapter we have another
instance related of his clairvoyant power. Samaria, where
Elisha then was, being besieged and in great straits, the
king of Israel became enraged against Elisha, for the reason
that he had been directed by Elisha’s advice, and sent an
officer to arrest him.
“ But Elisha sat in his house, and the elders sat with him,
and the king sent a man from before him, but ere the mes¬
senger came to him he said to the elders. See ye how this
son of a murderer hath sent to take away mine head ? ”
Passing to the New Testament, we notice the case of that
pious and noble martyr Stephen, as related in the 7th
chapter of Acts. Surrounded by his bigoted persecutors,
gnashing their teeth in their rage, he
“ Being full of the Holy Ghost looked up steadfastly into
heaven, and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the
right hand of God, and said, Behold I see the heavens
opened, and the Son of Man standing on the right hand of
God.”—Verses 55, 56.
Stephen here had a clairvoyant view of the spirit world,
and of Jesus, and probably of some other glorious and
perhaps ancient spirit, whom Stephen mistook for God, as
Swedenborg and others have since done.
COACOOCHEE’S VISION.
Coacoochee, or Wild Cat, was a friend of Osceola in the
old Seminole war. He appears to have been one of the
aboriginal Spiritualists, for he claimed communication with all
the dead of his tribe, and especially with his twin sister, who
preceded him to the spirit-world. The following is from the
lips of Coacoochee :—
“ She died suddenly. I was on a bear hunt, and seated
by my camp-fire alone. I heard a strange noise. It was
something like a voice which told me to go to her. The
camp was some distance, but I took my rifle and started.
The night was dark and gloomy. The wolves howled around
me as I went from hammock to hammock. Sounds often
came to my ear; I thought she was speaking to me. At
daylight I reached her camp ; she was dead.
te When hunting some time after with my brother Otulkee,
I sat alone by the side of a large oak. In the moss hanging
over me I heard strange sounds. I tried to sleep, but could
not. I felt myself moving, and thought I went far above to
a new country, where all was bright and happy. I saw
clear water, ponds, rivers, and prairies, on which the sun
never sets. All was green; the grass grew high and the
deer stood in the midst of it looking at me. I then saw a
small, white cloud approaching, and when just before me,
out of it came my twin sister, dressed in white and covered
with bright silver ornaments. Her black hair, which I had
often braided, hung down her back. She clasped me
around the neck and said, ‘ Coacoochee, Coacoochee.’ I
shook with fear. I knew her voice, but could not speak.
With one hand she gave me a string of white beads; in the
other she held a cup sparkling with pure water, which she
said came from the spring of the Great Spirit, and if I would
drink from it, I should return and live with her for ever.
“ As I drank she sang the peace song of the Seminoles
and danced around me. She had silver bells on her feet,
which made a loud noise. Taking from her bosom some¬
thing, I know not what, she laid it before me, when a bright
light streamed far above us. She then took me by the hand
and said,‘All is peace.’ I wanted to ask for others, but
she shook her head, moved her hand, stepped into the cloud,
and was gone. The fire she had made had not gone out.
All was silent. I was sorry that I could not have said more
to her. I felt myself sinking until I came to the earth,
where I met my brother Otulkee. He had been seeking me,
and was alarmed at my absence, having found my rifle
where he last saw me asleep. I told him where I had been,
and showed him the beads. These beads were stolen from
me when I was in prison at St. Augustine. At certain
periods of the moon, when I had these beads, I could see
the spirit of my sister. I may be buried in the earth, or sunk
in the water, but I shall go to her and live with her. Game is
abundant there, and there the white man is never seen.”
!j ORGANISATION AMONG SPIRITUALISTS IN AMERICA.
The following is the official report of the proceedings of the National
! Conference of Spiritualists assembled in Philadelphia, July 5th, 1878
Pursuant to a “ Call to Consider the Organisation of Christian
I Spiritualism in America,” published in the Banner of Light, and
Spiritual Scientist, the Conference met July 5th, 1876, in Circle Hall,
Philadelphia.
The meeting was called to order at 10 o’clock a.m. by J. E. Bruce,
| of Massachusetts, who read the “Call,” and moved that Rev. Samuel
| Watson, D.D., of Tennessee, take the chair.
I The organisation of the Conference was completed by the appoint-
| ment of J. E. Bruce, secretary, Dr. H. T. Child, assistant secretary,
I S. P. Ease, treasurer, with the following list of vice-presidents: Penn-
j sylvania, Rev. Cyrus Jeffreys, Mrs. Grace Parkhurst, Dr. Henry T.
| Child. New York, Eugene Crowell, M.D., Rev. J. H. Harter, J. W.
j Seaver. Massachusetts, J. Hamlin Dewey, M.D., E. Gerry Brown,
I Dr. Main. New Hampshire, George S. Morgan, Mary Reed. Ver-
j mont, A. E. Stanley, Mrs. M. S. Townsend. New Jersey, Hon. J. M.
Peebles, A. E. Newton. Ohio, Hudson Tuttle, J. Murray Case, D.
I Winder. Indiana, Robert Dale Owen, H. Haight. Illinois, Cora L.
Y. Tappan, Dr. E. C. Dunn, Dr. J. S. Avery. Missouri, Rev. A. J.
Fishback. Kentucky, Judge L. R. Spurrier, Prof. J. R. Buchanan,
MD. Michigan, Mrs. A. A. Whitney. Delaware, Dr. Marshall.
District Columbia, Dr. John Mayhew, George White. North Carolina,
John MacRae. Alabama, C. Barnes. Louisiana, Dr. J. B. Cooper,
j Tennessee, Gen. Smith, Annie C. T. Hawks. Arkansas, Dr. J. A.
i Meeker, R. H. Righten. Texas, Mrs. S. A. Talbot.
| J. E. Bruce, of Massachusetts, moved the following resolution—
j “ That the time is come for the organisation of Spiritualism in America.”
| After full discussion, the resolution was unanimously adopted.
Hon. J. M. Peebles, of New Jersey, moved that a committee be ap¬
pointed to present to the Conference a Declaration of Principles embodying
the idea, or ground of organisation. A committee of nine—six men and
three women—was appointed by the chair. It was also moved that a
committee be raised to draft a form of constitution for local societies.
The Conference then adjourned till three o’clock to await the report
of its committees.
The afternoon session was opened with prayer by the President, Dr.
Watson. Minutes of the morning session were read and approved.
The committee on Declaration of Principles being called, reported the
following statement, which, after being freely and critically discussed,
was, with but some slight verbal alteration, unanimously adopted:
PLATFORM.
Preamble: We, Spiritualists of America in Conference assembled, conscious
of a deep religious nature in man, with its wants, its moral duties, and its
sacred obligations, conscious of a future existence made more clear and tan¬
gible by the present ministry of angels and spirits—believing, also, that the
genius of true Spiritualism, with its convincing demonstrations of immortal
lifo, is in consonance with the teachings and spiritual marvels of Jesus Christ,
as recorded in the New Testament, and feeling the necessity of a religious
organisation, free from an unbelieving atheism on the one hand, and on the
other from all creeds that tend to cramp and trammel the human soul, hold
that the time has come for associated effort and action.
STATEMENT OF AIMS.
While we seek after all knowledge, scientific, moral and spiritual—while we
study to know the truth and dare maintain it—our immediate objects are to
organise local societies upon a financial and religious basis; to cultivate love
and charity ; to become mutual helps in uniting our scattered forces; to
stimulate religious effort; to strengthen faith in God, protect and support
worthy mediums, and to encourage and promote purity of life, thus setting
examples before the world worthy of their following.
DECLARATION OF FRINCIPLES.
We recognise in Jesus of Nazareth the spiritual leader of men, and accept
His two great affirmations of love to God and love to man as constituting the
one ground of growth in the individual, and the only and sufficient basis of
human society.
The committee on form of constitution for local societies reported the
following, which, after due discussion, was unanimously adopted:—
CONSTITUTION OF THE SOCIETY FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SPIRITUALISM
Preamble.—We whose names are hereunto affixed, wishing to be united in
our labours and prayers for the better promotion of spiritual growth and the
orderly development of human life in our own persons, and also for the pro¬
motion and development of the same in the souls and lives of others, do
hereby adopt and subscribe the following Constitution as the basis of our
I government:—
Art. I. Name. The corporated name of this body shall be the —— Society,
I for the advancement of Spiritualism in .
Art. II. Sec. 1. Membership. Membership in this Society shall be without
j distinction of sex.
Sec. 2. Any person may become a member by subscribing to the Constitu-
; tion, and contributing not less than one dollar annually to the support of the
i Society.
Sec. 3. No person who is not a contributing member shall vote on the affairs
| of the Society.
Art. in. Officers. Sec. 1. The officers of the Society shall consist of a
President, Vice-President, Clerk, Treasurer, and Collector.
[ Sec. 2. The officers of the Society shall qualify in accordance with the
| statute in such cases made and provided.
Art. IV. Government. Sec. 1. The Government of the Society shall be
vested in an Executive Board, consisting of five members, who, being duly
j sworn, shall, with the aid of sub-committees, manage, direct, and be respon-
| sible for all the business of the Society.
Sec. 2. The President, Vice-President, Clerk, and Treasurer shall be added
to the Executive Board, and shall sit as ex-officio members.
Sec. 3. The President of the Society shall preside over the deliberations of
i the Board, and appoint, subject to the approving vote of the Board, the sub¬
committees of the Society,
Aug. 18, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
27
Sec. 4. The Board shall immediately npon its appointment proceed to com.
plete its organisation by the appointment of a Secretary, who shall keep a
fair and full record of all its proceedings.
Sec. 5. The following Sub-committees shall be annually appointed
1. A Health Committee. Embracing the laws of health and disease and the
care of the sick.
2. A Committee on Education. Embracing the theory of human life, to¬
gether with the practical modes of its development; and charged also with the
supervision and control of the Sunday-school, with power to determine (a) the
method of instruction, (b) Who shall teach, (c) What shall be taught,
(d) To provide through books, maps, and oral teaching such instruction for
teachers as may be necessary to fit them for their work, (e) To draw an order
upon the Treasurer of the Society for the expenses of the school, subject to
the approval of the Executive Board. ,
3. A Committee on Social Life. Embracing the organisation of the social
element in the Society, in accordance with the principles of the sciences of
man and of society and the extension of these principles to the community,
the commonwealth, and the nation.
4. Committee on Reforms. Embracing the true method of such changes in
social, economic, and civic life as the evolution of the time brings to the surface
of society.
5. A Committee on Spiritual Life. Embracing whatever pertains to worship
and the development of spiritual life.
Sec. 6. The Sub-committees shall, at the end of each fiscal year, and two
weeks previous to the Annual Meeting of the Society, make full report, in
writing, of all their doings to the Executive Board.
Sec. 7. The Executive Board shall meet on the first Mondays in January,
April, July and October, or at the call of the President, through a notice from
the desk, whenever business demanding attention shall require it.
Sec. 8. Five members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, but a less
number may adjourn.
Sec. 9. The Executive Board shall, at each Annual Meeting of the Society,
submit a report, in writing, of the entire work of the year, whether done
through the Board or the Sub-committees.
Art. V. Meetings. Sec. 1. The Executive Board shall direct the Clerk
to call an Annual Meeting of the Society, agreeably with the   — —
statutes, to be held at such time and place between the —— day of and
the day of , as they may elect.
Sec. 2. The fiscal year of the Society shall commence on the —— day of
—— in each year.
Sec. 3. The Executive Board shall call, upon requisition in writing, signed
by five members, such other meetings as the state of business may demand.
Art. VI. Elections. The officers and Executive Board shall be elected
annually by ballot, and shall serve till their successors are elected.
Art. VII. Quorum. Seven members shalLconstitute a quorum, but a less
number may adjourn.
Art. VIH. Appeals. In a case of dissatisfaction with the action of a
Sub-committee, appeal may be had to the Executive Board, and thence, if
satisfaction be not had, to the Society in lawful meeting assembled.
Art. IX. Amendments. Amendments, alterations or additions to this
Constitution may be proposed in writing at a legal meeting, but shall lie
over seven days before action shall be taken thereon.
Sec. 2. A two-thirds vote of members present at a legal meeting shall be
required to pass an amendment.
It was next moved that a committee of three be raised, to prepare an
address to the people, to go out with the declaration which this confer¬
ence sends to the country.
It was voted that the committee be authorised to prepare and print
the address as part of the minutes of the conference.
The conference then voted that a committee of twelve be raised,
divided into groups of threes, selected from the respective sections of the
country—north, middle, west, and south—empowered to oversee the
work of local organisation; and also empowered to call, at such time
and place, in the year 1877, as may seem to them fit, a delegate conven¬
tion, composed of five delegates from each society which shall be
formed within the year, and of such other persons, in places where
there are not enough to form a society, as may signify their sympathy
with the movement, and apply to the committee for credentials, which
convention shall have for its main business to decide the question of a
permanent national organisation, and to transact such other business as
may come before the convention.
Considerable discussion took place respecting the name of the new
movement. But a hearty and unanimous agreement was reached that
this was a question which ought to go over for final settlement to the
Delegate Convention next year. And it was voted that this body, for the
present, take the provisional title of “ The National Conference of
Spiritualists.”
After passing a vote that a copy of the minutes of the Conference be
sent to all the Spiritualist papers in the country, and thanking Mr.
Bliss for his kindness in the use of the hall, the Conference adjourned
to meet at the call of the committee of twelve.
Names of the committee: James Edward Bruce, M.D.; J. Hamilton
Dewey, M.D.; E. Gerry Brown; Rev. Wm. Fishbough; Eugene Cro¬
well, M.D.; E. P. Miller, M.D.; Rev. A. J. Fishback; E. C. Dunn,
M.D.; J. S. Avery, M.D.; Rev. Samuel Watson, D.D., with two other
names for the South, which Dr. Watson shall select.
All communications respecting the movement in general should be
addressed to the chairman of the committee of twelve, J. E. Bruce, New-
buryport, Mass.
Localities wishing to form societies, or societies wishing to notify the
committee of the fact of their organisation, etc., will take notice that J.
H. Dewey, of Boston, Mass., is chairman of the committee for New
England; Rev. William Fishbough, Brooklyn, E.D., N.Y., is chair¬
man for the Middle States; Rev. A. J. Fishback, Webster Grove, Mo.,
is chairman for the West; and Dr. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tenn.,
for the South. J. E. Bruce, Secretary.
Mr. W. H, Harrison will leave London for Scotland and the North
pf England towards the close of this month.
li
I
WHAT IS RELIGION?
Dr. Sexton, in the course of a lecture preached at Swindon, said■
What is religion ? This is a very large question, and one which has
been the source of endless controversies. Yet, after all, probably the
answer to it may be compressed into a very small compass. We
have it in the two great commandments of the Lord. Love to God
supremely, and love to man as an outcome of the love to God. If
a man does not love his brother, neither does he love God. The
word religion is derived from two Latin words, which mean to bind
again; and therefore, signifies the re-binding man to God, from whom
he has broken loose. This binding is by cords of love. The purpose of
religion is two-fold. First, that men should be good; second, that they
should give God the glory for their goodness. All religious symptoms
that fail of this are deficient in the essential feature of true religion.
Nor is this rule established by an arbitrary arrangement on the part
of God, but flows by an irresistible necessity from the constitution of
his nature and our own. It is the essence of love to wish to give some¬
thing of its own to another. God is Love, Perfect Love, Infinite Love.
Therefore, it is His desire to give of Himself to man. From this divine
desire man was created at first that he might receive the divine love,
appropriate it to himself, and live by it as of himself. This love is the
love of goodness, and, therefore, in proportion as a man loves goodness,
does he answer the purpose for which he was created. The primary
purpose of religion is to make man good. Selfishness is the opposite
of good. Now, to attribute to self that which comes from God is both
selfish and unjust. The second purpose of religion, therefore, is to make
man acknowledge that he owes all his goodness to God. If the ancient
religions are examined in the light of this grand truth, it will be seen
how utterly deficient they are, and how, while they vaguely point the
way to the glorious consummation which was to come, they themselves
fall far short of the true ideal. This principle will also form a test to
which we can bring the various Christian sects, with a view to ascertain
how far they are in accordance with the true religion.
THE LATE MR. RYMER, OF EALING.
(From the “ Harbinger of Light” Melbourne.)
The following biographical notice, from the Bendigo Advertiser of
the 16th May, of Mr. J. S. Rymer, of Sandhurst, formerly of Ealing,
London, England, will, no doubt, be read with interest by many of our
readers here and in England, to whom the departed gentleman was so
long and favourably known. Mr. Rymer became a sincere Spiritualist
many years ago in London, and remained so during his life in this
world, though nominally a member of the Church of England. His
funeral took place on Tuesday, the 17th May, and was attended to the
place of sepulture at the White Hills Cemetery, by a very numerous
cortege of all classes of the community, by whom he was much be¬
loved for his many sterling good qualities. All the solicitors of the
city walked in procession behind the hearse from the residence of the
deceased to the cemetery. At the Church of England, the service for
the dead was read by the Rev. W. R. Croxton, and by the same rev.
gentleman at the grave. A lady Spiritualist sent a beautiful bouquet
of flowers, which, by the hands of her husband, was placed on the
coffin, and, as was said by a gentleman present, was “a touching
tribute of respect to one who in this life was always spoken of as an
honest man.” The following is the notice referred to
“ The hand of death has again made itself felt in the ranks of the
old identities of the district; year by year are some of these old
familiar and kindly faces taken from us, and laid low and cold in their
last earthly resting place. We have with great regret to announce the
death of one of the oldest legal practitioners of this city, Mr. J. S.
Rymer, who expired on Sunday night at his residence, White Hills, at
the ripe old age of sixty-nine. The deceased gentleman has been
suffering from ill-health during the last few months, his affliction being
an attack of erysipelas, to which he finally succumbed. Mr. Rymer
was a resident of nineteen years standing, and, as a solicitor, had a
very extensive and lucrative practice, which he lately shared with his
son. When the deceased gentleman first arrived on Bendigo it was to
represent the firm of Klingender, Charlsley, and Rymer, of which he
was a member. After some time he withdrew from the firm, and
started practice on his own account, and his high-class abilities, legal
attainments, and extensive experience, gained in England, speedily
won for him numerous clients. In London he was a member of a
very influential firm of solicitors, who conducted an extensive equity
and Parliamentary agency business. The deceased gentleman was
widely respected for his undoubted honesty. One of his characteristics,
by which he gained so many friends and clients, was the thoroughly
disinterested and honest advice that he always tendered to anyone who
consulted him ; and often has he refused accepting a retainer in a case
to which he saw no good defence, counselling his clients to settle, and
thus save their pockets. Such men and actions are a credit to the
profession. It was because the fullest trust and reliance could be
placed upon Mr. Rymer’s integrity, and also upon his clever knowledge
of the law generally, that his practice grew to such dimensions, and the
firm of Rymer and Son became so much respected. The deceased
gentleman was of a particularly happy and genial turn of mind, and
relished a laugh and joke, even though at his own expense, with the
zest and good humour of a thorough Englishman and a gentleman.
His companionship was of the pleasantest and most enjoyable kind,
and as a friend he was warm-hearted, true, and sincere. During his
long years of residence in this city he made many friends, and won the
esteem of all with whom he came in contact, and it will be with
sincere regret that these will learn that the good-natured, kind-*
hearted, and honest old gentleman is now numbered with the dead.
Mr. Rymer some years ago took a deep interest in spiritual phenomena^
28
Aua. 1$, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
and published a work on the subject. He leaves no widow, but a
grown up family of three children to mourn the loss of a good father.
.At the City Court yesterday, Mr. Cogdon, the police magistrate, as
chairman of the bench, expressed his sorrow at hearing that Mr. Rymer
was dead. He felt sure that he had but echoed the sentiments of all
the magistrates who were in the habit of sitting on the bench when
he said that he learned the sad intelligence with extreme regret,
and felt the loss that the bar had sustained in the death of so able
and upright a gentleman. Mr. Brown, Mr. Motteram, and Mr. Ellis,
on behalf of the profession, also gave utterance to their deep regret.
Many were the private expressions of sorrow, too, that the court
habitues made ; on all hands it was seen that the deceased gentleman
was held in high esteem; and, indeed, any person who knew Mr. Rymer
well could not but feel that his death has left a void which will not
easily be filled.”
SPIRITUAL LECTURES IN LIVERPOOL.
Meyerbeer Hall, in the above town, continues to receive intelli-.
gent and respectable audiences, to listen to Sunday lectures on Spirit¬
ualism.
Last Sunday afternoon Mr. Samuel Pride made some interesting re¬
marks, by way of a “ lesson,” on a recent discourse by the Bishop of
Manchester, pertaining to the “ Prince of Darkness.” This was fol¬
lowed by Dr. Hitchman’s lecture, entitled, “ Is Spiritualism of the
Devil 1 ” in the course of which he advanced the opinion that Satan
is really the personification of an idea—a bodily demon, representing
the principle of evil, being an Asiatic conception, derived by ancient
Jews from Persians. In like manner death is personified as a grim
skeleton, with a crown on its cranium, and a dart in its metacarpal
bones, illustrative of universal despotic rule, and final conquest of old
mortality. Minerva is the synonym of Wisdom, Mars of War, Cupid
of Love, Bacchus of Wine, Yenus of Beauty. Hell itself is personified
as a huge monstrous dragon, whose gaping jaws are wide enough to
swallow the planet Earth, together with the inhabitants thereof; in
short, in all the sacred scriptures throughout the civilised world there is
the same conception of a universal wicked spirit, which embodies in
its own special personality all the evil, hatred, malice, uncharitableness,
cruelty, and wrong of every nation under heaven, yet known in dif¬
ferent countries by various names. Even so in the pantheistic idolatry
of ancient classic literature, human passions and virtuous sentiments
are personified, as deities of victory, benevolence, and justice, over¬
coming, like angels of love and mercy, pestilence, famine, and crime,
which latter are often represented as living, veritable, personal devils.
Religious mythology, with all its compounds of fear and ignorance,
the lecturer affirmed, must give way to a science of man, that is based
on the veracity of nature, against which superstition will contend in
vain.
Mr. Thomas Lunt has added much interest to the Sunday services,
in the afternoon, by his masterly performance of some choice selections
of sacred music, by eminent composers.
Last Sunday evening Mr. John Priest took for the subject of his
discourse, “Catholicity ; or, the Quality of being Liberal.” He
pointed out that the study of nature, when properly pursued, does not
lead the catholic philosophical mind to arrogate to itself the right of
“designing” the spiritual universe, or criticising, by gratuitous assump¬
tion, the possible or impossible of natural revelations, and the why and
the wherefore of all things spiritual. In the legitimate search for
truth, the philosopher of catholic heroic soul will not be guilty of
pride, folly, or shame, but walk humbly, devoutly, and tentatively.
The British Association for the Advancement of Science will meet
this year at Glasgow, and the proceedings will commence on Sept. 6th,
under the presidency of Dr, Andrews, of Belfast. Mr. Alfred Russell
Wallace will preside over the anthropological department. A good
gathering is expected. The inhabitants of Glasgow and neighbourhood
have subscribed no less than £6,000 towards the expenses.
A Scene at a Grave.—-Last week an estimable old lady, Mrs.
Potter, passed to spirit-life, strong in the orthodox faith, as were the
entire family, except the wife of a. son who resides in Boston. As a
matter of course, their pastor was called upon to officiate at the funeral,
and did so by reading a chapter in the Bible, and making a prayer at
the house, after which the immense concourse proceeded to the ceme¬
tery, where, when the mourners were arranged around the grave and
the coffin about to be lowered into the earth, Mrs. Jennie Potter (the
person mentioned as the wife of the son residing in Boston) was con¬
trolled, and while in the entranced state addressed the friends and
relatives of her whose material body lay before them, in such words of
eloquence, tenderness, and love, as to strike not only those more imme¬
diately addressed, but the entire assemblage with amazement, and, too,
such sweet words of comfort to those so sorrowfully in attendance.
The unfeigned interest of none seemed so great as that of the
pastor, who, after the coffin had been lowered, when asked to “ pro¬
nounce the benediction,” remarked simply, “I feel that I can add
nothing to what has already been said,” when slowly, silently, and
apparently confounded, those assembled moved away satisfied at least,
that what they had heard was not solely the production of Mrs. Potter,
the medium, but from a higher source, and entitled to grave considera¬
tion. This was shown after the return of the friends to the house,
when this company of church members asked the medium to form a
circle and allow the spirit friends further conversation with them who
had never before believed such to be a possibility. Mrs. Potter com¬
plied with the request, and the mother, whose earthly form had just
been interred, came and spoke most convincingly.—lUUgio-Philo-
tophical Journal,
i(
i i
i)i
THE BRAVO CASE.
As set forth by the Daily News and Standard, great
dissatisfaction prevails at the recent verdict in the Balham
case, and it is not to be wondered at that the Judges of the
Court of Queen’s Bench should have hesitated to grant an
order for a second inquest, or that, in the recent Government
Proclamation offering a reward, it should be set forth that a
coroner’s jury called it11 murder,” instead of describing it as
murder in unqualified terms. A fair verdict would have been
that Mr. Bravo died of poisoning by antimony, but how ad¬
ministered there was no evidence to show. Stupid people are
in the habit of forming strong conclusions on insufficient evi¬
dence, as if they were bound to come to a decision under
the circumstances, and the present is a case in point.
Dr. Gully, one of the most kind-hearted men that ever
drew breath, and who never saw Mr. Bravo in his
life, has had his name dragged into the matter, simply
because he once or twice accidentally met Mrs. Cox out of
doors some time ago, and performed a good-natured act or
two at her request.
The Daily News has published the most sensible com¬
ments on the subject. Vanity Fair recently published a
likeness of Dr. Gully, accompanied by the following
article:—
“ There is not in the medical profession so remarkable a
man, or one who has had so notable a career in such original
paths, as Dr. Gully. He was born sixty-nine years ago, in
Jamaica, and being sent to Liverpool, to Paris, and to Edin¬
burgh, he worked with great determination and industry
through the schools, and at twenty-one was proclaimed a Doc¬
tor in Medicine. He at once went to London, and struck out a
line of his own by applying himself to the literature of his
profession rather than to obtaining an immediate snug
practice in it. He edited the London Medical Journal, and
published many original articles, as well as translations of
French and German medical works. But the ordinary
grooves could never hold a man like him. He soon convinced
himself of the new doctrine of hydropathy, and at thirty-
four he was established in Malvern as one of its most
promising apostles. For years he practised the treatment
with much success and great accession of reputation. He
was also devoted to phrenology, while his ordinary system of
medicine was homoeopathic j but what made him the man
of influence he soon became was rather his very agreeable
presence, his polished manners, and the charm of his
companionship and converse, enriched with the stores of a
large and varied experience. Added to all this, he possesses
a strong will and great force of character, and being also an
easy-going man of the world, his society has always been
much in request by all who knew him. The connection of
his name with the sudden death of the husband of one of
his friends has doubtless caused him as much pain as it
has brought surprise to the large circle of acquaintances who
had learnt to honour and respect him.”
“Animal Parasites and Messmates.”—The work with this title,
by P. J. van Beneden (H. S. King and Co.) forms Vol. XX. of Messrs.
King and Co.’s “ International Scientific Series,” and certainly abounds
in curious information, though the reading of it hardly tends to in¬
creased peace of mind. We rather think we were the happier before
we were informed, as we are here, that as no animal is free from para-
ites, so man himself affords hospitality to “ some dozens of them.”
It is much more likely than not, it seems, that we, and the bulk of our
readers with us, are nourishing “ some Acari, of the genus Simonea, in
the membrane of the nose.” Our brain, our ears, our eyes, our blood,
lungs, spinal marrow, nerves, muscles, and bones, all afford convenient
abodes for these odious little inmates, to dwell in and prey upon us at
their leisure. To avoid them is impossible, as we take them in the
animal food we swallow and the water we drink. The author assures
us that the vast majority of them don’t do us the least harm—in fact,
we are rather the better for them than otherwise; but still the reflec¬
tion that we cannot keep ourselves to ourselves, do what we will, is
extremely uncomfortable. By “ Messmates ” the author denotes those
creatures which, fixing themselves either in the organism of or in close
vicinity to some neighbour, help themselves to a share of his food, in
distinction from the parasite, which gets its living out of the very
substance of the animal to which it clings. In spite of the unsavoury
nature of much of the information here furnished, and a certain
diffuseness and want of arrangement in communicating it, the book
may be read with profit by any one who does not mind being made
occasionally to feel “ creepy.”—7%$ Echo.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
29
r Aua. 18, 1876.
A MISSOUBI PRODIGY.
A great deal has been said and written about the great
mathematical prodigy, “Reub.” Fields, who lives at Fayette¬
ville, Mo., says the Warrensburgh Democrat, and the more
that is known of him, the greater wonder he becomes. He
does not possess the simple rudiments of a book education—
does not know a letter or figure from sight—and yet can
solve the most intricate problem in an instant, or can per¬
form a calculation in less than a minute that would require
an hour by the ordinary modes. For instance : We gave
him the day of the month and the year of our birth, and he
told, in less than half a minute, our age in seconds, minutes,
days and years. Give him the day of the month and the
year of any event, however remote, and he will instantly
give the day of the week.
We spent two hours with him last Saturday, and notwith¬
standing we have often talked with him and seen him
display his wonderful gifts, yet we always find something
new in him.
We placed a column of figures upon a paper, equal in
length to the columns of an ordinary-sized ledger, and
called them off to him in rapid succession, and when the
last number was called, he gave the sum without a moment’s
hesitation. He did not see the paper, and “would not have
known a character on it if he had. One hour later he
repeated those numbers in the exact order in which we
called them to him. We then began at the bottom, and
would call two or three numbers correctly, and then one
incorrectly, and he would correct us by giving the proper
number.
More mysterious than this to us is the fact of his ability
to give correctly the time of the day or night whenever
called upon, without any reference whatever to a timepiece.
In this town the timepieces are all regulated by railroad
or St. Louis time. If you ask ct Reub.” the time he will
say: “ I am 15J minutes past one; if you have railroad
time you have so and so,” giving the exact difference between
sun time and railroad time.
Another remarkable fact is that he gives the exact time of
his locality. If he is in Washington city he gives Wash¬
ington city time; if in San Francisco the time there. He
cannot possibly do these things by any method of calculating
the passing time, for he will give time as accurately when
waked from sleep at night as if it were daylight and the sun
shining.
There seems to be nothing too great in numbers for his
mind to grasp, and yet nothing too small. He can tell what
the interest of one cent, would be in three seconds at the
rate of 10 per cent, per annum as readily and as easily as
we could tell the interest on a dollar for one year at the same
rate per cent.—Spiritual Scientist (Boston, U.S.)
The Life of Mohammed.—The distinguishing features of Moham¬
med’s teaching were love for man and loyalty to God, and what has
been called his intense egotism was only an appreciation of his glorious
mission. Despising carnal weapons, yet, like Christ, he, in moments
of wrath, hurled withering invectives against his opposers, and like
Him he taught humility and sublime charity. His virtue was above
reproach. His devotion to Cadizah is an Eastern proverb. He never
frequented the wine shops or looked on the amusements of the vulgar.
He was fond of children, visited the sick, was gentle, humble, and
kind. He always waited on himself, mended his own garments, milked
his own goats, and never struck anybody in his life. When asked to
give a curse, he said, “ I have not been sent to curse, but to be a
mercy to mankind.” Once when unkind to a beggar a verse of the
Koran reproached him—“ Use no violence in religion.” He disdained
the life of a hermit, yet imitated the simplicity of that life. He never
tasted wine, and his hunger was appeased with a scanty allowance of
barley bread, with milk and honey on rare occasions. His ordinary
diet consisted of dates and water. It must be admitted that the cha¬
racter of Mohammed underwent a great change after the hegira. The
persecuted reformer, begging a hearing for the inspirations received in
the solitude of the cave and the waste, was received by the people of
Medina with open arms. His scattered disciples in Abyssinia resorted
to his standard, the covert ones at Mecca rallied around him, and he
became a chieftain at the head of an army able to enforce his doctrines.
He maintained an austere simplicity. . When he preached he leaned
against a palm tree, not indulging himself in the luxury of a chair
pulpit. The ambassador from Mecca was astonished by the respect
and reverence paid him by the faithful. “ I have seen,” said he,
“ Chassoes of Persia and Coesars of Rome, but never did I behold a
king among his subjects, like Mohammed among his companions.”—
ftdigio-Philosophical Journal.
I THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
| On Tuesday evening, last week, a Council meeting of the National
Association of Spiritualists was held at 38, Great Russell-street, Lon¬
don, W.C., under the presidency of Mr. Alexander Calder. The other
I members present were Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. D. BE. Wilson,
| Mr. R. Pearce, the Rev. W. W. Newbould, Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. A.
Joy, Mr. E. D. Rogers,. Mrs. Rogers, Mr. Glendinning, and Miss
! Houghton.
In the absence of the secretary, Mrs. Carter Blake performed the
duties of the office, and, at the beginning of the meeting, on the motion
of Mr. Rogers, she was instructed by the Council to prepare a report
of the proceedings to be presented to the Correspondence Committee,
i Mr. Joy “seconded this motion.
Several new members were then elected.
A letter from Mr. Martin Smith was read on the subject of the Prize
Essays, and resigning his appointment on the Correspondence Com¬
mittee.
| On the motion of Mr. Rogers, Mr. Algernon Joy was appointed' a
] member of the committee in the place of Mr. Martin Smith, and the
consideration of the rest of Mr. Smith’s letter was deferred tiH the
next meeting.
The Chairman read the report of the Correspondence Committee. It
set forth that at a meeting of the committee at which Messrs. Dawson,
Rogers, Bennett, and Calder were present, a resolution was passed
expressing the opinion that it was an act of discourtesy on the part of
j Mr. Harrison to write a letter to the Council, and to publish it before
j they received it.
The letter was then produced, but not read. It set forth that it
would be published in advance, in order to give the Council time to
discover and record the alleged inaccuracies in a report in The
Spiritualist.
Mr. Rogers then made a speech relating chiefly to personal matters;
in the course of it he admitted there was no error in the newspaper
report in question, but complained that the remarks made by himself
and Mr. Bennett about the abolition of Mr. Joy’s honorary secretaryship
had been omitted.
Mr. E. T. Bennett moved that a short report of the proceedings of
the Council be drawn up monthly, printed upon the agenda, and circu¬
lated among the members of the Association.
This was seconded by Mr. Joy and passed unanimously, Mr. Fitz-
I) j Gerald remarking that the contents of the Minute Book ought rather to
j j be printed, and not a version of the proceedings drawn up by a com*
I mitt.ee.
Mr. Bennett said that if Mr. Rogers felt any annoyance from remarks
j11 made about him in The Spiritualist, he hoped that he would feel, from
jj his unanimous election as vice-president, that there was a general feel-
jh ing of confidence in him on the Council. He then embodied this
jj] remark in a formal resolution, which was passed.
The revision of the rules and constitution was then proceeded with.
)j It was agreed that it was better to abolish the proxy system of voting,
j | and that every member should give in his own vote at elections of mem-
j j i bers of the Council.
The rule prohibiting payment to members of Council for services ren-
jj dered to the Association, was attempted to be abolished, but after a
Hi division was retained by a small majority.
A discussion took place about making a rule of one of the bye-laws,
Jj enforcing members of the Council who had foreign diplomas, to place
11 the name of the town or college whence such diploma was obtained, after
j j the indicating letters in any printed document of the Association con-
j J j taining their names.
Mr. Rogers spoke against the incorporation of this with the rules, and
[Jj said that even as a bye-law it would never work, and had not been
Jj enforced in the past.
Mr. Joy was against the transformation of this bye-law into a rule,
] J! although he had been requested to move that the transformation be
] J i made. He thought that it ought to remain a bye-law.
jj The proposed addition to the rules was accordingly not made.
After the transaction of some minor business the proceedings closed.
ij] The Argument of Design.—These religious people see nothing but
jjj design everywhere, and personal,intelligent interference in everything.
i|j They insist that the uni verse, has. been created, and that the adaptation
jj| of means to ends is perfectly apparent. They point us to the sunshine,
jjj to the April rain, and to all there is of beauty and use in the world,
i | i Did it ever occur to them that a cancer is as beautiful in its develop-
ij! ment as is the reddest rose? That what they are pleased to call the
j j adaptation of means to ends, is as apparent in the cancer as in the
jlj April rain! How beautiful the process of digestion! By what in-
jjj genious methods the blood is poisoned so that the cancer shall have
j j j food ! By what wonderful contrivances the entire system of man is
]Jj made to pay tribute to this divine and charming.cancer. See by what
j j i admirable instrumentalities it feeds itself from the surrounding qui-
j j! vering, dainty flesh ! See how it gradually but surely expands and
j J j grows! By what marvellous mechanism it is supplied with long and
j j j slender roots that reach out to the most secret nerves of pain for sus-
l|j tenance and life ! "What beautiful colours it presents! Seen through
!{i the microscope, it is a miracle of order and beauty. All the ingenuity
jjj of man cannot stop its growth. Think of the amount of thought it
iji must have required to invent a way by which the life of one man
iji might be given to produce one cancer. Is it possible to look upon it
] j i and doubt there is design in the universe, and that the inventor of this
i i wonderful cancer must be infinitely powerful, ingenious, and good ?—
jjj Col. IngersoU. - ,, ,v
Aug. 18, 1876.
tHfe SPIBITtJALIST.
30
A MATERIALISATION SEANCE WITH DR. SLADE.
BY WM. H. HARRISON.
This evening Dr. Slade was kind enough to invite me to
an experimental materialisation seance with him. He does
not sit for these phenomena, except on rare occasions, because
they exhaust his vitality too much.
He had no cabinet, unless a common table may be dignified
by that name. He placed his light little wooden rectangular
table, size about five feet by four, with no cover, three feet
from one corner of the room, first turning the table upside
down to show me that there was nothing concealed under¬
neath it. The gaslight was turned very low, but all the
objects in the room could be seen in outline. Dr. Slade also
was in full view, as he sat by my side, with his hands on
mine, waiting for spirits to appear. We were sitting on one
side of the table watching the corner of the room opposite us,
for there, Dr. Slade informed me, the spirits were likely to
materialise. After waiting for about five minutes, a full-
sized human figure gradually rose in the corner. It was
covered, all but the face, with white drapery, and there was
not light enough to distinguish the features. The form,
which I could see from head to waist, remained in the corner
of the room, nearly motionless, for a minute or two, after
which it sank down until the view of it was cut off by the
further edge of the table. I then asked for u more light,”
in order to see it better, should it rise once more. Dr. Slade
accordingly turned up the gas a little, and at the same time
told me not to move in the slightest degree; he also was
disinclined to move himself to turn up the gas, as he had an
impression that absolute stillness on our part strengthened
the conditions favouring the appearance of the form.
A second time it rose, and on this occasion I was able to
see that the face was that of a woman, with beautiful
features, so far as the dim light would allow them to be
seen. There was not sufficient light to enable me to see
whether the features were flexible and living, or whether the
apparition was some representative or symbolical figure,
manufactured and materialised by spirits unseen at the
stance. From past experience I have every reason to believe
that spirits sometimes exhibit forms without life in them in
the way just mentioned. Perhaps at the next seance there
may be light enough for me to be able to state whether
these forms are living or otherwise.
One thing was perfectly clear, namely, that Dr. Slade had
nothing to do with the production of the form which I saw;
he, like myself, was a passive spectator. He stated that he
knew the spirit, and that she was related to him.
88, Great Eussell-street, August 10th, 1876.
MESSAGES AT A SEANCE WITH DR. SLADE.
BY C. CARTER BLAKE, BOO. SCI.
I have been asked to state the nature of the “ intelligible ”
messages received by me at the sSance with Dr. Slade de¬
scribed in the last number of The Spiritualist.
The first, as I have stated, was from “ Allie.”
The second was u J. R. O’H.”
To my question—“ Does that mean John Reynolds
O’Neil ? ” written by me on the slate, which was afterwards
turned down, and invisible to Dr. Slade, the answer in
writing was :—
“Yes, 133 is Charles F. Crokat’s.”
The above are the real names and indicate those of War
Office fellow-clerks of mine in 1859. Mr. O’Neil, M.A., of
Corpus Christi College, Oxford, died on July 28th last.
There was a strong resemblance between his peculiar hand¬
writing and that on the slate.
A neatly-printed little pamphlet by Mrs. Weldon, containing par¬
ticulars about her Orphanage, can be had gratis on application to
Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
On Sunday, August 6th, Mr. J. J. Morse gave two addresses at the
hall of the Newcastle Society of Spiritualists in Newgate-street, New¬
castle, that in the afternoon on “ The Mission of Spiritualism; its
Nature and Value.’’ Mr. J. T. Rhodes presided. In the evening the
subject was the “ Workshops of God,” and Mr. T. P. Barkas presided;
on the platform was Mr. W. C. Robson, who, before the address, read
the leading article from The Spiritualist of Aug. 4th. The address
itself was one of the best given through the mediumship of Mr. Morse.
I SPIRITUALISM IN CONTINENTAL EUROPE.
NO. II.
BY EMILY KISLINGBTJRY.
Wimille, Pas de Calais, Aug. 11th.
In consequence of the high westerly winds which have
| prevailed on this coast during the past week, it has been
| impossible for us to make any of the distant excursions
j which Miss Blackwell had planned for my visit; but one
| has only to go outside the door to feast one’s eyes on a land-
I scape of varied and ever-changing beauty. The hilly and
j broken nature of the ground gives that most charming
| feature of a variety of middle distances, presenting a vivid
contrast of colour, according to the crops grown, and end¬
less gradations of light and shade. From almost every
point the sea forms the horizon, the deep blue of which,
bounded by the gray line of the English cliffs, added to the
| clearness and brilliance of the French sky, provides an ex-
|, quisite setting to the landscape. Then the greatest charm
j of all is the almost preternatural stillness of this spot,
which seems created on purpose for the refreshment of weary
brains and tired-out human nature.
It is evident, however, that on brains or souls not yet
awakened to activity, solitude has a stupefying effect. The
Madame who drove me from Boulogne in her equipage^ and
who may be about fifty years of age, has not yet seen the
sea at Wimereux, and until Miss Blackwell began to give
her commissions in Boulogne, she had never been but in
one single street in that town, though she has driven there
every week for years past to sell the produce of her little
farm. The children in the few cottages about here have
most of them never seen the sea, except from a distance, al¬
though it is only about a mile off; and a ploughboy to whom
Miss Blackwell once pointed out the beauties of the sunset,
seemed to think the sight beneath his notice, though all
very well for wonder-seeking travellers and foreigners like
ourselves.
During the rough weather outside I have been wandering
pleasantly, and, I hope, profitably, in the gardens of the
Spiritist philosophy with Allan Kardec, and am beginning
to find my way up and down the two volumes Miss Black-
well has translated, and La Gendse, which is the last of the
series, and exceedingly beautiful, being a summing up of
the ideas imparted from various sources during the long
investigations of the writer. One most striking feature in
Allan Kardec’s writings is the minute foreseeing of the
manifestations which were later to be developed, and of the
difficulties, moral and physical, which would attend them,
as we are at present beginning to realise. This is more
particularly observable in the Mediums' Book, which was
written in 1861, eight or nine years after the Spirits' Book.
The great value, however, of the Kardec writings is, in my
opinion, that they set forth as the aim of his doctrines, the
moral elevation of man—an aim which I once fondly hoped
was to be achieved by wbat we understand as Spiritualism,
but which experience shows that mere phenomenalism will
never accomplish. When I come personally among the
followers of Kardec in Paris, I shall be better able to judge
whether any good moral effect is being produced by the
beliefs which his philosophy inculcates; certain it is that a
good moral tone prevails in all the books and journals con¬
nected therewith that I have as yet seen. I believe, also, that
both in America and England many il righteous souls are
vexed,” and many faithful workers are becoming heart-weary,
on account of the irregularities which the pursuit of pheno¬
menal Spiritualism seems rather to have caused than to have
checked.
I regret to find that no other correspondent of The
Spiritualist has taken up the question mooted by me of the
fact of transformation as against materialisation. A very
interesting case bearing upon this subject is cited in the
Mediums' Booh, page 133, which is too long for me to quote
now, but which I recommend to the attention of your
readers.
I leave this charming place and my kind and pleasant
hostess next week, when, after spending a few days at St.
Valery-en-Caux with the family of Prince Wittgenstein, I
shall go on to Paris, where Madame Leymarie will arrange
for me to visit her husband in prison, and where I hope to
And. 18, 1876.
31
THE SPIRITUALIST.
gain much information as to the past history and present
state of the spiritual movement in France.
I am writing the last part of this letter in Miss Blackwell’s
little cabin on the sands at Wimereux, where we have been
spending the day. Miss Blackwell says she wishes she could
send to the National Association of Spiritualists sketches of
their secretary walking barefooted across the wet places on
the sands, and dabbling in the sea at low water, carrying the
canvas shoes, embroidered in gorgeous colours, with hempen
soles, which are the only possible and proper chawssure (only
to be translated by foot-gear) for this country.
WASHINGTON IRVING ON COMMUNION WITH SPIRITS. IJ
Among those who have testified to their longing for the IJ
consolation which the belief in angelic guardianship brings, I j
and to their high appreciation of the beautiful truths which |
underlie it, was Washington Irving, and it is in this lan- j!
guage his desires found utterance :
“ I am now alone in my chamber. The family have long j
since retired. I have heard their footsteps die away, and the j
doors clap to after them. The murmur of voices and the j
peal of remote laughter no longer reach the ear. The clock j
from the church, in which so many of the former inhabitants j!
of this house lie buried, has chimed the awful hour of [
midnight.
“ I have sat by the window and mused upon the dusky j!
landscape, watching the lights disappearing one by one from I;
the distant village; and the moon rising in her silent j <
majesty, and leading up all the silvery pomp of heaven. As j
I have gazed upon these quiet graves and shadowy lawns, i;
silvered over and imperfectly lighted by dewy moonshine, my !
mind has been crowded by (thick-coming fancies ’ concerning j
those spiritual beings which |
‘ walk the earth
Unseen both when we wake and when we sleep.’
cl Are there, indeed, such beings ? Is this space between !
us and the Deity filled up by innumerable orders of spiritual |
beings, forming the same gradations between the human j
soul and divine perfection that we see prevailing from ,j
humanity down to the meanest insect ? It is a sublime and j
beautiful doctrine inculcated by the early fathers, that there j
are guardian angels appointed to watch over cities and j
nations, to take care of good men, and to guard and guide j
the steps of helpless infancy. Even the doctrine of departed j
spirits returning to visit the scenes and beings which were I
dear to them during the body’s existence, though it has been |
debased by the absurd superstitions of the vulgar, in itself !
is awfully solemn and sublime.
“ However lightly it may be ridiculed, yet the attention j
involuntarily yielded to it whenever it is made the subject of I
serious discussion, and its prevalence in all ages and j
countries, even among newly-discovered nations, that have
had no previous interchange of thought with- other parts of |
the world, prove it to be one of those mysterious and in- I
stinctive beliefs to which, if left to ourselves, we should I
naturally incline. . . .
“ In spite of all the pride of reason and philosophy, a !
vague doubt will still lurk in the mind, and perhaps will |
never be eradicated, as it is a matter that does not admit of |
ositive demonstration. Who yet has been able to compre- j
end and describe the nature of the soul; its mysterious j
connection with the body ; or in what part of the frame it is j
situated ? We know merely that it does exist; but whence j
it came, and entered into us, and how it operates, are all |
matters of mere speculation and contradictory theories. If, |
then, we are thus ignorant of this spiritual essence, even j
while it forms a part of ourselves, and is continually present j
to our consciousness, how can we pretend to ascertain or j
deny its power and operations, when released from its fleshy j
prison-house ?
“ Everything connected with our spiritual nature is full of [
doubt and difficulty. ‘We are fearfully and wonderfully |
made,’ we are surrounded by mysteries, and we are mysteries
even to ourselves. It is more the manner in which this |
superstition has been degraded, than its intrinsic absurdity,
that has brought it into contempt. Raise it above the j
frivolous purposes to which it has been applied, strip it of [
the gloom and horror with which it has been enveloped, and
there is none in the whole circle of visionary creeds that
could more delightfully elevate imagination or more tenderly
affect the heart. It would become a sovereign comfort at
the bed of death, soothing the bitter tear wrung from us by
the agony of mortal separation.
“ What could be more consoling than the idea that the
souls of those we once loved were permitted to return and
watch over our welfare ?—that affectionate and guardian
spirits sat by our pillows when we slept, keeping a vigil
over our most helpless hours ?—that beauty and innocence,
which had languished into the tomb, yet smiled unseen
around us, revealing themselves in those blest dreams
wherein we live over again the hours of past endearments ?
A belief of this kind would, I should think, be a new in¬
centive to virtue, rendering us circumspect, even in our most
secret moments, from the idea that those we once loved and
honoured were invisible witnesses of all our actions.
“ It would take away, too, from the loneliness and desti¬
tution which we are apt to feel more and more as we get on
in our pilgrimage through the wilderness of this world, and
find that those who set forward with us lovingly and cheerily
on the journey, have one by one dropped away from our side.
I Place the superstition in this light, and I confess I should
like to be a believer in it. I see nothing in it that is in-
| compatible with the tender and merciful nature of our
! religion, or revolting to the wishes and affections of the
| heart.
“ There are departed beings that I have loved as I never
again shall love in this world ; that have loved me as I never
again shall be loved. If such beings do even retain in their
blessed spheres the attachments which they felt on earth;
if they take an interest in the poor concerns of transient
mortality, and are permitted to hold communion with those
whom they have loved on earth, I feel as if now, at this
| deep hour of night, in this silence and solitude, I could
| receive their visitations with the most solemn but unalloyed
I delight.” || -
The North of England Review of August 4th. contained an excellent
| portrait of Mr. Skipsey, of Ashington, Northumberland, also lengthy
| extracts from The Spiritualist concerning bis powers of clairvoyance.
| Picnic of the Newcastle Spiritualists.—On Monday, Aug. 7th,
| under the auspices of the Newcastle Spiritualist Society a picnic was
held in the grounds of Mr. W. R. Armstrong, at High Cross Lodge,
I Elswick-lane, near Benwell. This scene of the gathering is in the
extreme western suburb of the town, situated on the brow of a hill
overlooking the valley of the Tyne; southward may be observed the
Team Valley, leading towards Durham, with Ravensworth Castle on
the right; and on the west are uninterrupted views of Tynedale, with
its hills and vales for miles. The weather was all that could be desired,
with a soft westerly breeze and a grey sky, pleasant for out-door exer¬
cise, without being too warm; the consequence was that about one
hundred and fifty persons were attracted to the place. The vinery and
greenhouses were inspected; there was boating on a small lake,
and swings for the children under the trees. At tea-time the
visitors began to assemble on the croquet-lawn, when their attention
was arrested by the unexpected arrival of a photographer’s van, con¬
taining Mr. Mendhelson, of Oxford-street, Newcastle, with two assist¬
ants. These, in a short space of time, soon grouped, first the committee
and mediums, then as many of the general company as possible, so that
some lasting memento of a pleasing meeting will hereafter be obtainable.
Tea over, Mr. J. J. Morse addressed the meeting, with Mr. W. C. Robson
in the chair. Mr. Morse observed that twelve months ago he had bis
first experience of out-door camp-life in America among Spiritualists,
and he hoped that next year the society would—encouraged by their
present success—hold a meeting on a still more extended scale. After
an address in the trance condition on “ Life’s Four Seasons, their Uses
and Lessons,” Mr. Nicholson proposed, and Mr. Mould seconded, a
j vote of thanks to Mr. Armstrong for the free use of his beautiful
1 grounds. This was heartily accorded. Mr. Armstrong, in acknow¬
ledgment, said that he was only too happy to be able to do something
that would in some measure compensate for the benefit to him of the
great truths of Spiritualism. He had investigated the subject for some
| years now, and it had engaged his attention night and day. Mr. H. A.
Kersey, in proposing a vote of thanks to the chairman, said that he
stood there a living example of one of the uses of Spiritualism, for, in
November last, he was suffering from rheumatic fever and inflammation
of the lungs at the same time. He was attended by two of the most
eminent medical men in Newcastle, and was given up by them. Then
his sister, who was a medium, took the case in hand, and, acting solely
; under the direction of spirit guides, was enabled to restore him to his
| present state of health; he, therefore, felt it to be bis bounden duty to
i do all he could for Spiritualism. A vote of thanks having been passed
to the chairman and to the ladies, another hour or so was spent on the
lawn, in the cool breezes and evening moonlight, and thus terminated a
happy day, unalloyed by the slightest mishap or inharmonious action
* of any kind.
&
Am. 18, 1876.
THE SPntITtJAlIST.
llortnj.
THESE TWO.
They stood together in the snn;
His glory shone around them both.
Two, did I say ? nay, they were one
By holy word and plighted troth.
A strong firm arm about her prest;
A tranquil light on sea and shore;
A golden head upon his breast—
A maiden smiling—nothing more.
A little churchyard on the hill;
A heavy cloud o’er sea and wave ;
A deathlike silence, sad and still;
Green turf above a new made grave;
A black -robed figure kneeling there,
A blissful dream now past and o’er,
A golden head bowed low with care—
A maiden weeping—nothing more.
Gasoline A. Burke.
A LYRIC OF THE GLEAMING SICKLE.
By J. T. Markley.
Hail, genii of the sheaves 1
Once more ring musical the holy blades!
A nation’s bread, fire-hued, on groaning glades,
Cerean beauty leaves!
Work on! ye god-called, song urged, sun lash’d swains
Brown Autumn’s affluent yield is on the plains,
Sweet days and cool calm nights,
The rare companionship of faithful moons
That follow playfully unmoistened noons—
These be the tokens of the harvest-tide!
Each field, earth’s heiress ! witness! lover! bride 1
Here labour is half love,
And merry-hearted toilers grumble not
Or frown upon their lot;
The seal upon their work is from above,
What rapture! hallow’d sweat! united glee!
Quaint snatches of the psalms that used to be,
The majesty of labour drunk with song,
The weak arm willing, and the willing, strong ;
What pleasing mystery!
A world supported by the breasts of hills,
As children helplessly
Turn to the blue-veined, snowy fountain rills
Of mothers’ paps, which feed
Dependents in their need.
Bless’d be those hills! which bear, in amber trail,
Rich com, awaiting punishment of flail!
Thrice bless’d Cerealia—feast of yearly good
Warm bursts of plenty where the spring plough stood !
Be this an August birth ?
Or is it not green beauty’s ripening day
Of age and fruitful worth ?
No more with April’s laughing suns to play.
’Tis now the gleaming sickle time,
The glad thanksgiving bells may chime ;
The proud and smiling farmer gathers in
What toil has sown, and toil can only win;
E’en Ruth, the hopeful gleaner, lingers at the gate,
Nor must the softly hooded maiden, empty wait 1
Peterborough Advertiser.
(Eomgponiience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrkaUy opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
ART MAGIC.
Sir,—Through the courtesy of an English friend, I have been favoured
with two copies of your journal, each containing letters which I can
simply characterise as abusive of the work which I have recently edited
and published entitled Art Magic. Truth to say, I find nothing in
either letter which would induce me to waste time and postage in an¬
swering ; but there are in this country several readers of Art Magic,
who, like myself, feel indignant at the reiteration of these senseless and
abusive letters, and who urge me, in the interest of truth and justice, to
put in a protest against this illiberal method of treating a work which
has excited the highest admiration and praise from hundreds of its
readers, both in this country and in Europe. I am entirely prepared
for all the bitterness which theological bigotry could vent on this work,
nor can I wonder that those who deem their idols are assailed by the
unanswerable truths put forth in Art Magic, should avail themselves of
any excuse they can find to denounce it; yet I am somewhat surprised
that so high toned and valuable a journal as The Spiritualist should lend
its columns to such merely illogical denunciation as that which appears
in the issue of June 14th over the signature of “John Rouse.” Mr. ij
John Rouse’s opinion of Art Magic is, “ that it is a mass of antiquated (
rubbish.” To those who adjust their methods of thinking by Mr. John j\
Rouse’s opinion, no doubt this is a piece of valuable information. The |)
same high authority states that he has “ read all that the book contains H
in other works.” Now, it is not for the sake of combatting Mr. John j(
Rouse’s opinions or statements—neither of which materially affect me— |
that I now write, but as straws will tell which way the wind blows, so \l
this great critic’s opinion furnishes me with a text for an inquiry which i
many others, besides myself, are disposed to make. It is this: Will !(
any of the great savants of my own country, those, for instance, who can j(
find nothing new in Art Magic, inform me what constitutes the real \)
! value of a book ? Might an ignorant individual like myself presume
! to inquire of the John Rouses of literature, whether it is the novelty of
the statements made, or the manner of their statement, which attaches
the stamp of merit to a work ?
| If it be the former, then “ Mother Goose,” and all the new ideas
j which pervade fairy tales and one-syllable legends, should be more
highly esteemed than Shakespeare, Byron, Goethe, and Schiller, none of
whom are especially distinguished, that I can learn, for putting forth
new ideas, although they have acquired some reputation for incarnating
i old and familiar ideas in super-excellent forms. With my very limited
powers of critical analysis, I am unable to discover any difference in the
| substance of the historical facts recorded by Peter Parley and Macaulay,
i yet somehow the manner of the two records seems to differ, constituting
| the one the historian of ten and twelve year old readers, and the other
; an authority even with the contemporaries of Mr. John Rouse.
I In my early years I was in the habit of attending the church services of
I my own country, but I never remember anything particularly original
i falling on my listening ears, even when the utterances proceeded from
| the consecrated lips of Deans and Bishops, yet what orthodox individual
i would gainsay the value of the sacred platitudes I then heard, because
| they were not especially new or original?
I I presume Mr. John Rouse is too devoted a Bible student to have for-
| gotten that “ there is nothing new under the sun; ’’ poor Thomas Hood
| would have added, except “Christian Charitystill, I, in my ignorance of
i all that has ever been written on such subjects, deemed that the mode
i in which the author of Art Magic had brought together in one grand
i prospective view the records of ancient magic, their origin and progress,
| explaining and illustrating them with mediaeval mysticism and modern
| spiritual science, might form a record worthy even of the attention of
i such enlightened and universally informed Spiritualists as Mr. John
i Rouse.
Nay, more; in my misapprehension of the Vast expanse of knowledge
which Spiritualists of the “ Rouse ” type have attained to, I had deemed,
i as I stated in the editor’s preface to Art Magic, that “ the sublimity of
| the sentiments, the grandeur of the intention, and the high-toned
[ philosophy which pervaded this noble work,” might make amends for
[ the absence of that startling novelty, far more discoverable in a Christ-
I mas pantomime than in the ethics of John Stuart Mill or Thomas Car-
hj lyle. As to the chances that the Spiritualists of this generation will
|) I become lunatics through the study of Art Magic, I can only say with all
j j sincerity, it is a great pity but what they would try the experiment.
I j j Some few hundreds of the subscribers to Art Magic, who are as yet out-
j)i side of the lunatic asylum and likely to remain so, consider my friend’s
j (i work of such immense value that despite the stringent conditions he has
| j laid down for limiting its publication, they have informed me they are
In almost disposed to risk all consequences, and issue another edition, for
]{ that, in their opinion, this work sent broadcast over the world would
i) j do more to hinder many Spiritualists from acting as if they ought to be
ju in a lunatic asylum, than any publication of the age. To set Mr.
i 11 Rouse’s anxious mind at rest, let me state that the author of Art Magic
j)' is not only an accomplished magician himself, but a thorough “ adept ” in
| ! all the magical arts he describes, and yet some hundreds of people
nj almost as well informed as Mr. Rouse, deem what they term his “ mag-
|)I nificent work” a pretty good proof of his sanity. As to me, his humble
j j j follower, friend, and editor, although I have only seen, and learned, and
Hj practised, enough to be assured “ there are more things in heaven and
i | earth” than you, Mr. Rouse, dream of in your philosophy, I am
j(i still not quite mad enough to underrate the value of Art Magic
| \ | because it has not attained to the impossible discovery of something that
j)| Mr. Rouse does not know already. I can only say those who know
i everything that is in Art Magic had better set themselves seriously to
j work to apply their knowledge; they would then correct some of the
jlj idolatries to which my countrymen are addicted in their forms of
i (j worship ; they would improve their unscientific apprehensions of Spirit-
\)\ ualism by the new, clear, and scientific suggestions laid down in Art
j) | Magic, and they would certainly find their very narrow views of Spirit-
| ualism considerably enlarged by the author’s broad, reverend, and
I) | exalted ideas of spiritual existence throughout the universe. As a con-
|) I eluding piece of advice to your correspondent, Mr. Editor, permit me to
I \ | suggest that when he essays the office of a critic—(“ those butchers of
1| human character, whose chief delight is to exercise their carving knives
! upon the bodies of slain reputations, without regard to qualification for
| the act of dissection.” Vide author’s preface to Art Magic, page 8)—
he might take a valuable lesson in the art from one of the best, most
j philosophical, and highly informed writers of which our ranks can boast,
namely, “ M.A. (Oxon),’’ who, in his recent critique on Art Magic in
Human Nature, says—with all that modesty which belongs to true
• < i merit—“ I know my own ignorance of the subject too well to venture
\\\ on any theorising The book covers far too wide a surface for me
|)j to deal with it exhaustively, and I foresee that the author will anathe-
| - j matise me with all those arts in which he is such a proficient, for my
|{j ignorant and imperfect treatment of his book.” Again, this true gen-
j j tleman and learned scholar says—“ One says rudely, ‘It is a Yankee
sell; there is nothing new in it!’” “M.A. (Oxon),” goes on to say,
“ I can only say there is a great deal that I believe to be true—a great
deal that was new to me; a great deal, moreover, that I believe to be
very necessary for the world to know.” Not necessary, of course, for
critics who, having read it all through, can see nothing in it “ but a
mass of antiquated rubbish;” but necessary—0 most profound and
all accomplished student!—for poor ignoramuses like me; not wholly
despicable in the eyes of “ M.A. (Oxon),” and some four or five hundred
of the best informed Spiritualists of America—including the learned
linguist, scholar, writer, and traveller, Dr. G, L. Ditson, from whom I
am just now in receipt of his views of Art Magic, in which he con¬
cludes in these words—” Would that I had such a friend as its author!
I am profoundly moved by it; it throws light into the very depths of
nature; it opens new worlds of thought, and I feel Uke veiling my face
SPIRITUALIST.
33
Am. 13, 1876.
before its exalted views of the source of life, light, and beauty.” Pro¬
mising Mr. John Rouse another work from the pen of the author of
Art Magic on which to exercise his power of critical analysis and acumen
before the said author or I (still his editor) retire into that lunatic
asylum to which our studies ought to condemn us, I am, Mr. Editor,
yours faithfully, Emma Habdinge Britten.
118, West Chester Park, Boston, Mass., America.
SEANCES IN NEWCASTLE.
Sir,—By the advice of our spirit friends we have formed a select
circle, limited to ten, at the house of Mr. Petty, Suffolk-street, New¬
castle. The phenomena through the Pettys are of the most convincing
and startling nature. We took advantage of Newcastle race week, and
the consequent general holiday, to hold a pic-nic in the beautiful
grounds and garden of Mr. Armstrong, at Elswick, and, after enjoying
ourselves to the fullest extent, we returned and met at Mr. Petty’s,
where we had a stance for the materialisation of spirit forms. The
manifestations were truly wonderful. A visitor saw the spirit of his
wife, with her infant in her arms. I saw my wife and aged mother.
Let no man tell me I was a dupe, or that these were but hallucinations
of an unbalanced mind. Could I, who had known my dear mother, not
recognise her form, and that no ordinary one ? She was many stones
heavier and several inches taller than the medium, William Petty, aged
eighteen. I have had the good fortune to witness some grand physical
phenomena, but never such as of late.
On Friday night last we had a most successful stance. The cabinet
was just an iron rod, with curtain stretched from wall to wall, forming
the hypothenuse of a right-angled triangle. There was nothing in this
cabinet but a banjo, a bell, and a paper tube. The mediums were all
outside. Those present were Mrs. Petty, Wm. Petty, Joseph Petty,
W. S. Robertson, Mrs. W. S. Robertson—all mediums; further, there
were Mr. Petty, Mr. Lee, and myself. We sat for physical manifesta¬
tions in the light, and soon we heard the voice of John King, congratu¬
lating us on the harmony of our circle. A great deal depends on
harmony. Presently the banjo was played, the bell rung, and other
pleasing little things took place. After a recess of a quarter of an hour
we sat for materialisations, all of us outside the cabinet. After a short
time we could see the—may I call it<x the aura” P—collect on the floor,
near the middle opening of the curtains, and assume the dimensions of a
full-grown figure, very white, but wanting in definition. Suddenly Wm.
Petty was controlled, and took his chair into the cabinet. Then we had
the pleasure of seeing and hearing John King; so distinct were his
features that I should know him again were I to meet him; the light
was such that we could see the time by our watches. He showed him¬
self several times, and remained in sight for two or three minutes
together. He was asked to show his medium at the same time as him¬
self. He had done this on many occasions, and we thought it unneces¬
sary for him to do it again, as it was at the expense of power. However,
he showed his medium, with himself alongside, and remained in full
view for six or seven minutes, answering questions.
One afternoon the Pettys called at W. H. Lambelle’s, South Shields,
to tea. I arrived at Shields by the five o’clock train from Newcastle,
and we had a stance, at which several materialised spirits appeared.
Jos. Robertson.
Dunston, Gateshead.  
MORE ABOUT “ 8. J. SABEL.”
Sir,—In your issue of August 4th, a letter from G. Wiese, speaks
of a man named Sabel as having been present at “ several of my stances,
and also at one in which many others took part, when a light was
struck, and it was discovered that Mr. Home had deceived them, by
means of wires and other mechanical appliances.” I beg to state that
I never met a Mr. Sabel, and that the whole story is a groundless fabri¬
cation, and a most unmitigated falsehood. Such an incident never
occurred, either with Mr. Sabel or any one else. D. D. Home.
Olarens, Switzerland, August 8th, 1876.
FIRST STEFS IN SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—I once wrote you a letter describing my position as investigator,
after satisfying myself of the genuineness of various startling phenomena,
which had been ascertained to be “ facts,” and I now proceed to show
(for the benefit of brother inquirers) how I can reconcile evidences of
deception that have occasionally accompanied these phenomena, with a
belief that any portion is genuine. Further, I shall have to show
grounds for believing in spirit influence at all, after having, as I believe
to be the case, ascertained that the spirits themselves are in some cases
no more to be relied on than their mediums.
I have enumerated most of the usual physical manifestations, which I
have seen occur under convincing test conditions, so that I have no longer a
doubt as to the possibility of their genuineness, apart from all trickery
or deception. I have, however, found nearly all the same manifesta¬
tions produced by deception, often through the same mediums, and by
the spirits professing to be the same through whom genuine phenomena
have occurred, and in some cases deception has been mixed up with
truth (when test conditions have been relaxed) in a manner that has
seemed needless, and has been certainly bewildering on account of its
apparent objectlessness, for if (as an example) a genuine materialised
spirit hand can be shown during one part of a stance, why should the
hand of the medium be substituted at another time (during trance) to
produce the same effect, and yet this has been often observed by most
investigators who have got beyond their first sittings.
Sometimes the medium will, while unconscious or controlled, attempt
some absurd and palpable act of deception, which he could not be silly
enough to do in a normal state, and except the strictest conditions are
kept up, it is notorious that in any public or mixed stance, where the
mental conditions are not thoroughly harmonious, few manifestations
can be relied on as being the result of what is called u spirit power.”
It seems, therefore, that these spiritual gifts, whether on the part of
the medium, or the unseen intelligence acting through the medium, or
even direct and apparently without human agency, are by no means
necessarily of a high, truthful, and noble character, and that neither
those who prompt the communications from “ the other side,” nor those
who are made the medium of such communications on this side, are
always ennobled or elevated by such mysterious powers. And here, I
think, is the first great stumbling block and obstacle preventing Spirit¬
ualism at present from taking firm hold of the educated masses, and at
once occupying that grand position claimed for it by its apostles, and to
which it would be entitled if no such obstacles to the reception of its
truths as I have pointed out existed. Though disappointed, however,
at the human fallibility exhibited by the teachers of Spiritualism, I am
not so utterly dismayed as to lose all hope in the prospect of finding
“ light,” and think I have a glimmer already in satisfying myself that a
most unmistakably genuine unseen intelligent force exists outside our own
senses, and that it can be communicated with, and can communicate with
us, independently of our own wishes or thoughts. This is the first true
step in spiritual knowledge, and is worth all the trouble and doubts that
can possibly have been expended in learning it. From the vantage
ground thus gained we can calmly look both backwards and forwards,
so as to try to see what we have left, what acquired, and what we can
discover opening before us. In a few words, we have left some rather
dense bits of ignorance and bigotry behind us; have arrived at the point
of admitting that we do not know all the laws that can operate on
matter; and that what our blind and scientific ignorance pronounces to
be impossible, is nevertheless an actual fact of daily occurrence. Having
thus gained one first glimpse of knowledge of the “ impossible ” it
behoves us to open our minds as well as our eyes, and try another
“ child’s ” step towards possibly discovering a little more of what our
wise men say cannot be, simply because they have not found it out, but
which we know is, and must be, because we have found it to be!
As regards the prospects opened up, these will depend greatly upon
individual capacity to receive a new kind of knowledge, which may be
found to conflict very much with old teachings and prejudices. As,
however, nothing but facts, well vouched for and proved, ought to be
acknowledged, I do not see anything to alarm the inquirer in such
further pursuit of knowledge, and the chief point we have now to address
ourselves to discover (after admitting the truth of some superhuman
intelligent force) is the origin and capabilities of the new element.
That it is of a “ spiritual” nature, according to our ordinary meaning
of the term, no one can deny, as intelligent effects are produced without
any visible means; but must it necessarily follow that our departed
friends, or brethren from the human race, are the immediate or even
suggestive actors in these new phenomena ? This, I think, is the great
problem to be solved, and more light is required on this point than I at
present possess to enable me to offer any conclusive proof in an affirm¬
ative sense. I see nothing, however, to interfere with such a belief,
except our ordinary, and, I think, very irrational ideas, on the subject of
the other life. We hold that after death some great change occurs in
the spirit or soul, either of an eminently elevating or unspeakably lower¬
ing tendency: in other words, that we immediately enter heaven or hell,
and we are consequently surprised that our departed relatives or friends
should professedly communicate with us in a tone not directly indica¬
tive of either condition, but generally partaking very much of the
frivolous nature of this life, or perhaps even showing a slightly inferior
mental plane from that we had been accustomed to accord them in our
earthly appreciation.
I see, however, no incongruity in the possibility of these peculiarities
tending rather to prove, than to disprove, the reality of such intercourse
with our friends departed. Why should there be a sudden exaltation
of the spiritual (mental) nature of an ordinary (and perhaps very
ordinary) human being, merely because he or she has slipped off this
mortal coil? We are told “as the tree falls, so shall it lie,” and the
very foundation of Spiritualism, and natural religion, is that “ we must
reap as we sow.” What right have we, therefore, to suppose that our
ordinary humanity (in its mental phase) shall appear in an extra¬
ordinary disguise immediately it has become a spiritual body? It
appears to me that identity would be much more difficult if such a change
did occur, and it can be no logical proof of failure of identity because
our friends profess to communicate in very much the same style as they
were accustomed to use in their earthly life.
While, however, I fail to see the force or reason of the objections
generally urged against the genuineness of spirit communications because
they are not of the transcendent character expected (unreasonably, I
think), I am not prepared ofthand to admit their truthfulness, but main¬
tain that we must still search and watch, not blindly ignoring evidence
when we can obtain it, nor yet stupidly shutting our eyes and minds to
the reception of truth, merely because it does not reach our self-erected
standard of excellence.
The mere fact, now sufficiently proved, that there is a world of power¬
ful intelligences around and about us with capacity to communicate, is
a grand discovery, and instead of provoking hostile criticism and obstruc¬
tive efforts from men who claim to be philosophers and scientists, the
discovery ought to enlist their greatest sympathy and energies to further
develops the new-born science, before the importance of which nothing
that has ever yet been discovered can for a moment stand in interest to
the human race, and I only regret that it is left to the few and feeble to
search out the great truths that must lie hidden under this new force
and intelligence, whatever name it may be called by or disguised under.
W. H.
THE CONTROVERSY ON REINCARNATION.
Sib,—I read in the Spiritual Magazine for August a review by Baron
Dirckinck-Holmfeld of the prize essay written by Miss Anna Blackwell,
and I appeal to any impartial Spiritualist to say whether this review
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 18, 1876.
does not call for more criticism than an essay which has been awarded
a prize.
Not having yet read the Prize Essay, I do not know how much of it
is occupied with the subject of reincarnation; but from the Baron’s
criticism one would be disposed to think that it treats of little else.
The reviewer states that he was as surprised to see that Miss Blackwell
had gained the prize as he would have been had a blind person gained it
for the best treatise on the progress of pictorial art. This is the kind of
argument this writer has made use of all along. Is it not substituting
foregone conclusions for impartial reasoning on such a subject? This
piece of sentiment is followed by an irrelevant disquisition on the dis¬
qualifications of the female mind. In the enumeration of these dis¬
qualifications the Baron shows a great want of appreciation of the great
change on this subject that has taken place in modern thought, and
appears, as may perhaps he thought natural on his part, to fail to per¬
ceive the superiority of mind of Miss Anna Blackwell.
Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld not only authoritatively condemns rein¬
carnation, without vouchsafing any arguments or reasons for doing so,
hut pits the whole of his mental strength (also in the shape of senti¬
ment) against such scientific minds as Darwin, H. Spencer, Hceckel,
Tyndall, Huxley, and the host of scientific evolutionists, for he hesitates
not to condemn the modern results of scientific research, and “ un¬
conditionally rejects these would-be fundamental pillars of modern
science.”
One cannot help feeling surprised that a man who condemns the
philosophy of reincarnation and the allied scientific doctrine of evolu¬
tion all in one breath, does not found a school of philosophy and science
of his own, assisted possibly by the tenants of the <l temple of intelli¬
gence,” and “spiritual truth and wisdom,” some of whose names I
suppose are “Kibosh,” “Annie,” and the spiritual dictators of the
eminently philosophical work, “ Angelic Revelations,” et hoc genus
omne.
The writer of the review “ was the first to discover that reincarnation
was artfully insinuated by Jesuitism to combat Spiritualism on its own
ground ”—a discovery which, being entirely false, is not exactly akin to
the discovery of gunpowder, and it is charitably to be hoped that this is
not the only discovery the writer has made.
The writer, therefore, shows the breadth of his conceptions—
1. By misappreciating the mind of a writer whose essay, among other
competing productions, has been awarded a prize, notwithstanding a
strong sentiment still existing in England against a doctrine enunciated
in it.
2. By making a discovery which has no foundation whatsoever in
fact.
3. By misappreciating the great change that has taken place in
modem civilized thought with regard to the disqualifications of the female
mind, emphatically pronouncing for these disqualifications in the course
of the review.
4. By expressing his sentiment only against the belief in reincarna¬
tion—and what will be considered hastier by many persons ?—express¬
ing it likewise against the most brilliant results of science-evolution
(Vide Hoeckel’s History of Creation).
5. By occupying over eleven pages in a magazine with sentiment
instead of reason.
" Reincarnationists could well afford to offer a heavy premium to any
one who could discover in any of Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld’s writings
a genuine argument, not tinged with sentiment, against the doctrine of
reincarnation professed generally on the Continent, also to a great extent
in North and South America, and rapidly gaining ground in England.
B. P. J.
Sir,—Mr. M. A. Cantab has in The Spiritualist of June 30 (p. 309),
tried to invalidate some of my remarks in your paper about the reincar¬
nation theory. Allow me a few lines to answer him. I especially wish
to prevent his singular misconception (in the final part of his article)
from entering into the minds of your readers. In a few lines I had
stated my opinion that the Brahminical theory of transmigration was
merely a crude sensuous perversion of a primitive true doctrine, accord¬
ing to which evil-doers, after leaving the natural world, would, in a
spiritual future, or in hell, be left to the animal propensities of their ill-
used self-hood, expressing the particular quality of their lusts. When
looked at in a superior light, they might even show themselves in animal
forms, corresponding to their interior passions, though they might,
among themselves, externally appear in a human shape, perhaps more
or less distorted. By the example of Mr. Cantab we see how easily
such a true doctrine could, in the interest of the corrupted system of
priestly rule, be falsely interpreted as teaching the transmigration of
souls into terrestrial animals.
Truth teaches that man, as to his “ proprium ” or self-love, if left to
his own nature, is nothingness, darkness, cold, and only divinely ani¬
mated when in his mental organisation he receives life, light, and love
exclusively from God through the spiritual world.
The animal kingdom represents the various forms of selfhood, both in
its natural state and when spiritualised. As far as man follows an
egotistical path, rejecting regeneration or the free control of his animal
nature, he is left to his proper will, or to his animal cupidities of
self-hood.
Buddha, or the mythical, traditional personification of reason, tried
to restore true religion, and to reform the Hindoo perversion. Though
the faith in divinity and immortality never was totally extinguished,
the Lamas, or priests, succeeded in their revival of materialistic cor¬
ruption. Their transmigration theory prevails even now in Africa. It
is no wonder that the corruption reappeared in mere external Christi¬
anity when its internal principles perished. So it did in French, or
rather Rivails, reincarnation. The Jesuits succeeded in turning ob¬
noxious Spiritualism into an absurdity, which might be made to favour
their system of domination by superstition. Mr. Cantab ought to read a
I /j passage in Addison’s Spectator, p. 408, quoted by Mr. Gorman in his
(| admirable Christian Psychology, p. 440. He would then learn how a
jjj sound British rationalist, nearly two centuries ago, looked on the
j |j theories which since have made such an inroad into science and among
I (| mankind generally.
|{| If the reincarnationists venture to object that the old transmigration
m doctrine teaches that men become animals, while the evolutionists con-
| j trarywise suppose animals to become men, and that their sublime rein-
!;j carnation makes even adult men to be re-born as natural infants, I
answer that evolution in a life of liberty of necessity involves the possi-
i (j bility of descending into animals just as well as of ascending. Reincar-
i| nation is nothing but continued evolution, essentially founded on ma-
| ■ terialism, which identifies and compounds spiritual action and phenomena
j(j with self-acting matter, making them altogether natural. It upsets
j j divine order, by making what is superior subservient to what ought to
i |! be subordinate.
j (I It is useless to enter into a discussion with Mr. Cantab about the
} ?! falsity of his arguments for believing in successive reappearances of the
| (i same individual on the same natural platform, to be compatible with our
; 11 rational Christian notions of personal immortality and real moral re-
i|j sponsibility. His conclusions are fixed, admitting of no controversy.
| ( Everybody else can easily see that such belief is merely a supposition,
| i! founded neither on externally discernible facts, nor on reason, nor on a
I j revealed Divine Word, which teaches a directly opposite doctrine of un-
j j avoidable judgment after death. This contradiction by revelation is
| j why Christianity is not admitted by reincarnationists, or only in a dis-
| n torted form of superstitious perversion.
j ( Ask the millions of living men whether any one of them knows of
] j ever having been another person, and he will answer, “No.” Ask the
j j billions of conscious spirits, if you are able to do so, and they will deny
i j such a fact, except you meet one of the Kakodemons who rejoice in
j I leading people astray, and who, as Miss Blackwell pertinently has it,
j H “ are only the reflex of the perversity of the medium.’* In this she is
j || right, just as in some other few remarks, which display her truly
j )j feminine aspirations. But we meet among reincamaiionists everywhere
| \ j imaginary doctrines, which, as Mr. Gorman rightly says about the
i|| theories of the Huxleys, Wallaces, Darwins, Maudsleys, and other
111 naturalists, “ are ingeniously, but perversely interwoven with a number
||| of dogmatic assertions, destitute alike of scientific value, common sense,
! 11 and refined feeling.”
| i Mr. Cantab says that not only in dreams, but by intuition when
Mi awake, an intimation of an interior state has been experienced. It is
always Pythagoras who is alleged as having fancied himself to have
|)| been in the Trojan war. We know how easily he may have been in the
| (j state, if the report is true, in which he could believe himself to be the
|) spirit who had manifested to him, perhaps only in a dream; nay, he may
j | have been obsessed by such a spirit. The article of Mr. T. Robinson,
I ( following upon that of Mr. Cantab, explains fully such a state of obses-
II sion. I thank this gentleman for having presented to the public the
j ( antidote to the reincarnation poison, even in the same cup. I fully believe
j ( that the reincarnationists interiorly are the prey of such obsessing,
| false spirits, and in that state their persuasions are scarcely to be
I shaken. But what we can do is to warn Spiritualists that they may
j keep aloof from the labyrinthical mazes. C. Dirckinck-Holmfeld. j
| Pinneberg, Holstein.
Mj THE EDUCATION OF THE CHILDREN OF SPIRITUALISTS.
i|| Sir,—My theory is that, till a certain' age (say ten years old, for the
j |i sake of compromising the affair), the children of the rich and the poor
| | should be brought up together in class and on the same principles. I
jjj know people will shout when they read this, and imagine I must be a
II dangerous demagogue-ess; but, perhaps, when they have read how I
! J propose to train all children, they will be pacified.
j (j In the first place, I start by proposing that there should be a creche
j | j in every street. If there are two or three public-houses, why should
!)! there not be as many creches 7 According to people’s incomes, they
I (| should be made to pay towards the support of the creches. The chil-
III dren should be fetched in the morning, and taken home at night; they
|) j should all, while at school, be dressed in the same uniform; they
jjj should all be thoroughly washed and cleaned, and taught, as early as
|) possible, to do all washing, cleaning, and dressing of each other and of
j)! themselves.
j j i Little beds should be laid all round the room, for babies almost from
j j | the birth, and for children as old as four years. Some children con-
i (I tinue to want to sleep much later than others; some are more inatten-
jl tive and fidgety than others. Instead of reprimand or punishment,
!) | the most diplomatic thing to do is to treat the sleepy and the inatten-
j | j tive children alike, and to send them to bed from eleven a.m. till one p.m.
j | j daily. If there were fifty children in one creche, besides the head
j (j nurse or teacher, there should be an attendant to every fourth or fifth
j | j child. There’s the fetching of the children, the cooking, the cleaning,
j | j the babies to look after, the washing; and then there’s the watching of
j / i and the attending to the children in class during lessons. The head
j (j teacher should not be interrupted by being obliged to make a remark to
II i a child for inattention oftener than can be helped. The overlooking of
j / i the clothes would be another part of these ten attendants’ work. The
j (j uniform dresses would naturally be made by them; they might as well
j | j see to the children’s own clothes,—a tape or a button is often wanting.
j) I and it is not much, while they are about it, to encourage the tidiest
j (j mothers in their work by helping them and showing interest in their
j | j children.
j) j The babies are soon taught to leave off squalling, unless they are ill,
jjj A separate room might be easily added to the creche for sick children,
j;j and thus housewives’duties might be considerably lightened. A great
jjj deal of work gets badly done, because it is more than it is possible for
j j | one person to get through. It is very evident that it is impossible, as a
rule, to get decent servants. All they think of is eating and getting
dressed by four o’clock in the afternoon, going out as often and staying
out as late as possible. My system of education would save us from
our dependence upon servants. If the mistress of the house likes
household occupations, and is wise enough to head the work of dusting,
cleaning, cooking, &c., she naturally has her nose everywhere, is sharp
with the servants, who, after all, are obliged to listen to her and to be
kept in order by her. Servants end by liking to be disciplined, and take
more interest in their work as they get taught to go through their day
systematically. They prefer a mistress who spends her day among
them; they grow to prefer cleanliness to dirt, order to disorder, manage¬
ment to no management at all, and end by almost forgetting to be
dainty and lazy. Some ladies may think that, having once drilled the
servants into this most enviable state, they may safely indulge in other
occupations. Cruel deception. However good, however honourable,
however Christian the occupations of the “ missus,” the servants gra¬
dually slip back into their old habits of uneducated slovenliness, dirt,
and greediness ; they get dressed as soon as they can, they spend their
money on their dress as fast as they can, they slip out as often as they
can, they stay out as late as they can, and scamp all their work. They
do not care for their mistress’s nagging, unless she can be at it from
morning till night. Her intellectual and educated pursuits prevent
this; and all I can say (from experience) is, that if a mistress does not
look after her house herself, no one else will, unless another educated
lady will do so, devoting herself for the sake of the superior or intellec¬
tual pursuit or accomplishment the mistress of the house should be
engaged in. Georgina Weldon.
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, W.
EXTRAORDINARY SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA IN THE LIGHT.
Sir,—Dr. Monck has been holding light seances in Derby and sur¬
rounding localities almost daily [for the past seven weeks, and, as I have
had the pleasure of attending over forty of them, I write to offer your
readers just a glimpse of my never-to-be-forgotten experiences with this
remarkable medium.
Allow me to commence by stating: 1. That Dr. Monck has at all
these stances sat in the light—sometimes gaslight, at others broad day¬
light, but always in a good clear light. 2. He sits with one side of his
body towards the table, with one hand and arm on it, while the other
hand and arm are placed on the top of his chair back, and his legs and
feet not under the table, but outside in the open (the same as his hands),
in full view of all the sitters throughout the seance, during which he
remains perfectly passive and motionless. 3. Being constantly on the
move through the country, he, as a rule, has no rooms of his own for
stances, and therefore holds them in rooms provided by those who
engage him. He has always done so during my now extensive experi¬
ence of his mediumship, and I find that his willingness to do this
produces a most favourable impression on sceptics. 4. At the forty odd
siunces I have attended he has invariably manifested great readiness to
permit the application of the most stringent tests and rigorous investi¬
gation desired by investigators. 5. The phenomena at each of these
seances have not only been wonderfully varied, definite, and convincing
to large numbers of absolute sceptics attending them, but have likewise
been always promptly evolved, thus enabling me to say that at Dr.
Monck’s seances “ a wealth of the most astounding phenomena are to
be depended on as certain, notwithstanding any amount of what are
generally termed ill-conditions, such as the sceptical element present in
strong force, the state of the weather,” &c.
I think these facts should be known to the intelligent readers of The
Spiritualist as I gather from recent reports and letters therein that a
general impression prevails that “ there is no native English medium
who can secure pronounced phenomena in the light with any degree of
certainty under unfavourable conditions.’’ I will now, as briefly as
possible, glance at the phenomena I and my friends witnessed last night
at Mr. Ford’s, 27, Uttoxeter New-road, Derby. The medium sat, as I
have described, at one side of the table, the rest of us at two other sides,
while opposite the fourth unoccupied side, and five feet from it, an empty
chair was placed. The two gas jets were, at the medium’s request,
turned on at the full. As soon as we sat down the chair ran up to
the table a distance of five feet. Each of us now rose, closely
examined the chair, and thoroughly satisfied ourselves that its movement
was entirely and absolutely independent of any act of the medium’s.
The chair now repeatedly moved backwards and forwards several feet,
was suspended at a height of two feet from the floor, then turned upside
down so that the legs were uppermost, and it then floated on to the
middle of the table and off again several times. Two chairs were simi¬
larly moved up to the table from a like distance, one of them rose and
hooked its back on to the back of the other, and both then rushed
rapidly about in an open space of six feet by four for several minutes
without being disconnected. They then separated, and one went under
the table, and, by request, placed a leg in the hand of each of us, and
perfectly imitated the act of shaking hands.
Direct writing on a slate held under the table is common at the
doctor’s sSances} I need, therefore, only describe the following instance,
which appears to me by far more wonderful. I deposited my pencil and
a piece of paper on the table, and while the doctor leaned back in his
chair, so as not to be in contact with the table, and held his hands above
his head, we all saw the pencil rise and write a lengthy message on the
paper. This has occurred several times, and I have preserved the
papers. "We also had writing given under the test conditions suggested
by Dr. Wyld in last week’s Spiritualist. We signed our names on a
sheet of blank paper, which we nailed up in a box, tied the box up with
tape, knotted the crossings, and sealed the ends. In a few minutes we
opened the box, and found a long written communication on the paper.
Of course a pencil had been placed in the box. These are but a few of
the many equally astounding marvels that occur with unfailing certainty
at each of Dr. Monok’s stances, G. H. Adshead.
Derby.
OPEN AIR SERVICES IN LEICESTER.
Sir,—Sunday, the 30th of August, was what you may term a red
letter day with the Spiritualists of Leicester, and will not soon be for¬
gotten, for we then made our first attempt at holding open air services,
and with decided success. We had arranged previously to hold a pic-nic
party in the vicinity of Woodhouse Eaves, a delightful spot, displaying
the grand handiwork of nature and nature’s God. Sunday morning
came with as bright prospects of a fine day as we could possibly have
expected, the sun pouring forth its rays overhead, and a nice sharp wind
blowing as if to subdue the heat. At half-past eight the company began
to make their appearance; all appeared to have put on their best faces,
j so as not to be behind with the weather, and we were in exuberant
! spirits. At nine o’clock we started. Our drive lay through some of the
| finest scenery of which Leicestershire can boast. On our way we called
| at Quorndon to greet a spiritual friend. Arrived at Woodhouse Eaves,
! we put up our horses, and began to think about the inner man. Then
| we had a ramble over the rocks and among the ferns for about three-
quarters of an hour, and returned to the service. Our Quorndon friend
| was voted to the chair. We had an address from one of our controls
| on vegetarianism; but some of us think that vegetarianism will not
| suit everybody. After the address our chairman gave us a lecture, in
I the course of which he made quotations from the Scriptures, showing
| the relationship of the greater part of the Bible to Spiritualism. The
| afternoon service was not so much of a success as the evening, although
j we got on very well considering it was our first attempt at open air con¬
trolling of trance mediums. At the evening service many strangers
I, were present, and fine addresses were given on the fact of a future
| ( existence, and of the possibility of the spirits’ return to the sphere in
!| which it had spent its days in the body. We concluded the service
( by singing the doxology. The company seemed well satisfied,
j . Should any mediums be passing through Leicester at any time, we
) shall be very happy to see them at our rooms in Silver-street on Sunday
( mornings at 10.30, evenings at 6.30 ; Thursday evenings at 8.30. I
I hope the time is not very far distant when we shall be able to send you
accounts of meetings more valuable than this one j but this one is not
| to be laughed at, as it is a step in advance.
' i W. J. Cattell, Secretary.
;! 155, Syston-street, Leicester, Aug. 9th, 1876.
i1
I HOW DO SPIRITS CONVERSE?
Sir,—Referring to The Spiritualist of July 21st I find some quota¬
tions from Swedenborg, wherein he says that “ the speech of a spirit
flows first into the man’s thought, and by an internal way into his organ
of hearing, and thus moves that from within,” by what we should term
a reflex action. Hence the sound of the voice from the organ of sound
or sonorous body, just as a drum might be struck from without or from
within, and the same sound be produced. But in another extract
referring to spirits out of the body, he says, “The spirits then come into
their veriest sensitive life, and can speak and hear.” Then why should
not the spirit within the body hear the spirit outside, without the inter¬
vention of the material organ ? I knew a somnambulist, the cousin of
! Thackeray, who used to hear beautiful music, just as in our dreams we
have wonderfully distinct visions ; so that we have three kinds of per¬
ception: 1. In the ordinary way; 2. By the action of a spirit, and
3. As originating from the mind itself. In the last case it may equally
be a reflex action from the organ of the sense in an inverse way. But
in any case it is the spirit or inner self that hears or perceives, since the
perceiving or hearing must be inseparable from that which hears and
perceives, though by an illusion it is referred to the organ of sense or to
I an external and objective source. The voice of the spirit is heard ; one
| would like to know whether it seems to come from some being at a
distance, as in the ordinary case of hearing a person speak, or the
I thunder heard as if it were really in the distant clouds.
| I should think that a spirit might inspire a whole company at once if
| all were sufficiently sensitive—just as with Goethe’s grandfather, who
inspired all present with the same clairvoyance as himself. I do not
| think we can define a limit to a power of this nature, but each would
| hear a separate voice, just as with our ordinary perceptions; and no one
can be aware of the hearing or thing perceived by another, though we
may recognise a common source to all our different impressions, in
! respect to any sound or object. Each percipient having a different im-
I pression from a common source was the great objection to Berkeley’s
| system, and which was not got over by referring all to a supernatural
cause—all agreeing that they saw the same object, as in looking at St.
j Paul, for instance. God might influence all alike, as a spirit might, but
] then the objective fact, common to all, would not be St. Paul, but God.
And we should indeed be “of such stuff as dreams are made of.”
| “ Yea, all which it inherit shall dissolve, and, like this insubstantial
pageant faded, leave not a rack behind.” The whole world, and even
j the percipients themselves, “melted into air—into thin air.” Such-like
i is the dream of the consistent idealist—only we never do find them
I consistent. Henry G. Atkinson, F.G.S.
Boulogne. • ' ■
A SEANCE WITH DR. SLADE.
Sir,—I have just returned from a visit to Dr. Slade. In addition to
| phenomena similar to those recorded by Serjeant Cox in your last issue,
I I was favoured with the following crucial test.
i I had provided myself with two small slates—bound with wood, and
closely fitting the one on the other—and a piece of ordinary slate pencil.
On my requesting that a message might be written on my own slates,
Dr. Slade immediately assented, and, biting a small piece (the size of a
i small pea) off my pencil, he inserted it between the slates, and with one
hand (visible all the time) he held the slates under the table between us,
| his other hand resting upon my hands on the table. In about a minute
writing was distinctly audible, and on removing the upper slate some
Auct, 18, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
35
36
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 18, 1876.
illegible scrawl was found on the lower slate. On repeating this experi*
ment, the following message was found written on the upper side of the
lower slate:—
“Is this any better?”
Through an inadvertence this message was washed off—instead of the
illegible sentence. This led me to request that another message should
be written, which I might carry away with me. The pencil was again
inserted, and the slates, instead of being placed under were put upon
the table directly in front of me. Dr. Slade then placed his left hand
over my two hands on the table, and the tips of the fingers of his right
hand on the top of the slates immediately before me on the table. All
this was, of course, plainly visible in broad daylight. Under these con¬
ditions writing was soon heard, and on the lower side of the upper slate
was found plainly written
“ Let this be proof.”
W. W. Clark.
Dorking, August 15th, 1876.
EXPERIENCES OF AN INQUIRER.
Sir,—I read Mr. Blackburn’s letter containing the account of his
and Miss Blackburn’s seance at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, with much
pleasure, and I quite agree with his concluding remark, viz., that
Every right-minded man (may I be allowed to add “ woman ” also ?)
should investigate such strange and most wonderful phenomena as now
present themselves in all parts of the world.” Surely a movement that
is spreading and progressing so rapidly must be sent of God for some
wise purpose, which many of us are not yet able to understand.
“ Truth is stranger than fiction.” Some weeks ago a cousin of mine
from Dublin came on a visit here, and several of his private friends
who are not Spiritualists, along with himself, formed a circle, and ob¬
tained very good manifestations; he therefore felt anxious to investigate
during his visit. I accompanied him to three seances, and the last was
with Mr. Williams. On that evening John King floated about the room,
going twice near the ceiling. He asked the gentleman who was sitting
next to me if he observed his lamp, also if he would like to touch it;
this he then did. He next came opposite to me—when I thought I
would embrace the first opportunity I ever had of conversing with what
appeared to me to be a materialised spirit form, unless my eyes de¬
ceived me considerably, and I assure you I made good use of them on
that occasion, thinking I would endeavour to detect anything that
looked the least suspicious. I said, “ I have frequently heard, read,
and talked about you, John King.” He at once replied in a very loud,
deep voice, “You see me now.” And, truly, it was a beautiful sight.
Although the first two seances I attended were very good, I could not
help feeling a little sceptical, and thought that the materialised form
resembled the medium. My cousin thought differently, and on reflection
I felt convinced that it could not possibly have been the medium. I
attended another seance the previous evening, when Mr. Bullock was
securely tied in a bag, and his hands were tightly fastened behind him.
When in this position he asked for a ring, and one was produced by
Captain James, who was present. It was an ordinary curtain ring. On
the bag being removed the ring was found tightly encircled round the
wrist of the medium. This ring was examined by all present. On
the second evening it still remained, and was perfectly tight. Mr.
Bullock’s materialisations were in the light, which I consider a great
advantage.
In conclusion, I beg to say that I am an investigator, deeply interested,
at the same time I regret extremely the frivolity usually manifesting or
presenting itself at seances; but really people, as a rule, are drawn by
the ridiculous, and the greatest absurdities seem to “ take ” the most.
To my mind, what is called modern Spiritualism, is strictly in accord¬
ance with Scripture, as so very ably and plainly shewn by Mr.
Theobald. I strongly advise all who are able, to read The Spiritualist
of June the 14th. I believe that the physical manifestations are sent
to show the power of spirit over matter; in fact, to teach us that matter
is comparatively nothing and spirit everything, and to lead and prepare
us for far more profitable revelations which are ready to present them¬
selves to those who seek in an humble and inquiring spirit.
In the course of our seance with Mr. Williams, the spirit “ Peter ”
would persist in saying he wanted us to sing “Twinkle, twinkle little
star,” and he immediately filled the room with most beautiful luminous
stars.
I could say much more about my short experiences. People seem to
forget that we live in a world of progress, consequently they look with
great suspicion upon every thing new. Things that have eventually
turned out the greatest temporal blessings to mankind have been thus
received by them in the first instance. Certainly progression in a
spiritual direction must be the right one. We greatly need spiritualising
to counteract the evil influence of this materialistic age, and, as I have
before remarked, I believe the present to be simply a preparation for
other phases of spirit power, of a higher and far more elevating nature.
I have frequently read in the spiritualistic papers most gratifying
letters, written by working-men, explaining how they have been led by
Spiritualism to take a deep interest in religion, and thereby entered the
right path, when strict orthodoxy, as taught in many churches, failed
to influence them. “ A tree is known by its fruit.” Marianne.
Kensington, August 1st, 1876.
SPIRITUALISM AND INVESTIGATORS.
Sir,—The letter you publish in this week’s Spiritualist from Mr.
Massey suggests to me the propriety of writing a few interrogatory
remarks, with the request that you will kindly publish them. Mr.
Massey speaks somewhat slightingly of the “fourth estate,” and sug¬
gests that newspaper editors are scarcely worth convincing. I think
the contrary. Has Mr. Massey not frequently come across puffing
paragraphs about conjurors and illusionists 1 Does he think that such
| “ items of news ” would be deliberately passed for publication if the
( editors of the papers in which they appear knew the paragraphs were
> entirely misleading ? Do not ridicule and satire do more harm and
( more retard the progress of anything than honest discussion ? Have
I not newspaper editors in the provinces always deemed Spiritualism
| fair game for their feeble jokes ? Does one journalist in five hundred
( know anything of Spiritualism 1 I think if these questions are fairly
I answered, one duty will be pretty clear as the duty of the leaders of
| Spiritualism—to give the editors of our local press the opportunity of
( learning something of the “ facts,” leaving them to form their own
i theories. Some few have been attracted by the novelty of the so-
) called “ phenomena ” to investigate, among them the writer. But it is
( very expensive ; and I will honestly say that my pocket will not allow
II me to engage professional mediums, nor to seek for those facts which
} i Spiritualists declare are the convining proofs which shall change public
(I opinion from “against ” to “ with 1 them. If the National Association
11 of Spiritualists, or some kindred society, were to organise special
|! circles for investigators, and supply test mediums in our large pro-
(| vincial towns, inviting the editors of the provincial newspapers to see
11 for themselves, they might depend upon honest reports of what might
) I be seen or noted, which would perhaps make people think differently
(] of the new faith. To a certain extent I have inquired, and am puzzled ;
ji but prudential reasons (trade is bad) prevent me going further. Yet,
(| I may suggest, without claiming for the honourable class to which I
(! belong more power and influence than it possesses—that the conversion
>| to Spiritualism of one newspaper editor is not to be made light of.
(] Scientists would not hold aloof if once, through the press, Spiritualism
(| became fashionable. I enclose my card, and am truly yours,
| A Newspaper Editor.
I Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan has been delivering lectures in New York
| during the past three weeks, and is engaged there until the end of
I this month.
| At the meeting of the Newcastle Society of Spiritualists last
| Sunday evening, Mr. J. T. Rhodes read Mr. G. T. Green’s Essay on
“ The Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon Society,” Mr. Hare pre-
] . sided. On the same occasion Mr. H. A. Kersey read Mr. Serjeant
j Cox’s account of his seance with Dr. Slade.
j Novel Inventions.—The Times correspondent, reviewing the Phila-
| delphia Exhibition, speaking of the Patent Office, says—“ One genius
| is said to have wanted a patent for a machine to bore through the
| earth ; another for an apparatus to make spirits of the rapping kind
visible to mortal eyes.” Should this patent be a success, we may not
| want a Fakir after all to illustrate the marvels of occultism.
Mr. Blake, of Grainger-street, Newcastle, has on hand two spe¬
cimens of the photographs taken at the recent picnic near that town.
One which may be termed tj^e “ committee group ” is excellent, and
contains the portraits of Miss Fairlamb, Mrs. Fairlamb, Mrs. Petty,
| Mr. J. J. Morse, Mr. Armstrong, sen., the Misses Nicholls, Mr. D.
Richmond, of Darlington, and most of the active workers in Spiritual-
i ism at the present time in Newcastle and district, so it may be inter¬
esting to Spiritualists at a distance. The other one contains a general
group ; the faces are smaller and in many instances are not so good,
but this picture is more interesting to local workers in the movement.
Chinese Ghost Stories.—Animals, also, have their ghosts. A
resident at Canton, named Ling, had a very intelligent monkey, which,
(I having been severely whipped for some mischief, became sulky, refused
> I food, and died. Shortly after, the monkey’s ghost began to haunt the
\ | house. Food placed on the table mysteriously disappeared, and strange
| annoyances took place. At length a fire broke out in the house unac-
I countably, and Mr. Ling shifted his residence. But the monkey’s ghost
f 1 still followed and persecuted him, until, as a last resource, he took a
(| room in the Temple of the Five Hundred Worthies. The monkey ghost
I did not dare to face the gods, and left him in peace. Mr. Ling was still
(| residing in the temple last year.—JReligio-Philosophical Journal.
)j To Heaven and Back.—One of the most unusual circumstances
C; was witnessed in this town one day during the week, and has caused
v! no little amount of conversation and surprise. A lady who had been
) | suffering for some days in bed, and was expected to breathe her last
j I every moment, was being watched by a number of kind friends and
)j some members of her family. On Tuesday morning she seemed to
|| grow very feeble, and between 7 and 8 o’clock stretched her limbs
([ out to their full extent, and gave a sigh. It was generally thought
> j that she was dead, and the woman who was to lay her out was sent
11 for. In the meantime an attempt was made to take the rings off her
\ ] fingers, which was done at a request made by herself on a previous
) | occasion. Some trouble was experienced in removing one of the rings,
(j and the second one could not be got over the knuckle joint. During
V i all this time there was not the slightest sign of breathing nor pulsa-
j tion—in fact one of the nurses present, who had many years’ex-
!j perience, had no doubt about her being dead. After a further lapse of
| time the poor woman opened her eyes—her limbs still remaining motion¬
less. She gave a heavy sigh, and exclaimed, “ What, on earth again ? ’’
Some of them said, “ Yes, we are all here.” She then told them of a
I number 'of things she had seen, in a strong distinct tone of voice.
She said that she had been to heaven, and had seen some magnificent
i things. Had spoken to some of the angels, who had told her that
j earth was ordained for people to remain on for a short time only,
j She had seen the Lord, who was arrayed in great splendour, and had
also seen a number of persons whom she-had met on earth. The
description given by her was certainly a most extraordinary one, and
! she seemed to wish her time would come, so that she might return to
I the place where she thought she had been to. She was for a con-
i j siderable time in this state, and when she awoke all those who were in
j j the room were completely surprised.—Burragong Chronicle (Aus-
W tralia).
Augl 18, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News*
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
Locdon, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit*
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
ether.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEAROHESIN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
BLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
l . for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Yol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Jjaw. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
. unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre-
■ viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to than in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion ; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuraiism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatoiogy; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens’ these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ’’ was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be estabiished, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 21s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a'trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that ail spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his lift on earth. Best edition, gilt, IQs, cd,; cheap edition,
7s. fid.. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediuraship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. -
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
TBrE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAV EN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d. _
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Seville, M. A 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ol Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BV ANDREW JACKSON DA.VIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . .
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonla
" ’ .. H. „ • •
„nr. . .
„ iv. „ . ,
.   „ v. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .
Death and the After-Life . .
History and Philosophy of Evil . . •
Harbinger of Health . . . . ,
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age .
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) .
Philosophy of Special Providence | . .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . .
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims > . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
16 0
7 6
; 7 6
, 7 6
; 7 e
. 7 6
. 7
8 0
7 6
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragenvmt of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. Od.) 4s..
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . ', . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism .14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialismsi(Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) , . , . 12 0
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 0
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 10 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge.D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A . 10 8
Awas-I-Hind,’; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .20
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . • 12 6
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B. A . . ,30
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . , 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed,
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A8.
Special edition for Schools . , • . 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton: 3. Miss Lizzi
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The lato
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. ConaHt.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative cf
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas E.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman ol Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE .OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought." 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. Cd.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevier. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. 0. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is. ,,, _
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.   _
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE ! SPIHITUAIIST,
Am. 18, 1876.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY/ AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature o,f ._Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, SprituaHst ? News-^
£sper Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,'
ondon, "W.C:
[For purposes of mutual "convenience the above office has been:
rented on the premises of the "National Association" of Spirit¬
ualists, "but the Association and 'The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected" with "each
other.] ia V m ;V
Price 7s.. 6d., cloth. ,
1>OEMS FROM THE ’ INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN." Tenth edition. " This volume opens
with the wonderful'experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and -spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The -Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account ofthe means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which" each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium: is stated,; and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion is pourtraj ed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its" ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, "U.S.: Colby and Rich. London Spirit-
Office.
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
TLS.A. .The most ’faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors pf ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence.
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 88, Great Bussell-street,
London, W.O.
Price 5s.
IRELAND: UR OF THE CHALDEES.
London: Triibner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Reviewbes’ Criticisms.
“Irishmen ought: to read this work and be proud. It is
crammed with learning which does credit to the research of
the writer.1'—Christian World.
“The somewhat startling proposition contained .in the title
of this work can hardly fail to interest a considerable number
of readei s, and for those who may be inclined to take the work
in hand, we may briefly state that the line of argument pur¬
sued is intended to show that the Chaldeans, the Hebrews,
and the Celts are identical, the summary given at the close
being that ‘the Arpbaxadite Chaldeans were the progenitors
of the Hebrew Chaldeans, and differ only in name from the
first Gaels.’ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amount of corrobora¬
tive evidence is adduced in support of them, the value of which
many will be glad to test.”—Rock.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occorring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paiis, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The "Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
Bald:—“I should like to hear something fresh about an’mal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a bearing nerve Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND
EFFECTS, by Babon Dirckinck-Holmfeld. A review
of this pamphlet appeared in the March number of The
Spiritual Magazine of this year. May be had of W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, BlooAsbury, W.O. Price
6d., post free, 7d.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 28.
THE HOME FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O.
Thb long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
witheut the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Home, on the principle of a private
Boarding House. It is conveniently located for the principal
railways,, and is in the very area of the spiritual movement.
Its arrangements have been designed with a special view to
the requirements of Spiritualists.
Applications should^be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. a. 0, Burke.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Willjam Howitt, Eeq., RomqTOajjrip *. -. ? /•’. jy .
S. Oj; Hall,"! Esq., F.S.A , 50, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander.Calder,-Esq.;-1, Hereford-,square, South Kensington
Charles Blaokburtr." Esq!; Didsbury^Manchelter."' ‘ ■
iW^M^Wilki^gop^ .EkqN'AdrLioc^ln’sT-iph-flelds.'*
A. A. Watts, Esq., 119, Lansdowne-r(?ad,»N,Qtting-hill, W
;S..Chinhery, Esq.^Hif^Strand, London, W.O. -
;J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Eomore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury. ■
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-rd., uloucester-gate, Regent’s-pk.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool. .
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7,"Albert-road, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent. Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixon, Esq., M.D.. 8 Great Ormond-street, W.O.
W-. H. Harrison, Esq., 88, Great Russell-street, W C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. C. Copperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Yarley, Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
; | buildings, E.C.
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, York-place, Ponman-square
John Lament, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thos. Slater, Esq., 19, Leamington-rd.-villas, Westboume-pk.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq., 4. Castledine -road, Anerly, S.E
W. J. Williams, Esq., Clarence Club, Waterloo-place, S.W.
Epes Sargent, Esq, Boston, U.S.A.
Subscriptions, | which will be duly acknowledged, may be
forwarded to the Ron. Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq , 1,
Hereford-square, South Kensington, S,W.; or to the Hon
Sec., A. Joy, Esq., 69, Great Russell-street, W.C.
The follotoin sums have been already subscribed:—
Charles Blackburn, Esq      £50
A. V. H      80
Martin R. Smith, Esq    '.  25
Alexander Calder, Esq. ,.,     25
William Tebb, Esq  25
A. L. Elder, Esq |    25
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq    20
O. v. Hoffmann ......J      20
James Wason, Esq ..7..'. 20
Friends at St. Petersburg  !t  19
Friends at Glasgow, per H. Nisbet, Esq   10 16
Thomas Grant, Esq        10 10
A Friend    ;      10 10
Mrs. St. Claire       10 0
W. J. Williams, Esq  10 0
Two Friends and Neighbours      10
W. C. Ooppertbwaite. Esq      10
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq      10
Alexander Tod, Esq     10
J. Ridley, Esq.......-”..   10
Mrs. Hamilton..,..."   10
Mrs. Daun     10
T. J. Allman, Esq  t  10
Mrs. Hennings     5
Mrs. Berry         5
J. Y. Vernon, Esq...."     6
W.S.Godbe    5
W. H-Harrison, Esq.       5
C. Townsend Hook, Esq.^     5
William Howitt, Esq      5
Enmore Jones, Esq       5
A. A. Watts, Esq    5
Mrs. Watts   6
Walter Weldon, Esq.    5
P. G        5
M. G. S.....        5
C. F. Varley, Esq.   5
J. H. D      5
F. Griffin, Esq   5
Sir Charles Isham," Bart     6
J. S. Law, Esq.  c    5
Scribo     5
Friend per Mrs. Vtmon  3
G de Liagre .....l........"..  3
C. Pearson, Esq s    3
Miss Clark  - 3
S. O. Hall. Esq      2
John Marshall, Esq    2
; C. Stephens, Esq   2
Dr. R. Baikie    2
F        2
Rev. W. Whitear  ",  2
Miss Whittar      2
Thomas Scott, Esq. ■  .".  2
D. G. Fitzgerald, Esq     2
Miss Watts     2
T. Skinner, Esq., M.D    2
L. J    2
G. Damiani   2
T. Shorter, Esq :   2
M. De Veb   2
John Lamont, Esq    2
C. McLean, Esq ;.....      2
Miss Douglas    2
J. Hare, Esq, and Friends   2
Rev. J. Manners...    2
R. B      1
D. H. W       1
A. Glendinring, Esq    1
W. Glynes, Esq '.  1
J. T. Peele, Esq  1
Dr. C. L. Robertson   1
Mrs. S. Dickson  1
Regnum         1
Friend, per T. Hayle, Esq   1
F. A. Binney, Esq ;   1
W. W  1
J. Swinburne, Esq.        1
J. Gledstanes, Esq      1
Mrs. M. Gregory    ; 1
Dr. Hayle  1
C. P. Carter, Esq  1
Mrs. Wiseman    1
A. R. Wallace, Esq   1
J. O. Eno, Esq  1
Col. H. S. Olcott   ft kilt      1
Baronin v. Vay    0 18
C. Parsons, Esq  0 10
O. O. G   ;•    o 10
■ C. Reimers    0 10
D. S.Yt     0 5
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Seeond Volume of The Identity of Primitiv
Chritiicmity and Modem /Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound In cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
1.7-Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience.
VI.—Dreams and Visions
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XT.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIIT.—The Spirit-World.
XIV.—Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. 6d. each, post free 11s. 6d., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
The religio-philosophical
JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modern Spiritualism. Established in 1865.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
tbe Religio Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, Sd. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
II1-
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, jet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms thattbestrongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. fid.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of * the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
J- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (YVies-
baden); The Countess of Caithness; the Duke of Leuchtenberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent;(Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunpby,
Barnster-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wasou; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the "Life of Swedenborg"); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. 0.
Maurice Davies. D.D., author of “Unorthodox London”: Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Bamster at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D.-H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, 4 dels. 17 cents per annum, which
may he paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “The Manager,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.”
[December, 1875.]
Cjr.e j^ratalisi fUtogjrajj-er.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Half-a-
AJ crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty woids, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London ; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the. first post on the previous Wedtetday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing "Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
■ the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. ALLEN, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
