AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 104.—(Vol. V.—No. 8.) LONDON: AUGUST 21, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence-
Contents.
Comparative Spiritualism. By Emily Easlingbury   85
Letter from Mrs. Tappan   ...    86
The Christian Spiritualist Newspaper   87
Materialised Spirit Forms-An Extraordinary Test Seance with Miss
Showers. By Charles Blackburn   87
Swedenborg’s Mediumship    88
The Dalston Association   ... 88
The Conference at Gower-street:—How should the Lower Spirits be
Treated ?—A Trance Address on Undeveloped Spirits—Where
shall Next Year’s Conference be held?  89
The Conference at the Crystal Palace:—Mrs. Fitzgerald on the Use of
Spiritualism—Fagan Spiritualism—The Mental Freedom conferred
by Spiritualism - The Influence of Spiritualism on Freethinkers—
Mrs. Tappan on National Organisation—The Influence of Spirit¬
ualism upon Human Societv—The Difficulties of Inquirers   90
Poetry:—The Reincarnation of Cleopatra     ... 93
Correspondence:—The M ediumship of Mohammed, 93; Prince Wittgen¬
stein on Reincarnation. 93; More Rod Seances at Barrow-in-Fur¬
ness, 93; Spiritual Manifestations in Hull   94
Mr. Foster in Australia    94
The Death-beds of Spiritualists. By Epes Sargent  95
The British Association at Belfast   95
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in Marylebone, 86; Mental Influences at
Seances, 94; Mr. Morse in the Provinces, 96; Breaking the News
Gently, 96; A Permanent Human Double   96
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
promote the studv of Pneumatology and Psychology; to aid students and
inquirers in their researches, by placing at 'heir disposal the means of sys¬
tematic investigation into the now recognised facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by
careful scientific research; and to direct attention to the beneficial in¬
fluence which those results are calculated to exercise upon social relation¬
ships and individual conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of
every class, whether members of Local and Provincial Societies or not and
all inquirers into psycuological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested 10 communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Louis Freeman, y ork-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex, of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of- the table of contents on applica¬
tion. LONDON: SlMPKIN, MARSHALL & CO.
EIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
.Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J, J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Mr. Morse will sail for the United States on Thursday, October 15th, 1874.
He ha-t a few vacant dates for September next; early application is
necessary.
Opinions of the Press,
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted ou the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character. ’—Spiritualist.
‘The a idress quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent ”—Brighton Guardian.  
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. Edwaid Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. [ Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. I Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
npHE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY
_1L having engaged Mrs. O. L. V. TAPPAN for Sunday, August, 30th,
MR. MoRSE, whose regular engagement with the above Society falls on
the same date, has kindly consented to withdraw in favour of Mrs. Tappan.
The above society would esteem it a favour if one of the numerous Spirit¬
ualist Committees in the provinces could engage Mr. Morse's services for
the above date. For address see Mr. Morse's li-t of meetings.
ORATIONS ON SPIRITUALISM. — Marylebone
Music Hall, High-street, Marylebone. Dr. Sexton, M.A., LL.D.
(Editor of The Christian Spiritualist), will deliver (D.V.) at the above Hal],
a series of Orations on the above subject, on Sunday evenings, August 2nd,
9th, 16th. and 23rd. Reserved Seats One Shilling, and other e<-ats free by
ticket only, to be obtained of the following gentlemen:—Mr. J. Burns, 15,
Southampton-row, W.O.; Mr. F. Cowper, 338, Edgeware-road ; Mr. J.
Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove; Mr. Whitley, 2, WVllington-terrace, Kays-
water; Mr. J. Hooker, 33, Henry-street, St. John’s-wood; Mr. T. Whiiting-
ham, 27, Warren-street, Fitzroy-square; and of the Secretary, C. White,
46, Dorset-street, W. Admission Tickets for these Orations must be
obtained on or before the Saturday previous to their delivery.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 21, 1874.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
. 2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
VERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in Olerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Association. ,
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con-
feremces, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
into closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.  
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WEIR’S COURT),
NEWGATE STREET, NE W0ASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seanees are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rides' on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LG YELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist.
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
THUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland.
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD. AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.’’—Saturday Review.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure. By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.'
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and 1 irections of Human Development—The Sig¬
nificance of Life—De Brofundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubner & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
7V,easwm\—Herbert N. Mozlgy, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper.
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” PRINTING AND
PUBLISHING COMPANY,
4, KINGSGATE STREET, HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
In the Printing Department every arrangement has been made for the
prompt execution of all orders. Printing tof all kinds done cheaply and
well. Estimates given.
In the Publishing Department is kept a complete assortment of
Spiritual, Progressive, Reform and Miscellaneous books at wholesale and
retail prices. London and country agents supplied with all kinds of
Spiritual Literature in one parcel immediately on publication. Terms:
Cash Payments. Catalogues of books, giving prices, &c., may be had upon
application.
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive move¬
ments, should subscribe to
THE “ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily. • '
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half-yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d.eadb.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING.
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general iu formation.
ONE PENNY.
Published at 4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn; Wholesale Agent, F. Pitman,
20, Patemoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any bookseller.
INVESTIGATORS AND ENQUIRERS into Spiritualism may obtain,
gratis, all information concerning the various societies, national and local,
seances, mediums, lecturers, &c.
All communications to be addressed, George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street,
Holborn, W.C.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 16th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
EVUE 8PIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
| fondfe par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
VOH.UJVIE FIVE.
LONDON, FRIDAY,
FIUJVIBEF( EIQHT.
AUGUST 21st, 1874,
Established in 1869.
CHARGE EOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisenaents Five Shillings per inch.
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Alien, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No noticq is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, andxopies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 184, Bourke-street.
Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. B. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. 0. A.. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, hews agent, 74, Bruuswick-street.
Bichmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Tar&dale.—J. T. Biley, High-street.
Or The Spirittialist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Oowper. J Mr. 0. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. C. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, including use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock. 1
COMPARATIVE SPIRITUALISM.
BY EMILY KISLINGBUBY.
The few remarks let fall by Mr. E. D. Rogers at the
Crystal Palace meeting, on Friday, August 7th, on the
subject of Reincarnation, and the contest likely to
ensue on the publication and study of the works of
Allan Ear dec, between his followers and the English
or American school of Spiritualists, had a deeper
significance than perhaps was apparent to those who
have not, like myself, watched the aspect of affairs in
Germany during the last few months.
Without entering into the particulars of a corre¬
spondence with the leaders of both parties, who have
honoured me with their friendship, it is sufficient
to say, that the war-note has been sounded, and the
battle begun, and that before long it is probable that
every German Spiritualist will be ranged under the
banner of Scientific Spiritualism on the one hand,
or that of the Reincarnationists on the other.
The scientific Spiritualists are of opinion that
there is nothing in the works or teachings of Allan
Kardec which cannot be refuted by the study of the
works of Andrew Jackson Davis.* In Psychic Studies
all the strongest evidence which can be drawn from
the pages of the Spiritualist and from the writings of
Mr. Crookes, is every month literally reproduced for the
strengthening of the scientific position; and a course of
twenty-two lectures, as will be seen from the last
number of Psychic Studies, has just been completed in
Leipsic, on the teachings of Andrew Jackson Davis, by
his translator and commentator, Mr. G. C. Wittig.
In England, where, as Mr. Rogers has predicted, as
I believe rightly, that the contest on this question is
not far ahead, it is to be hoped that it will not be
necessary for us (I speak more particularly for the
National Association) to take up the position of
partisans. The Germans have themselves taught the
value of comparative studies. We have, through them,
comparative anatomy and physiology, comparative
grammar, and even, as Professor Max Muller is begin¬
ning to teach us, comparative religion. As a necessary
corollary to these will stand comparative Spiritualism.
It is hopeless to suppose that we can be all of one
opinion on this, any more than on any other subject.
When men appear to be all thinking alike, it is a sure
sign that they are not thinking at all. Perfect
unanimity means simply stagnation. The whole truth
of any subject is too wide for any one human mind to
contain it all; besides, nothing impedes the healthy
action of our perception of truth more than, as was
well put by Dr. Gully in his remarks at the opening of
Conference, the blind following of leaders.
* On the contrary, we know that Davis’s works can be proved to abound
with errors, by an appeal to established facts, though there is much good
social teaching in his books. Also, by appealing to facts only, we think the
foundation for Kardec’s theories to be very weak. Unless theories are
unanswerably demonstrated to be true by facts, they must rank for the
time being as mere speculations.—Ed.
86
'THE SPIRITUALIST.
Am 21, 1874.
Let us hope, therefore, that we English Spiritualists,
who stand insulated between American Spiritualism
and A. J. Davis on the one side and Continental
Spiritism and Allan Kardec on the. other, may, by care¬
ful study and comparison of the views of each school,
he enabled to find some neutral spot which may become
a point of union for the combatants, and that the
truths of scientific Spiritualism and of reincarnation
may be thus eliminated and reconciled.
It would hardly be fair to characterise the struggle
as merely that between fact and theory, though the one
may be based on what we are accustomed to consider as
more palpable evidence than the other. Yet Spirit¬
ualists, of all other men, will beware of rejecting evi¬
dence of an internal and mysterious nature, on which
the convictions of many of the soundest thinkers among
us are based. To comparative Spiritualism, therefore,
I would reckon those studies which inform us of the
normal action of the brain and of the processes of
mind, psychology and mental philosophy, as at present
understood, for in my humble opinion it is only in con¬
junction with these that any true, or even approximate,
solution of the whole question of Spiritualism is to be
found.
Whether it will be the work of one master-mind
who, uniting the universal sympathies of—shall I say,
a Goethe ?—with the inductive powers of a Bacon,
will deduce and found a system of philosophy more all-
embracing than that of Comte, or a religion more soul-
sufficing than that of Catholicism; or whether it will
remain for each individual to work out for himself his
own salvation, and build by the labour of his own
hands a habitation for the nurture and growth of his
spirit, has not been revealed or foretold ; but, as know¬
ledge, as opposed to intuition, must be, at any rate, our
first foundation, it behoves us to collate and study, not
empirically, but by careful scientific methods, every
class of fact and every wide-spread theory (which is also
a species of fact) in connection with our subject, under
the head of what I have ventured to name comparative
Spiritualism.
And for this end, I believe we cannot do better at
present than follow the advice given by Mr. Rogers, i.e.
to study the writings of Allan Kardec, and I would
add, those of A. J. Davis also, whose ideas, being
known to many only at second-hand, will not, under
those conditions, avail us in such debates as we may
look forward to being engaged in before, or by the time
the Spiritualists of England are again assembled in
Conference.
93, Clarendon-road, Hotting-hill, W., August 9th.
Me. Joseph Ashman, the healing medium, who has
done a vast amount of good in the world by curing sufferers
of long-standing diseases, beyond the reach of the skill of
orthodox medical practice, has issued a little book, entitled
Psychopathic Healing, which we will review in a future
number.
Spikitualism in Marylebone.—The Marylebone Asso¬
ciation of Inquirers into Spiritualism held its monthly social
meeting at the Shakespeare Coffee House, 6, Blandford-street,
London, on Monday evening, 10th inst., Mr. Whitely in the-
chair. Several important subjects were discussed, one of
which was the desirability of establishing a discussion class at
the above rooms to aid inquirers to become better acquainted
with Spiritualism and kindred subjects. These meetings will
be held in conjunction with the subscription seances held in
the same rooms on Tuesday and Friday evenings. The first
of the new meetings was held last Wednesday, and they will
be continued weekly, commencing at eight o’clock. Mr.
Charles Hunt is secretary to the society.
LETTER FROM MRS. TAPP AH.
(From the Banner of Light, July 25th.)
We are permitted to make the following extracts
from a private letter from Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan,
dated July 2nd, to a friend in this city. Though not
written for publication, the frank, earnest, and graphic
account she gives of her own labours in England,
cannot fail to interest our readers:—
Since Sunday I have lived an age in work and
wonder. I was to lecture in Guiseley (one mile from
Yeadon and seven miles from Bradford) on Sunday,
and in Yeadon on Monday night. One man and his
wife are Spiritualists in Yeadon—Mr. John Waugh,
grocer. He has circulated sundry copies of the Bay-
hreak, containing my addresses, creating much inquiry,
but no one absolutely joining him in the matter. He
took the hall, made suitable arrangements, and called
the people together from their factories and workshops.
A thunder-storm kept the women away in the after¬
noon, but the audience of noble, stalwart-looking men
more than half filled the hall. And I wish you could
have heard them sing! We had chosen such hymns
from the Wesleyan collection as we thought would be
known to all, and I have never heard—in opera, ora¬
torio, or other choruses—such fine music. They chose
the subject for the lecture and for the poem.
In the evening, the hall being filled with ladies and
gentlemen, they again sang, again chose the subjects,
asked questions, and manifested such enthusiasm as I
have rarely seen. Remember, these were not Spirit¬
ualists, and that during the questioning there was
severe opposition from both “ secularists” and Orthodox
Christians. But the answers, always mild, clear, and
dignified, carried the sympathies of the audience. We
went home to Mr. Waugh’s.
At Yeadon, on Sunday night, after partaking of
some refreshment, a young man came in with a friend,
asked pardon for intruding, and gave as an excuse that
he had been prevented from attending the lecture by a
swollen and painful foot. I looked at his foot, which
was encased in a large, low shoe, cut entirely open in
slits, to prevent any pressure. He carried a cane,
seeming to walk with great difficulty; said that his
foot had been swollen a week. We talked of the lec¬
ture and various matters, he sitting more than ten feet
from me. Presently I saw a white 6loud surrounding
his limb below the knee, and two hands making passes.
Ho one else saw this, of course. I said nothing, but
the young man looked a little frightened, and quite
pale, and said, “ I feel strangely; my leg is quite numb.”
I replied, “ It will do you no harm; ” and we kept on
talking. Meanwhile he continued working his large
joint, which he declared he had not done before for a
week or ten days; and, after a little, he rose to go,
saying he felt much better.
We learned subsequently that he had walked home
quite well, without his cane, and that in the morning
he had put on his boot and laced it up. About noon
he came to us, looking very radiant, saying, “ I could
not help coming to let you see that I am well!” and
he was. The foot was in a boot, and laced precisely like
the other, and he walked perfectly well. He went about
the streets telling all his friends what had happened.
So many people (all working people) came to the house
that I was obliged to keep my room.
In the evening, the whole way from the house to the
Aug. 21, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
87
hall was lined [with children and grown people, and at
the hall the throng outside was immense, and the room
packed in every'part. A shout of applause^greeted our
entrance. A chairman was chosen from among the
audience (a manufacturer). The singing was again
most fine. The audience chose the subject—something
about “ God”—and for the poem “ Dr. Livingstone.”
At the close the chairman made a complimentary speech.
The audience cheered in a most enthusiastic manner,
and during the questioning all were civil, respectful,
and nearly all sincere seekers for truth. They followed
our cab home, and gave a loud cheer as the door closed.
I felt so strongly the spiritual outpouring, especially
when the women thronged around me, at the close, and
said they could have listened all night!
We drove in a cab that same night to Bradford.
Tuesday, came to Liverpool, speaking the same night,
and again last night to two of the most stormy meetings
I have ever addressed—not stormy from opposition, but
eagerness, and a few opponents.
THE “CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER.
Dr. George Sexton has become the editor of the
Christian Spiritualist newspaper, and there is con¬
siderable improvement both in the appearance and
contents of that journal. Dr. Sexton is a very clear¬
headed and logical advocate of Spiritualism. Until
recently he was outside its ranks, and was well known
as one of the leading supporters of Mr. Bradlaugh, and
of the theological sect known as Secularists. We say
“ theological sect” advisedly, because it has its dogma;
and on the single occasion on which we tried to
enter into an argument with its leader Mr. Brad-
laugh, of the National Reformer, on the subject of
the nature of matter, so far as Bishop Berke¬
ley, Professor Huxley, Professor Tyndall, Sir
William Thomson, and others, have by patient
research, unravelled its characteristics, we found that
Mr. Bradlaugh did not understand the subject, and
was exactly as ignorant as any wind-bag of a street
preacher. He is a “ materialist,” who does not know
what patient experimental philosophers have discovered
relating to Jthat “ matter ” on which his opinions are
founded; and, despite his undoubted independence of
character—which is his chief virtue—his education,
which is deep enough for the masses, is too superficial
ever to gain him a name among philosophers. Out of
this theological sect comes Dr. Sexton, and so great is
his recoil from his former opinions that he has become
the most orthodox of the orthodox—in short, the leader
of Christian Spiritualists. Many of these, as well as
of our more unorthodox brethren, bought the last
number of his journal, to learn his views on the doc¬
trines of the Trinity and the Atonement—the key¬
stones of the arch of Christian Spiritualism — but
found nothing on those vital points; not that the
doctor is a rope of sand, where his new supporters
most trust him, but probably because he is taking
time to show himself, in the next number of the Chris¬
tian Spiritualist, to be a veritable wrought-iron, gal¬
vanised chain cable, to which they may safely moor
the two doctrines in question. No doubt his new
followers will ply him, as in duty bound, with letters
on theological points, to see whether he is quite
sound on those doctrines of which he is now the
temporarily silent exponent, and not a few are waiting
to see how they will be presented by an advocate of
such undoubted ability. One might as well cut a hole
in a drum, to discover where the noise comes from,
as to search the last number of the Christian Spiritualist
to discover its new editor’s opinions about vital Chris¬
tian doctrines.
Once upon a time there was a knowing old dervish
from whom his followers expected a declaration of
principles and purposes, and an unravelling of certain
knotty theological cobwebs which gave great satisfac¬
tion to those whose brains they hampered. So the
venerable dervish, after spinning round on one leg like
a good-natured teetotum, and after going through other
devotional exercises, mounted a minaret, and called the
faithful to listen unto the words of wisdom which fell
from his learned lips. “ What ho! ye followers of the
prophet! ” quoth he, “ know ye what I am going to say
unto ye ?” “We do not know,” replied the crowd.
“ Neither do I intend to tell you,” replied the dervish;
and the simple people went away, pondering over his
words of wisdom. The next day he again mounted the
minaret, and said, “ Oh, disciples of Mahmoud! know
ye what I am about to tell you?” “We do know,”
said the listeners, thinking to catch him this time. “ Is
it so ?” replied he, with a wicked twinkle in his eye,
“ then there is no necessity for me to tell you.” The
third day he mounted the minaret, and/exclaimed, “Oh,
all ye true believers! know ye what I am atyout to tell
you ?” upon which one half of the listeners said, “ We
do know,” and the other half said “ We do not know.”
“ Allah be praised !” said the wise old dervish, lifting
his hands to heaven, “ Let those who do know tell
those who do not know;” and he retired to his devo¬
tions. The minaret of the Christian Spiritualist news-
paper has been newly whitewashed inside and painted
outside, and the able Dr. Sexton is haranguing from its
top. His followers below wish to know his opinion
about their vital doctrines of the Trinity and the Atone¬
ment, and we most heartily wish they may get it.
MATERIALISED SPIRIT FORMS.
AN EXTRAORDINARY TEST SEANCE WITH MISS SHOWERS.
BY CHARLES BLACKBURN.
When last in London I had not the opportunity of
seeing anything of Miss Showers’s mediumship, as she
and Mrs. Showers had returned home to Teignmouth ;
therefore I wrote and asked permission to go there and
have some seances privately. This was promptly re¬
plied to by inviting me; so I went to an hotel there
and remained a week, but called every evening at Mrs.
Showers’s, whose kindness and hospitality were every¬
thing I could desire.
Now, I had previously thought over how I must set
about proving the truth, or otherwise, of this young
lady’s mediumship, and I concluded that it merely re¬
quired the substantiating of three points, viz.: 1st.
The spirit voice, that it was not her by ventriloquism.
2nd. When a face appeared, that it was not her with a
mask . 3rd. When a full form appeared, that it was
not her own bodily form at all. I consider these to be
the points to be solved in all these phenomena in their
present condition of progress.
1. The Spirit Voice.—After hearing three or four
different voices singing in the dark, whilst Miss Showers
played the piano, I lit the candles and asked her away
from the piano to a chair, with its back against the
wall, so that I could see her face all the time; I then
88
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 21, 1874.
made her take a mouthful of water, and asked the
spirit rt Peter ” to speak; he instantly shouted in his
robust voice, <c Will that do for you ?” Miss Showers
then spat the water from her mouth into a basin, and
this experiment was repeated. The loud voice seemed
to come from about twelve or fourteen inches above her
head, and fully satisfied me it was not done by her.
2. Faces appearing.—A curtain was fixed in front
of a small dressing-room doorway, reaching to about
six inches from the top, and Miss Showers sat just
within the curtain. I tied a tape close round her waist
and sealed it, and brought the ends outside, fastening
them with nails, visibly to all eyes, exactly level with
her waist as she sat on a very low seat. It was not
possible she could reach the top of the curtain within a
yard, and, had she got up, the tape and nails must have
been rent asunder. She became entranced, and various
faces appeared ; the spirit shortly afterwards told us to
go inside and see. We did so, and found her in a
trance, tied exactly as I had fastened ter; therefore it
was not her doing.
3. Full Form appearing and coming out of Cabinet
amongst us.—The same little dressing-room and cur¬
tained door was used, but the curtain was nailed to the
top of the moulding of the door to shut out all light,
and a couch was placed inside. Now, in this important
test I took her left ear-ring out, and passed a threaded
needle through the aperture, with five yards of thread.
Miss Showers lay down on the couch and I threaded the
two ends of the strings through where the door hinges,
and fastened them to a nail driven by a gentleman into
the door casing, and visible to all; thus she had a
single thread through her ear in her dark room, and we
had the two ends in the light room. She was quickly
entranced, and very shortly a spirit named “ Lenore”
came forth amongst us perfectly destitute of any thread
fastening. We all felt her ears; she had no boring
whatever through her ears, and the lobes were very
thin and far smaller than Miss Showers’s. She had
only one large toe to each foot; the other four toes
were ossifications, and not toes at all. We all examined
her very small feet with our hands and eyes; nor are
we in the slightest mistaken. She told us her feet
would have been perfected had there been more power.
When this figure retired, we all went into the cabinet
with faint light, and awoke Miss Showers. She had
the thread through her ear just as when she first lay
down on the couch. We cut the threads close to her
ear, and traced it direct to the nail without a knot or
piercing in it. Miss Showers’s feet, I scarcely need
say, are perfect, and were examined.*
I now leave the public to judge whether it is fair to
slander such an excellent, truthful, and honourable
medium. In fact, a debt of gratitude is due to both
Miss Cook (that was), and Miss Showers; indeed, any
gentleman who has a proper mind would apologise to
both families for recent language used against these
two respectable young ladies, only eighteen years of
age.
Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester,
August 13,1874.
* Mrs. Showers, in the course of a note to us, says—“ Last night Mr.
Blackburn passed a thread, some yards long, through my daughter’s left
ear, and brought out the ends into the room where we were sitting. Lenore
appeared, walked about among us, and allowed us all to feel her ears.
There was no thread in them, and at the conclusion of the stance Mary was
found on the sofa, precisely as she had been left. From the moment that
the spirit first appeared we observed that she held out her left foot in a
very remarkable manner. It looked more like a hoof than a foot. All of
us were allowed to hold it, and to examine it in succession. There was
only one toe, and the others were wanting l I really felt a very peculiar
sensation at the time.”
SWEDENBORG’S MEDIUMSHIP.
The following citations from the writings of the
famous medium, Swedenborg, represent scores of
similar passages:—
“ 5th Jan., 1748.—An angel directed what I wrote
to-day, and in such a way that I could perceive there
is not the least thing outside God Messiah’s care.
“ 11th Jan.—Spirits often wish me to steal things of
small value, such as are exposed in shops : so strong is
their desire that they actually move my hand.
“ 19th March.—A spirit thanked me when I had
finished writing for having assisted him. I was aware
that he thought himself to be- me, as is often the case.
He told others what he had written, but said he was
not sure whether he had copied it with his own hand.*’
—Swedenborg’s Spiritual Diary.
“Man’s will and understanding are ruled by the
Lord by means of angels and spirits. . . That this is
the case has been proved to me by much experience,
for angels have been permitted to move my steps,
actions, tongue, and speech, at their pleasure, by influx
into my will and thought, confirming me in the con¬
viction that of myself I could do nothing.”—Heaven
and Hell, No. 228.
“ One spirit can infuse his thoughts and affections
into another spirit without the other’s knowing other¬
wise than that the thought or affection is his own. I
have seen it done a thousand times, and have done it a
hundred times myself. . . To this fact I can add my
own daily experience: evil spirits having often injected
evils and falsities into my thoughts, which appeared to
me as if they were in myself, and from myself, or as if
I thought them myself; but as I knew that they were
evils and falses, I endeavoured to find out who injected
them when they were detected and driven away.—
Divine Providence, No. 312.
THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION.;
At the last half-yearly meeting of the Dalston Asso¬
ciation of Inquirers into Spiritualism, as reported in
our last, Mr. Thomas Wilks moved and Mr. Pomeroy
Tredwen seconded a resolution, That the Dalston
Society should not enter into friendly alliance with the
National Association of Spiritualists, because, by so
doing, it might be supposed to commit itself to the
Spiritual theory, and not to be—as its title states—a
society of ‘ Inquirers.’
Just before Mr. Wilks moved the above resolution,
which was carried by a majority of one, he had moved
another, to the effect “ that the half-yearly report be
received and adoptedthis was passed unanimously
by the meeting, and the report was signed by the chair¬
man. The said report, thus adopted on the motion of
Mr. Wilks, certified that “Florence Maples,” who
appears through the mediumship of Miss Showers, is a
materialised spirit.
Which most commits the Dalston Association to the
spiritual theory—entering into friendly relations with
another society without officially endorsing any of its
teachings or principles, or, on the motion of Mr. Wilks,
unanimously adopting an official document certifying
the reality of materialised spirits, which official docu¬
ment is then signed by the chairman on behalf of the
Dalston Association?
Only one other argument was urged against entering
into friendly relations with co-workers in the same
cause, which argument was of such an intensely selfish
Aug. 21, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
89
and commercial nature, that probably it was endorsed
by nobody but its originator. It was to the effect that
as there was little chance of getting money out of the
Rational Association at present, the entering into
friendly relations with it had better be postponed.
When the Rational Association is in possession of large
funds, the Ralston Society had better make the originator
of the foregoing argument the honourable bearer of the
following honourable message, which he can deliver in
Eastern style, with which he is familiar—“ Allah be
praised! When you infidels had not a shilling, and
asked us to join you in good works,, we true believers
kicked you as we would unclean dogs. But, behold!
your purses are now filled, and we, faithful followers of
the Prophet, perceive that you have as many virtues as
we have wives; we think you worthy to enter the gates
of Paradise itself, and to eat the fruits of the sacred tree
of Juba; in fact, we of Ralston look upon you as our
inseparable and dearly beloved brethren. But,Bismillah!
IJpon my head be it, we expect you will give us plenty
of baksheesh ! ” When that time comes, what will the
Rational Association reply to the Ralston Society ?
THE CORFERENCE AT GOWER-STREET.
The report published in these pages last week, detailed the
proceedings of the 1874 Conference of Spiritualists at Law¬
son’s Rooms, Gower-street, London, as far as the reading of
the paper on “ Spiritualism and the Church of England,” by
the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., author of the Unorthodox
London articles in the Daily Telegraph. This paper was read
on Thursday afternoon, August 6th, under the presidency of
Mr. Thomas Everitt.
Mr. J. J. Morse said that Dr. Davies had spoken truly in
saying that Spiritualism offered healthy scope both for faith
and experience. Why had not Dr. Davies come to a conclu¬
sion on the subject of Spiritualism after all his experience ?
Mr. T. Shorter said that the Church of England inculcated
belief in “ The Communion of Saints,” in her hymns the
existence of guardian angels was frequently mentioned, and
not long since Archbishop Tillotson preached a sermon on
“ The Ministry of Angels,” the whole of which was in har¬
mony with the teachings of Spiritualism.
After a few words from Mr. D. Richmond and Mr. John
Lamont,
Dr. Davies said that nobody had attacked his paper, as he
hoped would have been the case, and no element of discussion
had been raised. He had been asked why he had not come to
a conclusion about Spiritualism ? He was satisfied that there
was truth at the bottom of it. He had kept a private journal
for eighteen months of what he had witnessed; he began by
believing everything devoutly, but as he gained more expe¬
rience and weighed objections, he grew more sceptical. He
would advise everybody who wished to examine the phe¬
nomena of Spiritualism, to evolve them in their own homes,
in the midst of their own families.
Mr. John Lamont then took the chair, and Mr. J. J. Morse
read the second part of his paper on trance mediumship,
Mr. T. Shorter said that the paper was a good illustration
of the value of inspirational mediumship, for Mr. Morse had
been entirely educated by spirits, who had gradually wonder¬
fully improved his normal intellectual capacity.
HOW SHOULD THE LOWER SPIRITS BE TREATED ?
Mr. Ganney asked what was the duty of mediums to the
lower spirits ? He was one of a band of public musical
performers; several of the band were mediums, and were
much troubled by some of the lower spirits who produce
physical manifestations. When the members of the band
were together, the spirit power was much stronger, so they
did all they could to remain away from each other, and to
keep the powers down. He was resisting the attempts of the
lower spirits to obtain control over him; the members of the
band all agreed that it was a dreadful power; it had carried
some of them through solid walls, floated them round rooms,
whisked them to the top of the house and back again, till at
last, in the midst of such occurrences, they hardly knew
whether they lived on their heads or their heels. The spirits
argued that it was the duty of the mediums to give way to
the power, for the good which the manifestations would do to
the world.
A TRANCE ADDRESS ON UNDEVELOPED SPIRITS.
A speaker here suggested that Mr. Morse’s spirits should be
asked to control him, to reply to Mr. Ganney’s questions and
to say a few words about the Conference.
After some discussion Mr. Morse requested the listeners to
sing, and during prolonged singing of “ Shall we gather at
the river ? ’’ he passed into the trance state and said:—
Your expressed wish influenced the thoughts of our medium,
and his thoughts were read by his guardian spirits, therefore
we are here in response to your desires; without the inter¬
vention of the spiritual world with the affairs of man, the un¬
dertaking which has brought you together would not have
been in existence, and we are thankful that you have remem¬
bered us, and invited us to speak here to-day. Unless invited,
we do not force ourselves on your attention. There are those
who sneer at the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, and
call the encouraging of the same il dealing with demonsfrom
this view we dissent. The physical facts serve the important
purpose of proving to the world that there is an extraordinary
power in your midst, und the influence of careful observers is
that that power must be wielded by spirits ; thus the physical
manifestations are useful and valuable. It is unwise to as¬
sume that in all cases the spirits who produce the mani¬
festations are undeveloped and degraded; it is true that in
the great; percentage of cases they are near to the earth
plane, but not necessarily lower in their moral nature than
the average of the mortals present in the circle; in the
majority of cases they have some sense of moral responsibility.
Good spirits can produce physical phenomena, and most of
those who produce them are not of a very undeveloped
type of mind. How should you treat them ? Spirits are
human beings, divested of material structure; do not drive
them away, but treat them rationally and scientifically; if
you drive them away they will only return reinforced in num¬
ber and maliciousness, and do more harm than before.
Specific times and places should be appointed for receiving
this class of spirits, in the presence of a higher spirit-band
belonging to the circle. To condemn them entirely is wrong.
Pray for them. Your Catholic doctrine of praying for the
dead has a foundation in truth, and many a spirit has con¬
fessed to your speaker that he began to rise in spirit life from
the moment that some mortal aided him by prayer.*
We will now utter a prophecy:—This Conference, small in
its beginning, will be permanent in results for the orderly and
rational unfoldment of Spiritualism: its effects will be
lasting.
Mr. Morse then woke up.
WHERE SHALL NEXT YEAR’S CONFERENCE BE HELD?
Mr. John Chapman asked whether anybody could suggest
where the next Conference should be held.
Mr. Morse wished to know whether any decision then come
to should be binding or reversible.
Mr. Algernon Joy thought that nothing said that afternoon
should be binding, but that the council should decide at its
leisure; for instance, some country friend present might in¬
vite the Conference to meet in a provincial town, and it be
afterwards discovered that he had no authority from the
Spiritualists in that town to do so.
Mr. Morse said that he thought that the next meeting
should be held in Newcastle, where was the third largest
society of Spiritualists in the Kingdom; they had a large hall
of their own which they would place at the disposal of the
Conference—it was the old Freemasons’ Hall, in fact. York¬
shire, Scotch, and London Spiritualists could easily get to
Newcastle by rail. He would suggest that the Conference
should meet in the evenings and not in the mornings; in
the former case more friends would be able to attend. He
thought that the Conference should begin with two Sunday
services, then have three evening meetings, and close with a
soiree on the Thursday.
Mr. D. Richmond suggested Bradford, Yorkshire, as the
place of the next Conference. It was very central, and there
were more Spiritualists in Yorkshire than in all the rest of
the country put together.
Mr. E. D. Rogers said that the question was too important
to be settled in a hurried manner. It was usual for invitations
* It is a fact that there are scores of mediums all over the country, to
whom unhappy spirits frequently come and request the aid of their prayers.
Why cannot they pray for themselves ? Is it the sympathy which benefits
them ?—Ed.
90
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 21, 1874.
to come before large organisations, and for the claims of
different localities to be the subject of careful deliberation.
An intimation might go out through the columns of The
Spiritualist, by the reporting of the present discussion, that
the Council were willing to hear from different towns on the
subject, and if anybody thought the Council would not make
a fair choice, the vote of all the members of the Association
might be taken as to where the Conference should be
held.
Mr. Chapman said that the decision might be left to the
Council.
Mr. Harrison said that he had attended all the meetings of
the British Association for the Advancement of Science for
the last eight or ten years : it never went anywhere without
receiving a warm invitation; if it went to a provincial town
Without being asked, the results would probably be disagreeable
to the members. (Hear, hear.) In like manner, he thought
that invitations should be received and considered, before the
place of the next meeting was fixed.
Mr. John Lamont said that there was no doubt that the
British National Association of Spiritualists, was an organi¬
sation greatly wanted by the movement, and he trusted that
it would overcome all opposition with love. He hoped that
the Association would be a great blessing not' only to Great
Britain, but to humanity. (Applause.)
This closed the proceedings at Gower-street, and the Con¬
ference was adjourned till the following day, when the place
of meeting was the Crystal Palace.
THE CONFERENCE AT THE CRYSTAL PALACE.
The 1874 Conference of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, held its closing sittings in the Marble Hall at the
Crystal Palace, on Friday morning and evening, Aug. 7th.
Dr. George Sexton presided, and among the gentlemen on the
platform were Mr. Benjamin Coleman, of Upper Norwood;
Mr. John Lamont, of Liverpool; Mr. Adshead, of Belper;
Mr. D. H. Wilson; Mr. R. Cooper, of Eastbourne ; Mr. E. T.
Bennett, of Betchworth; and Mr. Algernon Joy.
The Chairman made a few opening remarks to the effect
that at the present time much public interest was displayed
in Spiritualism, if but few converts were made.
MBS. FITZGEBALD ON THE USE OF SPIBITUALISH.
Dr. Sexton then read a paper by Mrs. Fitzgerald, in
answer to the question Gui Rowo.? Afljer pointing out what
great advances science has made within the last 800 years,
the authoress argued that no time could be better than the
present for a further religious revelation to mankind. She
pointed out that the modern spiritualistic manifestations are
paralleled by those recorded in the Bible, saying:—
We have examples of the tangibility of the spirit forms
in the two angels who pulled Lot into the house to them, and
afterwards “ laid hold upon his hand, and the hand of his wife
and his two daughters.” Also, the angel who “smote Peter on
the side and raided him up,” and the angel who twice touched
Elijah, and specially, perhaps, in the mysterious one, with
whom Jacob wrestled “ till the dawning of the day, and who
with a touch lamed him for life.”
This recognition of spirits is proved by such as Samuel, by
Saul, and of Moses and Elijah, by the three apostles on the
Mount. Numerous examples may be given of the light which
surrounded the angel who appeared to the shepherds; the
light which shone in the prison when the angels came to
Peter; and the luminosity of the garments of the angels at
the asc nsion of our Lord ; probably, also, of the luminosity
of M ses and Elias when they “ appeared in glory.” Spirits
carrying material t-ubt>tances we have in the cake and the
cruse of water brought to Elijah in the wilderness by the
angel. The movements of heavy bodies we have in the rolling
away of the great stone from the door of the sepulchre ; and
in the opening of the prison door by the angel to set Peter
and John free; also, “ the iron gate which leadeth to the
city,” which opened of its own accord. There are instances
of levitation of heavy bodies, such as the swimming of the
iron hatchet-head under the control of Elijah, the walking of
Peter on the water, the catching away of Philip from the
desert of Azotus, and the “ going up ” of Elijah. Of spirit
writing we have the notable instance when “ there came forth
the fingers of a man’s hand and wrote upon the plaster of the
wall at the king's palace.
Non-susceptibility of organic and inorganic substances to
the action of fire we find in the case of Shadrach, Meshach,
and Abednego, including their raiment. Other phenomena
equally noticeable in their way, such as the alleged posses¬
sion by spirits of the bodily organs and mental powers of
“ mediums,” which might be readily illustrated by Holy writ.
As to the argument that Spiritualism is useless, Mrs. Fitz¬
gerald remarked:—From my own personal experience, I can
certify that many of my acquaintances and intimate friend shave
found the deepest consolation in bereavements and afflictions
from the teaching of the spirits; that many materialists have
given up their limited and hopeless creed, and have rejoiced
in their newly-found light. The grieving mother’s heart has
been cheered and solaced by the assurance that her loved one
is not “ far, off ”—that the child watches and sympathizes
with the mother’s trials and yearnings, but without pain, as it
sees that these very trials are for the refining of our natures.
Many of those who led reckless lives, believing in annihilation
after death, have suddenly had their career arrested by an un¬
expected visit or revelation from the spirit world. There
can be little doubt that this is not the first time spirit and
angel visitors have made efforts to communicate with man.
The world being in gross darkness, and not prepared to receive
them, the poor “ mediums,” from being misunderstood [(as were
the “ bringers of good tidings” 1,800 years ago), were put to
shameful and torturing deaths. The English condemned and
burnt the inspired, the heroic Joan of Arc, the Maid of
Orleans, as a sorceress in a.d. 1431, because she pleaded that
her mission had been given to her by spirits and angels who
visited her in visions. Many of our lunatic asylums have
undeveloped “ mediums ” incarcerated within their walls 1 The
spirits now come to tell us that God never forces truth upon
his children. He offers it for their acceptance. They come
now to tell us there is no death; that what we call death is but
the awakening to life. They teach us above all, charity one
to another, brotherly love, purity of life, truthfulness, self-
examination, and individual responsibility! Spiritualism
meets a want which in many natures is only partially satisfied
elsewhere. It assures us of our endless existence; of our
eternal progress. It tells us also that the deep affection of the
so-called dead still endures, and will endure; that the tie
which has once linked loving hearts, will never be broken;
that the father, the mother, the husband, the wife, the
brother, the sister, and the child are not lost; that we shall see
and be known of them again !
But what is the note that has been struck ? What is the
cry sounding in our ears from those who ought to teach us
better things ? Why, that this holy and blessed teaching, this
holy and blessed consolation, is but a trick of the devil, none
other than the devil! And was it not so in the time of Jesus ?
Was not His forerunner, John the Baptist, accused of “ having
a devil ? ” Are we to have none of the gifts which have been
promised to us? Where is the “pouring out of the spirit?”
Where are “ the greater things than these ye shall do ? ” Is
God, who is revealing to us His very secrets of creation day by
day, to hear His children cry for spiritual food, and not only
turn a deaf ear to their cry, but to send a devil to them? Is
this the “Father” whose name is “Love,” who when His
children ask for bread will give them a stone, or for a fish
a serpent ? And will he allow the devil to scatter poisoned
sweetmeats in their way to cheat His children, and to glory
afterwards in the sufferings they inflict ? “ Ye shall know
them by their fruits,” we are told. “ Do men gather grapes of
thorns, or figs of thistles?” Be assured this'is no devil’s
work. It is “ God ” who is sending His sweet messengers to
us, to break the slavish shackles of the fear of death, and to
set the captive free. It is the “ pouring out of the spirit ” so
long promised, because man never was in greater need than
now; his very nature craves for it, and in God’s good time it
has been sent! We will now conclude with the well-known
words of Lord Bacon, “ Certe enim veritas temperes non
auctore elates dicitur."
PAGAN SPIBITOALISM.
Mr. H. T. Humphries, barrister-at-law, remarked:—The
paper says much about the Biblical statements relating to a
future state; I wish it had also gone into the question of
Pagan views of the same subject; it would be a very interest¬
ing aspect of Spiritualism if anybody would take it up. The
Elysian fields believed in by the Greeks, and the Limbo of
Fools spoken of by Milton, include very accurate ideas of the
future state of man. Christians believe that the Almighty
gave a special revelation to a very small section of humanity,
but to all the rest His utterances were sealed; the effects He
thus gave to ancient Christians are administered to by their
modern successors; all but the very few thus favoured are
outside the pale. The truth is, that both Hebrew and Gentile
THE SPIRITUALIST.
91
Aug. 21, 1874.
saw through a glass darkly, but the darkness is now being
cleared away. I am opposed to the theological paragraph in
the “ principles and purposes ” of the National Association;
it goes too far for some, and not far enough for others, and
the less of such dogmas we have in our programme the better.
The less we lay down creeds the better. A creed means—
“ God has given a revelation to man, but as He has not made
His meaning clear we will do it for Him.” (Laughter.) There
is a constant revelation all around us, and we had better let it
speak for itself. (Applause.)
Miss Kislingbury;—It seems to me that the ancient Greeks
had a much higher and truer idea of God than ourselves, and
that that is the reason why they could express their ideas in
works of art so much better than we do in modern times.
Now we can only copy them. If we had truer and deeper
religious ideas, those ideas would naturally express them¬
selves in our art; we should then be able to express original
thoughts of our own, without making copies—and very bad
copies, too—of the works of those gone before.
Mr. Humphries stated that the last great revolution in
Madagascar was said by the natives to have been brought
about by the spirits of their ancient kings.
THE M.ENTAL FREEDOM CONFERRED BY SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. D. Richmond, of Darlington, said that he rejoiced in
the freedom of spirit which Spiritualism was giving to this
age, when its followers needed not the keys of the Pope nor
churohal creed; nothing now stood between men and the
heavens. He felt that his head reached to the clouds, and
that angels could play upon it in tunes and feelings; if the
spirits in harmony with a man were good and pure, they
would help to give him good and pure thoughts and feelings.
What a glorious freedom had sprung up within the last quarter
of a century 1 It was true as had been said by onei of old—
“ The time is coming and now is when men will not worship
either in this mountain or in Jerusalem, but all will worship
the Father in spirit and in truth.” He did not condemn in
any way the past Christianity or the past religions of the
world—they had given their meed of happiness to their fol¬
lowers—he did not seek to alloy the happiness of the churches;
he simply rejoiced that Spiritualism had given to man living
communication with the heavens to-day.
THE INFLUENCE OF SPIRITUALISM UPON FREETHINKERS.
Mr. John Lamont, in proposing a vote of thanks to Mrs.
Fitzgerald for her paper, said that Spiritualism had a tendency
to deal effectively with freethinkers, who as a rule, were very
intelligent men, exercising a powerful influence on the thought
of this country. Infidelity, as it was called, had been confined
of considerable power of thought and culture, and Spiritualism
grappled fairly with their difficulties where the churches failed.
The great power now in our midst dealt fairly with the whole
subject, consequently many freethinkers have been brought
into the ranks of Spiritualism, and now accept what is reliable
in the Bible, which previously they had rejected. Lord
Amberley’s paper on Spiritualism, coming as it did from an
intelligent freethinker, was of very great value, and he (Mr.
Lamont) wished that all the clergy would read its contents.
He knew a man in Liverpool who for forty years had been an
Atheist, yet in his own house he had seen him inspired by the
most sacred spirit of prayer; truly, then, if there were no good
in Spiritualism, there was no good in any moral teaching
whatever.
Mr. B. Coleman seconded the vote of thanks, which was
passed unanimously.
MRS. TAPPAN ON NATIONAL ORGANISATION.
Miss Kislingbury said that Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan had
written many letters expressing sympathy with the views and
objects of the National Association of Spiritualists, to which
she gave her warmest support. She then read an extract
from one of Mrs. Tappan’s lectures on the subject.
Miss Kislingbury next read the following paper, written for
the Conference by Mrs. Tappan’s spirit guides:—
THE INFLUENCE OF SPIRITUALISM UPON HUMAN SOCIETY.
Under this general heading we propose to consider the
especial results that must ensue when the general subject, as
a philosophy or a system of ethics, becomes adopted as a
special science. Thus far principles only have been stated
connecting Spiritualism with the philosophies and theologies
of past ages, the groundwork being the immortality of the
human soul, the nature and manner of its existence beyond
death, and the possibility of intercommunion between the
spiritual and mundane worlds. But the immortality of the
soul is in some manner connected with the religions of all
people, while the nature and manner of the spiritual existence,
though not generally understood, has been sufficiently well
stated in the teachings of Confucius, Zoroaster, Socrates,
Plato, and in the wonderful revelations of Christianity, as well
as in the writings of Swedenborg and others of less note. The
difficulty in time past, however, has been to establish, by any
of the usual intellectual methods, the existence of a super¬
mundane philosophy, inspiration having been considered as a
special gift of Providence, instead of a general possession of
mankind ; a particular and peculiar dispensation, instead of a
luminous spiritual atmosphere surrounding all minds. We
must not forget, however, that the spiritual, as well as the
material structure of the earth has been evolved in epochs,
each epoch culminating in some mind or minds who have been
the Saviours of the world. And we must not forget that these
Saviours and leaders have left their spiritual indices along the
ways of human thought, as palpably as have the river-beds
and ocean waves left their records upon the rocks. And
Spiritualism cannot be considered without reverting to the fact
that in the history of mankind another spiritual wave has
been looked for, foreseen, and foretold to occur at or about this
period of time, and that the accompanying manifestations that
make up the substance of the proof of Spiritualism, are not to
be considered as a cause in themselves of spiritual renovation,
but the effect of the spiritual wave referred to, that as certain
indications precede a tempest, or certain rumblings give token
of an earthquake, these spiritual signs give evidence of a
revolution already taking place, and are but the outward indi¬
cations of inward fire. In a religious sense, this revolution has
long been pending. The advent, the peaceful advent
of Unitarianism was taking the place of the smouldering
fires of the Reformation, and good deeds, and acts of
human brotherhood, have been gradually usurping the
place of bloodshed and sacrificial devotion, while the
bloodless victories of science have prepared the way
for the enlarged sphere of human thought, applying the
reason and judgment of mankind to those subjects heretofore
forbidden, or supposed to be unattainable. There are two
possible ways for Spiritualism to affect the world, without
attaining the result for which it is intended. We will briefly
refer to these two. First, a theological direction, which in the
present condition of humanity would be most disastrous to
spiritual truth. Nothing new can be said concerning Deity.
Anything that falls short of the absolute concerning Him can¬
not satisfy the soul. Between Him and the soul in its indi¬
vidual and exclusive existence there is no barrier. He illu¬
mines, inspires, directs. Whoever makes a creed, or upbuilds
a theology (forming new definitions of the most ancient truths)
erects a barrier between some soul and God, even if that barrier
be Spiritualism. The danger in this, as in all previous spiritual
outpourings, is that the light shall become crystallised, surround¬
ing the soul with a wall of adamant instead of the solvent of
pure light. From a luminous atmosphere sparkling with
divine rays, fresh from the Infinite, the thought of man would
ever concentrate and crystallise pure gems, palpable to the
touch; but in thus capturing the primal rays they build
prisons that require ages to overthrow. Spiritualism cannot,
therefore, found a theology, or a new sytem of worship, or
anything resembling a creed without endangering the pure
ray of light that must flow from the divine mind to every
soul.
The other danger is that it shall become a mere term
expressive to the scientific mind of certain approximate atoms,
molecular conditions, atmospheric vibrations, but devoid of
the essential spirit, which is the soul of every science, viz.:—
a distinctively new proposition in the realm of thought. Thus
far its physical manifestations and mental phenomena have
taken place (with rare exceptions) under seemingly accidental
circumstances, without the preparation and expectation of
scientific pre-arrangement, and therefore not available as
testimony in any consecutive arrangement of facts for a
scientific basis, and always have these phenomena been ob¬
served from the stand-point of a previously adopted theory,
or of some other established science, such as mesmerism,
psychology, clairvoyance, or from the stand-point of an arbi¬
trary term, as od force, odilio force, psychic force, instead of
from the stand-point of pure observation. We have stated the
danger in a theological direction; in a scientific one it is even
greater, the bigotry of materialism being stronger, as it is
lower than that of theology or religion. The real purpose and
aim of all truth is to have a bearing, to make its way unper¬
verted in the world, and do its work, regardless alike of insti-
92
THE SPIRITUALIST.
tutions, pre-established thoughts, and approximate theories :
the unconscious work that every truth has wrought, making
of steam, electricity, the printing press, the mariner’s com¬
pass, of astronomy, geology, chemistry, the silent weapons
whereby the bloodless victories of civilisation have been
wrought. The work allotted to Spiritualism may not be so
special in a scientific sense, but is certainly as powerful in an
absolute sense, as any one of the above-named systems of
science, and, we may add, greater than the whole of them
combined. First, in a scientific sense, which is its most ex¬
ternal expression, Spiritualism will reveal yet certain essential
elements, both primal and approximate, whereby the soul is
connected with matter, and by which it manifests through
matter, even to the utmost tracing of the vibration of a
thought, supplying the links between spirit and matter that
science has never attained. Second, it will make those elements
or principles available to human activity and thought, causing
the same results to be attained over matter by embodied
human beings that are now attained only by disembodied
beings. Third, the exalting of human volition from an in¬
voluntary control over matter to a voluntary and distinctly
teachable science, whereby mesmeric, psychologic, and even
electric, psychic, and atomic vibrations can occur under the
distinct control of the human will. Fourth, the erection of a
superstructure of scientific truth, based upon a knowledge of
the primal causes of life and motion, this primal truth being
the recognition of the antecedent spiritual cause of every
material effect. But it is in a larger sense of social, mental,
political, and even religious renovation, that Spiritualism is
destined to work its chief results. The abrogation of the
primal terror of mankind, the most ancient spectre in the
world of thought—grim and shadowy death—is, in itself, so
vital a change that it constitutes a revolution in the world of
mind. Chemistry has already revealed the wonderful fact
that no ultimate atom can perish. The subtle chemistry of
Spiritualism steps in where science ceases, gathering up the
ultimate atoms of thought into a spiritual entity, and proving
them imperishable. Already has this thought pervaded the
popular mind, tinged the decaying forms of theology and
external science with its glow, and made the life of man a
heritage of immortal glory. More than this, taking spirit as
the primal basis of life, each individual, and all members of
society, and humanity in the aggregate, must for ever strive to
express its highest life (i.e. the life of the spirit). The child
will be taught from within, external methods being employed
only as aids, but never as dictators of thought. Society will
be the flowering out of spiritual truths, taking shape and sub¬
stance as the expression of the soul. Governments will be
the protecting power of a parent over loving children, instead
of the dictates of force or tyranny. Religion will wear its
native garb of simplicity and truth; the offspring of the love
and faith that gave it birth. Nor is this aim too highly
drawn, too glowingly portrayed. Remove the sunlight from
the external world, and there is nothing left, though earth,
and air, and' sea, and rock might still remain. Remove the
spiritual life and light, and the world is barren of thought.
Modem Spiritualism is as great a solvent of creeds, dogmas,
codes, scientific sophisms, as is the sunlight of the sub¬
stances contained in earth and air; as great a vitaliser,
changing the inert forms of past methods of thought into
life-giving splendour; appropriating and perfecting the wan¬
dering atoms and erratic comets of philosophy and reform to
their appointed purpose, and revealing, by the stages of inter¬
mediate life, from man, through spirits, angels, archangels,
seraphim and cherubim, to God, the glorious destiny of every
soul. There is a vine growing in the islands of the tropic
seas that thrives best upon the ancient ruins, or crumbling
walls of some edifice built by man, yet ever as it thrives, the
tiny tendrils penetrate between the fibres of the stone, cutting
and catting till the whole fabric disappears, leaving only the
verdant mass of the foliage of the living vine. Spiritualism
is to the future humanity what this vine is to the ancient
ruin.
Mr. Morse said that he thought one of the greatest uses of
Spiritualism to be the way in which it abolished creeds,
both theological and scientific. The only creed a man need
have was to live in accordance with what he believed to be
true, and to be full of love to God and love to man. (Applause.)
Six years ago he had drifted into a negative state about
the existence of God, and the reality of a future life, when
Spiritualism came in and solved those questions for him at
once; still, he always thought there must be a God, for he
could not account for the existence of anything in creation
without an antecedent cause. Ge had received ample and
Aug. 21, 1874.
satisfactory proof through Spiritualism that departed relatives
of his own were living in the world of spirits, and that know¬
ledge had made him happy.
THE DIFFICULTIES OF INQUTREES.
A gentleman rose, and asked whether, as a visitor, he
might ask a question? Science taught, as Mrs. Tappan’s
paper stated, that not a particle of matter could be destroyed,
and that not a particle of matter could be created; where
then did the matter in the alleged materialised spirit forms
come from? A friend had told him that it came from the
bodies of the sitters at the circle, and from the medium.
Had this been proved ? He could see the use of Spiritualism
if its truth could be demonstrated. Once, when questioned
at a public meeting, Mr. Morse’s spirits had said that one
proof of their being spirits, was the fact that they could
address a public meeting in language so much above the
capacity of their uneducated medium, but as he had just
heard Mr. Morse speaking quite as well out of the trance as he
did in it, the argument had not much weight. He should
like to know more about Spiritualism; he could get any
amount of testimony, but found that to gain knowledge for
himself, he must spend a great deal of time, and a great deal
of money, neither of which was he inclined to do.
Dr. Sexton then made a very long speech, in the course of
which he said that the gentleman was wrong in stating that
matter could neither be created nor destroyed; all that
science had really proved on the point was, that up to the
present time man had not been able to create or destroy a
single atom of it. Who knew what chemists in the spiritual
world could or could not do ? If the gentleman would not
give any time to the subject, nor go to any expense, nor accept
testimony, of course he was shut out from knowing anything
about Spiritualism, as he would be if he approached any other
subject in like manner. There was, however, no necessity to
go to much expense in the matter; he (the speaker) expended
scarcely anything and witnessed a great deal, chiefly in his
own home.
Mr. Morse explained that he was quite uneducated when
the spirits took him in hand six years ago, and that in his
normal state he had never had any education; the results
proved that there was some good, even to the medium, in
trance mediumship.
Mr. W. H. Harrison remarked that the spirits asserted
that they took part of the matter in the materialised forms
from the mediums, and part from the sitters; the latter
usually were more or less exhausted by the 'seance and grew
hungry as it proceeded; this showed that there was consump¬
tion of energy somewhere, but the thing was to get exact
measurements, Mr. Crookes, who had done so much good of late
for Spiritualism, had obtained information as to the weight of
the medium and the materialised form, but the results were
not [for publication just yet. He (Mr. Crookes) intended to
bring out a book on spiritual phenomena.
Mr. H. T. Humphries said that he had never spent sixpence
over mediumship, but had seen much of spiritual manifesta¬
tions.
Mr. R. Cooper said that he obtained evidence of the reality
of the phenomena by sitting at home, with members of his
own family, for manifestations; that was the best way for all
inquirers to investigate. His little daughter, fresh from
school, became a writing medium, and wrote wonderful
autographs of people who had died long before she was bom.
If inquirers would not begin at home, they could get good
seances with professional mediums, at very small fees as com¬
pared with the importance of the subject.
Some votes of thanks were then passed, and the meeting
adjourned until the evening.
The conclusion of the proceedings of the Conference will be
published next week.
The Publication of all letters received after Monday is
postponed till next week.
Me. N. E. Da we, treasurer to the National Association
of Spiritualists, is still at Lucerne, and expects to be at Inter¬
laken in a day or two: his health is improving. Mr. Ivimey,
of the National Association, is with him, but will probably
return to town this week. Mr. Dawe writes to us that the
weather has been bad lately in Switzerland, also that he has
met few English tourists there this season; the great majority
are Germans. Mrs. Makdougall Gregory is at Inverness. Mrs.
Honywood is still in Bohemia.
Aug. 21, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
93
$0W8.
THE REINCARNATION OF CLEOPATRA.
The following is a portion of a poem entitled “Cleopatra,” by W. W.
Story, the American sculptor: it was published originally in Blackwood’s
Magazine:—
Ah me! this lifeless nature
Oppresses my heart and brain!
Oh, for a storm and thunder,
For lightning and wild, fierce rain!
Fling down the lute—1 hate it I
Take rather his buckler and sword,
And crash them and clash them together
Till this sleeping world is stirred!
Hark 1 to my Indian beauty—
My cockatoo, creamy white,
"With roses under his feathers—
He flashes across the light.
Look, listen, as backward and forward
To his hoop of gold he clings,
How he trembles, with crest uplifted,
And shrieks as he madly swings!
Oh, cockatoo, shriek for Anthony!
Cry “ Come, my love, come home!”
Shriek “ Anthony 1 Anthony! Anthony!”
Till he hears you, even in Rome!
There—leave me, and take from my chamber
That wretched little gazelle,
"With its bright black eyes, so meaningless,
And its silly, tinkling bell!
Take him—my nerves he vexes—
The thing without blood or brain—
Or, by the body of Isis,
I’ll snap his thin neck in twain!
I will lie and dream of the past time,
iEons of thought away,
And through the j angle of memory
Loosen my fapcy to play:
"When, a smooth and velvety tiger,
Ribbed with yellow and black,
Supple and cushion-footed,
I wandered where never the track
Of a human creature had rustled
The silence of mighty woods,
And, fierce in a tyrannous freedom,
I knew but the law of my moods.
The elephant, trumpeting, smarted
When he heard my footsteps near,
And the spotted giraffe fled wildly
In a yellow cloud of fear.
I sucked in the noontide splendour
Quivering along the glade,
Or, yawning, panting and dreaming,
Basked in the tamarisk shade,
Till I heard my wild mate roaring,
As the shadow and night came on,
To brood in the trees’ thick branches,
And the shadow of sleep was gone:
Then I roused and roared in answer,
And unsheathed from my cushioned feet
My curving claws, and stretched me,
And wandered my mate to meet.
We toyed in the amber moonlight,
Upon the warm, flat sand.
And struck at each other our massive arms—
How noble he was, and grand!
His yellow eyes flashed fiercely
As he crouched and gazed at me,
And his quivering tail, like a serpent,
Twitched, curving nervously.
Then like a storm he seized me,
With a wild, triumphant cry,
And we met as two clouds in heaven
When the thunders before them fly.
We grappled and struggled together,
For his love, like his rage, was rude;
And his teeth in the swelling folds of my neck
At times, in our play, drew blood.
Often another suitor—
For I was flexile and fair—
Fought for me in the moonlight,
While I lay crouching there,
Till his blood was drained by the desert;
And, ruffled with triumph and power,
He licked me and lay beside me.
To breathe him a vast half hour,
Then down to the fountain we loitered,
Where the antelopes came to drink;
Like a bolt we sprang upon them,
Ere they had time to shrink.
We drank their blood and crushed them,
And tore them limb from limb,
And the hungriest lion doubted
Ere he disputed with him.
That was a life to live for!
Not this weak human life,
With its frivolous, bloodless passions,
Its poor and petty strife!
Come to my arms, my hero,
The shadows of twilight grow,
And the tiger’s ancient fierceness
In my veins begins to flow.
Come not cringing to sue me!
Take me with triumph and power!
As a warrior that storms a fortress!
I will not cringe or cower.
Come as you came in the desert
Ere we were women and men,
When the tiger passions were in us,
And love as you loved me then!
iCnrresponlience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF MOHAMMED.
Sib,—Mr.Bosworth Smith, in his hook on Mohammed, says
that Sprenger has described most minutely the “ epileptic
fits” of the prophet, or, in other words, the manner in which
he was spiritually influenced. If he would send the details to
the Spiritualist for publication, they would be of interest to
all its readers. So also would a short description of the few
miracles attributed to Mohammed by his followers. X.
PRINCE WITTGENSTEIN ON REINCARNATION.
Sib,—Mr. Garbett has, in your last Spiritualist, mentioned
my letter which you kindly published some weeks ago, and I
hasten to acknowledge the applicability of his remarks. They
may serve to open a wide field of thought and discussion on a
really interesting subject, the closer examination and defini¬
tion of which would aid to unite two very distinct groups of
Spiritualists—those who believe in reincarnation, and those
who do not. I do not quite agree with Mr. Garbett, when he
assimilates the Buddhist and Pythagorean doctrines, which, I
believe, teach the transmigration of the spirit into animals
and plant's, with Kardec’s beautiful law of moral and intellec¬
tual progress through different compensatory human exis¬
tences ; but, like him, I wish to see that great problem resolved
by closer examination and the assistance of good leading
spirits. I confess, at tho same time, that I am a very weak
theologian, and that, if I suggested the words Mr. Garbett
refers to, as contained in the Scriptures, I simply meant to
state (as probably taking its source in the Bible) our Protes¬
tant confession of faith. This is the same, I suppose, in
England as in Germany, and a passage in it says;—“ I believe
in the resurrection of the flesh.” Now this belief being, if
literally accented, in direct contradiction to the material laws
of nature, as well as to the sublime teachings of our faith,
which does not admit of useless wonders, I prefer Kardec’s
version, which cuts short at once all misunderstandings, by
teaching us the resurrection in the flesh, alias “ reincarna¬
tion.” Emile, Prince of Sayn-Wittgenstein.
Nieder Walluf, on the Bhine,
Aug. 10th.  
MORE ROD SEANCES AT BARROW-IN-FURNESS.
Sib,—Since I last wrote you, a gentleman informs me that
i a most untruthful communication has been given through the
rod, of the injury and death of a relative. This was nothing
less than a wicked lie, finished up too with a “ Good night,
God bless you.” Now, who made such a lie up? Certainly
not the persons holding the rod,Lto cheat and alarm them¬
selves ; therefore, there seems no alternative but to admit that
it must have been an invisible agent—call it spirit, or force, or
what we may. Spiritualism says it would be a disembodied man
or woman, who when on this earth would have been as gratified
in telling such an untruth as now. Tables, we know, also are
sometimes controlled by similar untruthful ones. We have
had several cases under notice recently; I should say also
several.cases with the rod too; but it would not be good to
fill your space with details.
I purposed giving you an account of some rod seances held
on Good Friday last, but find they are too long for this letter;
otherwise they, being so good, would more than counterbalance
the bad ones.
With your kind permission I will conclude with a strange
communication received through the rod, on May 3rd last.
The controlling agent gave his name as “ Jack Todd,” said
he lived in London, and was nine years of age ..when he left
earth in 1801. He further said he was a “ chimley ” sweeper.
Quest. Are'you happy ?
Ans. Yes, now, but on earth was very unhappy; my
master used to make me work so hard, and when I
was at work up a “ chimley ” he lighted some straw and
choked me.
94
THE SPIEITUALIST.
Aug. 21, 1874,
Quest. Was your master punished ?
Ans. He is very unhappy now—so low.
Quest. What did you feel ?
Ans. I had to go up the “ chimley,” and half way up it was
so narrow, I tried, but could not get up. Master cursed me
for being so lazy, and said he would make me, and lighted
some straw. I felt cold, and looked up and saw many spirits
holding out their arms for me, so I went with them, and was
so happy.
Quest. Was he found out?
Ans. Yes, for he is so unhappy.
Quest. Was he punished on earth?
Ans. No.’
Quest. What was the name of your master ?
Ans. Alfred Jones, Whitechapel, He employed 15 sweeps.
Now, sir, is this a bit of spirit romancing, or is it a true
story? We cannot tell—you have it to place before your
readers simply as it was received. The holders of the rod
assuredly did not make it, nor was such a narration in the
minds of the one or two other friends present.
Perhaps to avoid bad controls we should take the advice of
a good one, who, just before closing one night, caught the rod,
and said—“ You have had bad spirits. You ought to sing
hymns, and pray, and read the Bible at all times when you
want to talk with spirits.”
Our invisible friend most likely is right, and investigators
would probably do well to follow his counsel.
Barrow-in-Furness, Aug. 10,1874. W. B. Thornton.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN HULL.
Sir,—On Monday and Tuesday evenings, August 10th and
11th, two seances were held in the Seance Room, 42, New King-
street, Hull, when Mr. E. Taylor, trance and inspirational
medium, spiritual missionary, from Keighley, was present.
Spirit forms were seen at both seances by two or three of the
sitters. Trance addresses were given by Mr. Taylor under the
control of an Indian, an Irish, a French, and English spirits,
each spirit speaking in its native language. The Indian spirit
afterwards controlled Mrs. Pawson, who is a member of
the circle, and spoke at some length through her. One gentle¬
man present, who was suffering severely from sickness, and
who had, in consequence, some difficulty in attending the
seance, was mesmerised by Mr. Taylor in trance, under the
control of an Indian spirit doctor; the sufferer had so far
improved before he left, that he could scarcely credit the
benefit he had received. The spirit selected others from the
circle who were ailing, all of whom received similar proofs of
spirit power. Mr. Taylor possesses great healing power, and
it has caused the sceptical portion of visitors to his seances to
acknowledge in his presence their belief in the astounding
facts relating to it, and it has led them to further investigate
Spiritualism. On Tuesday night Mr. Bland gave an inspira¬
tional address—the third or fourth of the kind—though he has
been a trance speaking medium for years. A treaty has been
already entered into and arrangements made for Mr. Taylor to
spend a week with his friends in Hull shortly. Particulars
may be obtained at 42, New King-street, Hull. I was present
at both the seances described in this letter. J. J. Caine.
MR. FOSTER IN AUSTRALIA.
To the Editor of the “ Melbourne Argus.1'
Sib,—You will oblige me much, and do honour to your
motto, by finding room in the columns of The Argus for the
facts I am about to narrate.
I have had a seance with Mr. Foster, the medium, of whose
abnormal powers I had previously heard reports. A few days
ago I determined to visit him professionally—if I may so
speak—and pay my guinea for whatever of truth or trickery
his peculiar powers might make manifest to my intelligence.
Having intimated to Mr. Foster that I had come for a sitting,
he desired me to follow him into a neat little room, and we
both sat down at a rather large oval table.
I was no sooner seated than I heard faint and peculiar raps
in different parts of the room, on, under, and about the table
chiefly. These raps gradually increased in strength, fre¬
quency, and loudness; whereupon Mr. Foster remarked,
“ Don’t be frightened, the spirits are appearing in great
numbers, and wishing to communicate with you.” I must
here state that I had previously prepared between thirty and
forty strips of note-paper, on each of which I had written a
name of some friend who had gone before me from this
world, or a question, so that these slips when folded carefully
and closely had the writing concealed from ordinary vision.
These strips of paper, so folded, I threw down before Mr. Foster
7 in a small heap, and we sat for perhaps a minute in a silence
broken only by the continual rapping.
My reverie was interrupted by the voice of the medium, “ A
spirit stands near you, who bids me tell you how pleased he
is to make himself known to you from his happy home in
the next world. His name is Charles Havel.” While the
medium was saying this, he took from the little heap of papers
one slip which he bade me open. I did so, and read out the
name “ Charles Havel,” a gentleman whom I had known in
Paris many years ago, a disciple of Fourier, the reformer.
In this way twenty-two spirits answered to their names,
each of them giving some characteristic message, sufficiently
striking to convince me that the messages were not evolved
from the medium’s own consciousness, especially as the names
were, in every instance, uttered by his lips, and verified by
his picking out and throwing to me the corresponding slip,
without making one mistake, and without evincing any sort
of hesitation or searching.
The next phase of this seance was very remarkable. The
medium suddenly ejaculated, “ A spirit of great beauty and
power, whose name is John Washbourne, wishes to give you
a manifestation.” The words were scarcely uttered when my
pocket handkerchief was snatched from my hand by some
unseen power, and dropped from near the ceiling on to the
table before me, tied in a most unusual manner in three knots.
There could be no mistake about the handkerchief, as my pri¬
vate mark'.was turned out to view in a corner of one of the knots.
The manner in which this was done, and the circumstances
under which the handkerchief was taken from me and re¬
turned to me again in an instant of time, testified to my
senses the presence of the departed. I was, and am, con¬
vinced of the truth of spirit intercourse, as much a truth now
as it was in the' dawn of Christianity—when Paul was con¬
verted by spirit agency, or Peter released from prison by the
same means.
I am well aware of the odium attaching to the word Spirit¬
ualism, and the insulting and opprobrious epithets applied to
those who think that the resources of nature, and nature’s
God, are still equal to the production of new editions of her
former works—^nevertheless, I feel it my duty, as a lover of
truth, whether popular or unpopular, new or old, to testify to
what I have seen, and give my reasons for feeling absolutely
certain that life does not end with death, and that the attri¬
butes of the infinite spirit are not exhausted by the produc¬
tion of merely earthly organisms, but find a field of expansion
worthy of the God of Nature, in the eternal unfoldment and
and development of the creatures of His love.
I am convinced this subject will yet attract a large share of
the attention of thinkers, philosophers, and philanthropists,
and as a means towards that end I respectfully solicit the
insertion of this letter.
I enclose my card, and remain, sir, yours, &c.,
April 27th, 1874. A Ladt.
Mental Influences at Seances.—Even after a circle
has made some progress there may be total or partial failure
at certain sittings. This may be owing to the state of the
medium’s health, atmospheric conditions, the presence of an
uncongenial element in the circle, or some other cause not
easy to discover. It is not wise to invite strangers to a young
circle. There are but few mediums sufficiently developed not
to be affected by their presence. Should a visitor be in a
sneering, suspicious, antagonistic mood, he brings with him
a very prejudicial influence. T. R. Hazard has well said
in his little work on Mediums and Mediumship:—“ Let a
bitter-spirited bigot enter the circle, and indulge in spiteful or
even suspicious feelings, his thought—disguise it as he may—
will embody itself in a spirit element adapted to itself, and
penetrate the sensitive mind of the helpless negative medium
with a chilling blast.” Hazard, on one occasion invited a
clerical friend to a seance, who was evidently unfavorable to
Spiritualism. The sitting was very unsatisfactory. After his
friend left, the medium was entranced, and he inquired of the
spirit present how it was that on ordinary occasions he could
“ obtain satisfactory spirit utterances, whilst, in such an
instance as the one named, the spirits seemed all to become
dumb.” His spirit guide answered, “How would you feel in
the presence of a rattlesnake which was all the time spitting
poison at you ? ” And the writer very properly adds that in
this answer “ may, perhaps, be found a key to unlock the
mystery that attaches to some of the unlucky failures which
occur.”—The Progressive Spiritualist (Melbourne).
Aug. 21, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
95
THE DEATH-BEDS OF SPIRITUALISTS.
BY EPES SABSENT.
Listen to the words that come from the lips of so
devout a Christian as the late Albert Bafnes, of Phila¬
delphia, well known to the religious public at home
and abroad. Hear his cry of doubt and despair :—“ It
is all dark, dark, dark to my soul, and I cannot dis¬
guise it. In the distress and anguish of my own spirit
I confess that I see no light whatever.”
Hardly less desponding than this in tone was the
recent utterance of President McCosh, of Princeton
College, while officiating at a funeral.
Turn from wailings of anguish like these to the last
words, almost playful in their serenity, of the Spirit¬
ualist Socrates. Crito asks him, “ How and where
shall we bury you?” Socrates rebukes the phrase.
“ Bury me,” he replies, “ in any way you please, if
you can catch me, and I do not escape from you!'' And,
at the same time smiling and looking around on his
hearers, he said, “ I cannot persuade Crito, my friends,
that I am this Socrates who is now conversing with
you, and arranging each part of this discourse; but he
obstinately thinks I am that which he shall shortly
behold dead, and he wants to know how he shall bury
me. But that which I have been arguing with you so
long, that when I have drunk this poison I shall be
with you no longer, but shall depart straightway to
some happy state of the blessed, I seem to have argued
in vain, and I cannot convince him. . . . Say not, at
the interment, that Socrates is laid out, or is carried
out, or is buried. Say that you bury my body. Bury
it, then, in such a manner as is pleasing to you, and
as you think is most agreeable to our laws.”
The sequel of the familiar narrative, the introduction
of the hemlock, the drinking of it amid the tears and
lamentions of friends, the solemn silence enjoined by
himself, the pacing to and fro, the perfect equanimity,
and the unquenchable faith manifested in all his last
words and acts, show that Socrates fulfilled in his death
all the professions of his life.
As no unworthy pendant to this picture of the death
of Socrates, learn how another Spiritualist, Mrs. Rosanna
C. Ward, of Cincinnati, met her end. Por several years
she had said to her husband that she would pass away
in the autumn of 1873, in the twilight of a beautiful
day. The fact verified her prediction. She, too, like
Socrates, was a sensitive or medium, in her relations to
spiritual influences.
A few days before her departure she sent for a
Unitarian clergyman, the Rev. Mr. Vickers, and
requested him to conduct the services at her funeral,
and to say, “ This woman did not die in the faith of
Spiritualism, but in an absolute knowledge of the reality
of the after-life and the fact of spirit intercourse.”
She arranged all ’ her affairs, and gave minute direc¬
tions. “ After the spirit leaves the body,” she said,
“ lay the body out for cooling in this room ; lower the
windows about six inches and allow nobody to come in.
“ There must be no sitting up. Go, all, and take your
needed rest, as I shall be doing."
The day preceding her death she lapsed into a deep
trance, and was absent three hours. During this time
her arm was pulseless and her breathing was imper¬
ceptible. When she retook possession of her body,
she said, “ There is so much life in the back brain that
I could not pass away. The back brain must die a
little more before I can leave.” She then said to Mr.
Ward, who had just handed her a flower, “The flowers
are a thousand times more beautiful in the spirit-world
than these ! But all God’s works are beautiful, if we
are only in sympathy with them. My dear, it is all
right.”
She then spoke of the interviews she had been having
with departed relatives and friends, and said, “ I will
go to-morrow.” On the morrow, a few moments before
she passed away, she gave some instructions for her
husband’s comfort, and then, with a smile, looking him
in the face, said, “ My work is now done ; the curtain
falls.” And so the well-prepared spirit passed on to
the better clime, “ the purer ether, the diviner air.”—
Banner of Light.
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT BELFAST.
(From our own Correspondent.)
Belfast, Wednesday Morning.
The proceedings at the British Association will begin
this evening, when Professor Tyndall, the most popular
English lecturer on physical science will deliver his
presidential address, whic his sure to be interesting to
everybody. The opening meeting will take place to¬
night in the Ulster Hall. There is every prospect of
its being a large and harmonious gathering this year;
many visitors have already arrived, and in the Reception
Room this morning I met several London Spiritualists
who are among the members of the British Association.
During the past few days I have been making some
inquiries about Spiritualism in Belfast, and find that it
is almost unknown here; one or two circles, however,
have begun to sit of late in strict privacy, incipient
mediumship has been developed, and manifestations
obtained. A gentleman in whom the first symptoms of
trance mediumship have appeared, has written for me
the following minute account of his sensations:—
In my house, a few friends, including certain
members of my own family, about a fortnight since,
made an attempt to get table manifestations, but with¬
out the slightest success; the attempt was repeated
once or twice afterwards, but failed as before. On
Saturday last I sat down again, with but one com¬
panion—a little son of my own, about fourteen years
of age—no others in the apartment. After some time I
fell into a drowsy state, and having sat about an hour,
the table commenced a very rapid movement. It
rapped as instructed, three for <e yes,” two for “ doubt¬
ful,” and one for “ no.” We have no reason, however,
to conclude that the answers given, though apparently
intelligent, were at all truthful. The next day, Sunday,
the lad and I sat down again. A few seconds after
sitting down I experienced sensations not unlike those
produced by an electric shock. My head was shaken
with a quick convulsive movement, also my arms,
but my head most, so that the on-lookers were a good
deal annoyed, and afraid I was suffering, or about to
suffer. This continued for about twenty minutes, at
the end of which time the table was acting with much
power, and my convulsive movement had passed.
Yesterday and to-day, I had only to put my hands
or hand on the table, when the table was in motion,
always preceded by the convulsive action of the head.
The answers, however, continue to be untrustworthy.
Now whence, or what, is this convulsive movement of
my head ? I never before, in my life felt it till on the
occasion mentioned; but now, or at any time since
Sunday, whether sitting in my chair or standing on my
96
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 21, 1874.
feet, I have only to surrender my will, as it were, and drop
into what I may term a sort of passive state, when the
quick, convulsive action of the head commences. I have
only to put my hands on a table, even a large one, if I
desire to set it into full action, and such table is at once
in motion. Am I, therefore, a medium ? It struck me
to-day that if the influence be spiritual, the influencers
wish me to be a trance medium. With a view to
ascertain this, I sat down to-day on a sofa, throwing
back my head in the attitude of sleep. What followed
was very remarkable. My head was shaken, even
violently for about two minutes; then a little respite ;
then again shaken as before, but with increased
violence. This continued for some time—leaving off,
and beginning again. Then, a different movement—
one in every respect similar to the rocking of a child’s
cradle by a tender nurse or mother, the head moving
from side to side, from cheek to cheek, moderately
slow, as if from the desire of some invisible agency,
anxious to put me to sleep. However, I did not sleep.
Can you tell me the cause? If the agency be spiritual,
it seems to me that the spirits conclude I might be of
service. It might turn out that I would be able to
serve Spiritualism in this town of Belfast, where it is
all but utterly unknown. I should add that when in
the state mentioned, and after arising from the state
described as convulsive, I experience a sensation in the
head exactly agreeing with that mentioned by Mr.
Moore at the present Conference of Spiritualists, in
short, he has described my case in every particular—
hands, arms, and (head. The sensations in the head
are most minutely described. What then? The
influencing power is strong and powerful, and I am
a small light creature, not more than five feet four
and a half inches high, and not one hundred pounds in
weight. ,
Since the foregoing was written, writing mediumship
has been developed in his person.
Some sixteen or seventeen years ago Spiritualism
was introduced into Belfast by the visit of a Yorkshire
medium, and for a few weeks created sufficient sensa¬
tion to bring forth pulpit denunciations, which, coupled
with the feeble character of the phenomena developed,
caused further investigation of the subject to cease.
But the newspapers here have recently printed more or
less about the interest which Spiritualism has awakened
in England, and the Belfast News Letter, which belongs
to Mr. Henderson, the Mayor of Belfast, last week
printed a long report of the proceedings of the National
Conference of Spiritualists, as well as some exceedingly
unsatisfactory occurrences said to have recently taken
place in Newcastle. The Spiritualist has a few regular
subscribers here, a few mediums are in course of de¬
velopment, and the question of taking public action
to promote Spiritualism in Belfast, is under considera¬
tion.
The Unitarians are rather a strong body here, and
one of their preachers, the Bov. F. B. Young, of
Swindon, formerly editor of the Christian Spiritualist,
will visit Belfast in a few weeks’ time.
Dr. Huggins, Professor Stokes, and some others who
have spoken for or against the reality of spiritual
phenomena are here, and Mr. Crookes is expected.
The formation of a Psychological Department of the
Biological Section is under consideration, and it is
expected that on Friday, Aug. 21st, a meeting will be
held to decide upon, the matter, under the presidency
of Mr. Herbert Spencer or Professor Tyndall.
Mr. Morse in the Provinces.—Mr. J. J. Morse has
had three successful meetings in Newcastle-on-Tyne, the
address delivered through him by his guides giving great satis¬
faction ; at the present time interest is felt in Newcastle on
the subject of Spiritualism, the arguments pro and con being
sustained with animation and some ability. Mr. Morse also
held a meeting at Saltburn-by-the-Sea, on the evening of
Friday last; an attentive and appreciative audience assembled,
and the address, the subject being chosen by a committee, was
well received. On Sunday next this speaker will, under spirit
control, deliver two addresses in the Alhambra Hall, Bradford,
that in the afternoon at half-past two, and in the evening at
half-past six. Mr. Morse’s address for the next week is War¬
wick Cottage, Old Ford Hoad, Bow, London, E.
Breaking- the News Gently.—“When the lamented
Judge Bagley tripped and fell down the court-house stairs and
broke his neck,” says Mark Twain,” it was a great question
how to break the news to poor Mrs. Bagley. But finally the
body was put into Higgins’s waggon, and he was instructed to
take it to Mrs. B., but to be very guarded and discreet in his
language, and not to break the news to her at once, but do it
gradually and gently. When Higgins got there with his sad
freight, he shouted till Mrs. Bagley came to the door; then he
said, ‘ Does the widder Bagley live here ?’ ‘ The widder Bagley ?
No, sir!’—‘I’ll bet she does. But have it your own way.
Well, does Judge Bagley live here ?’—‘ Yes, Judge Bagley lives
here.’—‘I’ll bet he don’t. But never mind,—it ain’t for me
to contradict. Is the Judge in V—‘ No, not at present.’—‘ I
jest expected as much; because, you know—take hold o’
suthin’, mum, for I’m a going to make a little communication,
and I reckon maybe it’ll jar you some—there’s been an acci¬
dent, mum. I’ve got the old Judge curled up out here in the
waggon; and when you see him you’ll acknowledge yourself
that an inquest is about the only thing that could be a comfort
to him.’ ”
A Permanent Human “ Double.”—The North China
Herald says:—“ The Shun-pao gives the following story
‘A certain inhabitant of Pao-shun Hsien (near Woosung)
recently resolved to get married, and all proper arrangements
having been made, the bride left her father’s house on the 27th
of the moon before last. She had about five li to go, and on
her way had to pass through a place where there were a lot
of graves and dense thickets of trees—in fact, as wild and
weird-looking a place as could well be imagined. It was about
eight o’clock in the evening, when she got to this spot, and
the chair coolies felt the chair get much heavier. Thinking,
however, that this was merely due to their own fatigue, they
kept on their way, and in due time arrived at the bride¬
groom’s house. The chair was set down, and the curtain
raised, when lo and behold! there was seen to be, not one
maiden, but two, inside, exactly alike in form and feature,
dress and bearing. Everybody cried out with astonishment,
but no one could tell which was which, and the marriage
ceremonies came to a standstill. In haste the bride’s mother
was sent for, but she also was unable to tell the true one
from the false. However, she bethought herself of a plan
which might settle the point. She knew that her daughter
could weave three pieces of cloth in a day, and so she sug¬
gested that if the two were set to weave against one another,
it would soon appear, from the ability displayed, which was
the true daughter. Accordingly, looms were brought, and
the two wove from morning to night, but finished their tasks
at the same time to a, minute. Both the girls are still there,
and cannot be got rid of; it is said they are sending for the
magistrate to look into the matter, and also to the “ Dragon
and Tiger” mountain in Kiangsi, to fetch the “ Master of
Heaven” to exorcise the 1‘double" which thus haunts the
girl. All the country people will tell you this story, but
whether it is to be believed or not we leave our readers to
determine.’” The heroine of this story is said to have
advanced five li's ; the author of it appears to have advanced
more.
INSCRUTABLE are the laws that govern the incidence of
some of the greatest calamities.—A RAILWAY ACCIDENT is, to
any particular person a (theoretically) remote contingency, but it may
happen, as a matter of fact, the very next journey undertaken. The risk,
in a pecuniary sense, may now be covered FOR LIFE by a single small
payment.—Apply for prospectus of the
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE COMPANY
Limited,
to
THE MANAGER, 42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.C.
OR TO
MR. THOMAS ELY TON, AGENT, 12, HIGH-STREET, BOW,
LONDON, E.
Aug. 21, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.'W.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Bernard-viUas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Qerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street. Grosyenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.U., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jenoken, H. 1)., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.O.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Ross-Church, Mrs. (Florence Marryat), 21, CoMlle-road, Kensingston-
park, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Oairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Biehmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice, D.D., 44, Netherwood-road, West Kensington-
park, W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers. Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terraee, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lillan-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D, G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S , 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.O.
Harper, Robert,, 5, South-street, Finsbury, a.O.
Houghton, Miss, 2Q, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphries, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64. Seymour-sti eet, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon road. Notting-hill, W.
King. George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3,. Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, Kicg’s-square, Gpswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., care of T. Everitt, Bolders-Hll, Hendon.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University niub, S.W.
Pearce, O. W., F.S.S, 14. Bumley-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29 Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sextan, George, M.A.,M.D, LL.D., &c., 17, Trafaigar-road,[OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederika. Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Cenrral-hill, Upper Norwood.
.Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morel], Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
.Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W.', and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman-chambers. Portman-square, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-stieet, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres¬
pondence)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. (Foreign Corres¬
pondence)
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. Louis Freeman, York-hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adehna Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting. New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko. Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor of the Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne,
Australia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rqe Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 62, Rue de Rome, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ohamps-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. Wit tig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 85, Leipsio.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover- square, two doors from Regent-street.
'R. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Oampden-hill, Kensington.
'R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds'-bush-
W. Please write.
'ESSRS. HARRY BASTIAN and MALCGLM TAY-
lor, Physical and Mental Test Mediums from America. Seances
every evening, except Sunday, at Eight o’clock. Tickets 5s. each. Address
36, Keppel-street, Russell-square.
ISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-
road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica¬
tion by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
iO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
YISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Gdod Attendance at Mrs. JACKSON’S Table cCHote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-sirees, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
WAIN TED, for a Lady Spiritualist, the services of a
YOUTH, under 16, or a very YOUNG GIRL, as Private Secre¬
tary. A good Grammarian indispensable, and one who can also write
French preferred. Address, Hope, care of Mrs. Garraway, 23, Thurloe-
square, S.W.
WANTED by a Married Couple (Spiritualists), with a
little girl, for a permanency, a small HOUSE, or part of a house
(unfurnished), to consist of bedroom, two parlours, and a kitchen. Must
be in good repair, and healthily situated. Vicinity of Highbury, Dalston,
or Hackney Stations (North London Railway), preferred. Rent, inclusive
of all taxes, must be moderate. Letters to be addressed to “Advertiser,’.’
care of Thos. Blytoh, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E.
A GENTLEMAN who is a Spiritualist, and possesses
great healing power, residing in a healthy locality amongst the
Derbyshire hills, having undertaken the charge of a gentleman suffering
from sun stroke, desires to meet with another patient somewhat similarly
affected. Terms moderate. For further particulars apply to “ H ” care of
Mr. F. A. Binney, Solicitor, 22, St. Ann's square, Manchesier.
Mohammed and Mohammedanism • Lectures
delivered at the Royal Insti uti on of Great Britain in February and
March, 1874. By R. BOS WORTH SMITH, M.A. Crown 8vo., 6s.
“ A view of Mohammed’s life and doctrines, perhaps more faithful and
more just than any that has before been published."—Academy.
“ A learned, able, and eloquent volume . . . acute thinking, judicial
reasoning, and eloquent exposiuon.”—S\ otsman.
SPIRITUALISM
FROM A NEUTRAL STANDrPOINT.
A Resume of Evidence—pro and con.
BY H. VENMAN.
Post-free for 13 Stamps.
Ingle & Co., 20, Pimlico-road, London, S.W.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. * To behadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne
and all Australian Booksellers.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 21, 1874
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. G. Atkinson, Esq., P.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; pharles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D. ; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Kev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate.. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and-the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, andfromthis time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and yery sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
Toe best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
AN APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS AND FRIENDS.
T
HE Spiritualists of Sowerby Bridge have, up to the
present time, held their meetings in a cottage at Causeway Head.
This has now been found inadequate, and in order to carry out more pro¬
gressive principles, a new Lyceum has been built to seat about 300 persons in
Hollin’s-lane Sowerby-bridge, along with eight dwellings which are
intended to endow the Lyceum at some future time, when they can be
freed from Mortgage. The Building when complete, will cost above £1,500
of which £1,000 has been obtained on mortgage at the rate of 5 per cent,
per annum, which leaves a debt of over £400. An Appeal to the friends
of Spiritualism is proposed. It is desired that 300 friends will kindly give
£1 each; the remainder will probably be raised at home. Mrs. Cora L.
V. Tappan has kindly consented to open the New Hall, and she heads the
list with a donation of £5. Several friends in the out-district have already
promised £1 each. The Bradford friends are arranging for a benefit of
two Orations to be given by Mr. J. J. Morse, of London, some time in the
month of August.
This is earnestly put before the friends of the movement, as it is impossi¬
ble to borrow money on a School, or Lyceum, owing to the actions of the
School Board. And as this is the first building in the kingdom of Great
Britain, belonging solely to Spiritualism, and as the money will shortly be
due to the various contractors, it is hoped that those who can do something
for the cause will do so. The projectors are all working men, and this is
one of the boldest attempts to carry out the true religion or science of
Spiritualism. It is intended to open the new Lyceum on Sunday,
August 2nd, 1874. .
To those who are not in a position to give the amount, smaller sums may
be sent, and to those who cannot give money, tracts, books, spiritual
periodicals, and back numbers of the London Spiritual papers will be thank¬
fully received. As a library is connected with the Institution, those who
can help with books will do good in many ways. The friends are thankful
for the support and encouragement that have already been given, and
kindly solicit further favour and support.
Donations for this great object can be forwarded to the Secretary,
Henry Lord, Union street. Beech,
July 14th. Sowerby-bridge, Yorkshire.
List already promised.
£ s. d.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan    5 0 0
Twelve other friends £1 each   12 0 0
A Friend at Oldham ...  10 0
A Ditto at Manchester   10 0
H. J. L   20 0 0
National Association of Hpiritualists, London 5 0 0
John Lamont, Liverpool   1 1 0
E. Broadbent  100
J. G 2 0 0
Three Friends   1 12 6
J. Milner     10 0
J. G. and J. S. ...     7 6
Wm. Jackson  2 0 0
E Holt  ... 10 0
Benjamin Swaine, 3rd Donation   1 0 0
A Bath Friend     10 0
Two Spiritualists      ... 4 6
Proceeds from Mr. Tappan's Oration ... 5 10 0
£61 5 6
A parcel of 8 Books and Tracts from James Raistrick, Leeds.
Mr. James Burns has kindly given his services on Sunday, August 9th,
1874, for the benefit of the new Lyceum.
P.S.—The amounts and other gifts will be acknowledged in the London
Spiritualist periodicals.
AAA REWARD.—MASERLYNE & COOKE.
^** *-}" *”^ an expose
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (Iota).
London: E. "W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane.
Price One Penny. ^
Just published, price 2s.
CU RATI YE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campdeu-hill, or from
Bailuere & Co., King "William-street, Strand.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
A GENTLEMAN, formerly Master of a Church Grammar
School, thrown out of occupation through his adoption of
Spiritualism, will be grateful if any brother Spiritualist will put him in
the way, directly or indirectly, of procuring in London, or elsewhere,
employment as PRIVATE SECRETARY, Tutor, Master of School, er
otherwise. Address: Alpha, 18, Atiingworth-street, Brighton.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. "W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
