AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 116.—(Vol. V.—No. 20.) LONDON: NOVEMBER 13j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
Contents.
The Mysterious Man  
A Spirit Message on Providence. Concluded ...     
Messrs. Eglington and Haxby’s Mediumship:—Materialised Spirits—
Type-setting by a Spirit—A Medium Carried through a Closed Door
An Inspirational Address by Mrs. Tappan:—The Nature of Electricity
—The Nature and Uses of Will-power ...    ...   
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Meeting of the Council—
Correspondence—New Members—Mr. Epes Sargent on the National
Association—Legal Questions—Business at Annual Conferences—The
Finance Committee’s Report—Offices for the National Association—
Tine National Association Soiree—The Education of the Children of
Spiritualists  
Father Ignatius a Medium 
Correspondence:—The Black Sheep of Spiritualism, 238; A Defence
of Scientific Spiritualism, 238; Social Meeting of the Marylebone
Association, 239; Mr. Everitt in Bishop Auckland, 239; Private
Seances in Manchester, 239; The Lunacy Laws, 239; Meetings in
Marylebone, 240; Offices for the British National Association  
Answers to Correspondents  it...'  
Paragraphs:—Mr. Morse’s Arrival in America, 23o\; Burning a Witch
in Effigy       ...    ...
240
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 26 Viet, cap. 89 )
42, POULTRY (CORNER OF OLD JEWRY), LONDON.
SIMPLE FORM OF ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
if preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
Trustees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray. Bart., James White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murray, Bart. (Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
William Berry, Esq., John Brown, Esq., Courtenay Clarke, Esq., Arthur
lago, Esq., Lord Frederick H. Kerr, M. E. Marsden, ELi., it i>. Martin,
Esq., M.A., F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White, Esq.,
Major J. C. Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Actuaries.
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.C.S., England. .
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss.
Auditors.—Robert Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffin, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffin).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.R.S.
CLASS.
‘ A. B ” Insuring a sum
if Killed, and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
1 A.” Death only.
‘ B." Weekly Allow¬
ance only.
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
I Total Partial
Disable- Disable¬
ment. ment.
£ £ s. d.
1000 600
500 3 0 0
250 1 10 0
100 X 00
1000
500
0 0
0 0
£ s. d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
1 10 0
fi 18 0
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
£ s. d.
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18.0
0 10 0
110
0 11 6
2 0
3 0
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
12 6
0.12 6
Paymt
within
TwqY) s
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
12 6
0 12 6
A&ENT—MR. THOMAS BLYTON,
12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on he shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
beral discount for cash.
BEYERIDGtE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’SkRENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
SPIRITUALISTS.
OF
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested lo communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon
application.
N.B.—THE SUBSCRIPTION FOR THE CURRENT YEAR, 1874, WILL NOT BE
CLAIMED FROM MEMBERS JOINING AFTER THIS DATE.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
ILL hold a SOIREE, on the 3rd DECEMBER, at the
CO-OPERATIVE HALL, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
All Spiritualist friends, many of whom have been dispersed, during the-
summer and autumn, are invited to a friendly and sociable winter
gathering.
The ladies of the Association will preside at the tea-tables. Volunteers
are requested to send in their names to the Hon. Secretary.
J. M. GULLY, Esq., M.D., in the chair.
Tea served at 6.30. Chair to be taken at 8 o’clock.
Admission—to include tea, Is. 6d. After 7.3?., 6d. Eight Is. 6d. tickets
for 10s.
Tickets to be had of Mr. George Farmer, 4, Kingsgate-street. Holbom
W. C., of Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W., of Mrs
Maltby, 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, and of Mr
J. W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town.
Friends are requested to take tickets in advance, as money cannot be re¬
ceived at the doors. E. Kislingbury,
Algernon Joy,
> lien. Secs.
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
BY MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
There will be 36 Lectures, delivered on Sunday Evenings, commencing
October 25th, and ending in June next, divided into courses of
Twelve Lectures,
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-Street, Regent-street, London. Doors open at 6.30;
Commence at 7 p.m.
Committee.
A lexander Calder, Esq.. The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.—Chairman.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.; Dr.
Gully, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.: Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.; Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlahds. Wimbledon Common,
S.W.; Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.; G. N. Strawbridge,
Esq., and Mrs. Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s Inn-square, W.C.
(lion. Secretary and Treasurer.)
A subscriber of £5 will be entitled for the whole series to a reserved
seat for himself and friend.
Tickets to admit one person for a course of 12 lectures only, will be
issued at 24s., and 12s. each.
There will be a limited number of 6d. seats.
Tickets to be obtained of the Treasurer, Mr. Webster Glynes, 4, Gray's
inn-square, on application enclosing post office order.
Single Tickets sold at the doors.
Persons desirous of obtaining seats are requested to come early.
The hymns used in the service will be taken from the “ Spiritual Lyre,”
sold at the doors.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane..
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
; FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
11
THE SPIHlTTJALiST.
Hov. 13, 1874.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
President.—James Was on, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Rnssell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lament, Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. Q-. Wharmhy, Mr. Dinsdale, Mr. R. Casson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Riece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs.
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Clay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
TBUBHER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON'.. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition.
Post 8vo„ p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 466, cloth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.”—Saturday Review.
THE object of tbis Association, is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology. .
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. {Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarinq-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly; 6s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 6s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
Animal magnetism and magnetic* lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
cr. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,’’&c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co,, Patemoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Baillirre & Co., King William-street, Strand.
Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d., or with gilt edges 4s.
THE ANGELS.
CONTENTS.
1.—What are Angels ? II.—The Origin of Angels, III.—Seership, IV.—
The Intermediate State. V.—Will the natural body rise ? VI.—What do the
Angels do? (1). For men on earth; (2) For spirits in the world of spirits;
(3) In Heaven.
James Speirs, 36, Bloomsbury-street, London.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a new Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—■
. 308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Mai thus Notwithstanding—Non-Survival
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig
niflcance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90', cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubner & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill. 
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKE BYSTREET, W.
A discussion will take place at above address as follows:—
Wednesday, Nov. ll<A—“ Atheism, its influence on Society.” Opened by
Mr. Cain.
November, 18<A—“The Theological Devil,” Opened by Mr. Freehold.
November, 25th.—“ Readings from the Poets, &c., &c.”
1 December, 2nd.—“Astrology—Is it true?” Opened by Mr. T. W.
Shearing.-
December, dih.—u Protestantism and Prostitution.” Opened by Mr. G.
F. Tilby.
Charles Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W. '
TWO weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—/See Advertisement.
A discussion class on Wednesday evenings. All friends, whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and precious truths of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, Ac., are lent to read.
   Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary'.
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
FT!HE TWO DISCOVERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
JL SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of ;the most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp., 8vo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIRITUAL DEPARTMENT contains the confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the .path of duty; also the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual-existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematieal discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
schools.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
“PINE’S SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH.”
HIS is so popular that orders are coining in rapidly
from all parts of the Queendom. So send your orders as soon as
possible, accompanied with a P. O. order, as follows:—For No. 1, £2 7s. 6d,
No. 2, £1 12s. 6d; No. 3, 17s. 6d.; No. 4, 10s.; addressed to CLEMENT
PINE, Taunton-road, Bridgwater.
N.B.—The above prices include a box (2s. 6d.) in which are full instruc¬
tions, returnable as therein directed, excepting the No. 4. All orders will
be executed in rotation as promptly as possible.   
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ TheBanner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass. U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Three Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
HENRY B. B U S H,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for YAe/SfuntwaWif Newspaper.
ttjj Jrugrm Httit ul]
VOJ.UJVIE FIVE. F(UJVIBEF( TWENTY.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13th, 1874.
Spintwalxsl lllfajsgrapiJr.
Established in 1869.
(CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
y and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Uokrespondbnoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E'.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in theprovinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street, jfr
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. B. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78. Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bfunswick-street.
Bicbmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Biley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, .Ave Maria-lane,. St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is ISs., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
JpEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporal^ Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
THE MYSTERIOUS MAN;
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sib,—The following narrative has been submitted to
me, and I forward it to you (with the assent of. the
writer), as a further interesting contribution to the
literature of a subject of immense interest and im¬
portance. I ought perhaps to add that the writer is a
young lady of gentle birth and high culture—that she
has never seen a professional medium in her life, and
that her experiences are confined to what she herself
has seen, heard, and felt.
Those who have the privilege of knowing her, are
persuaded that she is as incapable of inventing her
experiences as of exaggerating them.
The ignorant and the senile, and persons of no higher
mental capacity than the writer of the twaddle about
££ Spiritualism” in the last number of a publication
called The New Quarterly Magazine, will no doubt find
a ready solution of the mysteries she describes ; but it
is satisfactory to find that the thoughtful, the educated,
and the unprejudiced are rapidly beginning to admit
that a great scientific truth underlies these synchronal
phenomena. Henby M. Dunphy.
3, Essex-court, Temple.
Nov. 9.
At the imminent risk of being held up to ridicule, I
venture to set forth here a few simple facts. The
subject of apparitions having lately evoked a good deal
of discussion, I am led to think that the following
recital may not be uninteresting to the thoughtful few
who think these “modern mysteries” worthy of inves¬
tigation.
I do not attempt to put forward any theory upon the
subject. It is one far beyond my comprehension.
What has occurred I shall simply record, and that as
consecutively as possible.
Since the 10th or 12th of September last, I have
been residing in London. I am an Irishwoman, have
comparatively few friends or acquaintances here, have
never been to a seance in London; nor, to my knowledge,
have I ever spoken to a Spiritualist since leaving
Ireland. When in Dublin, my house was about two
miles to the north of the city. One afternoon in the
June of 1869, I came home about four o’clock and
entered the sitting-room, where sat my mother sewing;
doing something to a dress which ! was to wear at
a croquet party that evening. I felt very tired and
overcome with the heat, so she left the room to get me
a cup of tea. Our house was built in cottage style, my
bedroom opening off the hall. A short passage led to
it, and as I was going in to take off my out-of-doors
dress, I distinctly saw the figure of a man standing in
the doorway, about a couple of yards away from
me. The figure seemed to pass the doorway, and
go into the room. I was not much frightened. I felt
I more puzzled, for it seemed to me to be a gentleman
230
THE SPIRITUALIST.
whom I had seen in Dublin only a few hours previously.
I did not enter the room; but going straight to
my mother, asked her if Mr. T—p were in the house.
Naturally enough, she considered I was talking very
great nonsense, and told me so plainly. Nevertheless,
to set my mind at rest, she came into the room with
me, but there was nothing to be seen. That evening, I
could not shake off a strange, drowsy feeling which
crept over me, and I have a shrewd suspicion that
I was voted undeniably stupid. I may mention, that
the gentleman whom I thought I saw, has since, un¬
fortunately, lost his reason.
Except my mother, no one then knew anything about
the circumstance I have just related. I did not see the
figure again; but, from that date, I began to have an
uneasy sensation of never being alone, of being con¬
stantly watched. I have always been a bad sleeper*
and about this time used to wake suddenly at night and
feel that if I only could see that there certainly was
“ something” standing by my bedside. I never dared
to put my hands outside the bed-clothes for fear of
touching other hands. Literally my life was becoming
unbearable. I was afraid to sit in a room by myself,
and suffered unspeakable horrors if left alone in the
dark. "When a girl of thirteen or fourteen I narrowly
escaped being blind. My recovery is due to the kind¬
ness and skill of two of the most eminent oculists in
Dublin. One of these gentlemen, Mr. W—, always
prescribes for me, and to him I applied for something
to induce sleep. I have since deeply regretted that I
did not confide in him at once, and tell him about the
apparition. But a foolish feeling of shame kept me
silent, set Mr. W— at sea as to what could be the
matter with me, and so some months passed away,
during which time I never saw anything bordering
upon the supernatural.
Early in the winter of the same year—1869—I sat
in my bedroom one morning, writing. I was not think¬
ing of the apparition, my mind being fully engrossed
with a most matter-of-fact subject. Suddenly I felt
frightened, and the distracting sensation of some
“ presence ” crept over me. In terror I was about to
rise and rush from the room, when, upon turning round,
I saw standing beside me the figure of a man. There
was nothing alarming in the apparition. It was that
of a man of middle height, not young, with a short
brown beard, moustache, and a brown appearance
generally. The face had a grave, rather pleasing ex¬
pression. The hands were loosely folded in front, and
the eyes were looking, not at, but beyond me. I have
never, to my knowledge, seen any one like the figure.
Eright hindered me from leaving the room, and, sitting
down on the floor by my bedside, I shut my eyes.
When I opened them the figure was gone. Again I
told my mother, and again we agreed to keep it secret,
fearing the shafts of ridicule. ' During the winter I
saw the apparition several times, and upon each occa¬
sion was almost paralysed with terror. But at that
time I never saw it very distinctly; indeed, I do not
think I saw below where the hands were crossed in
front. The dress seemed to be a suit of ordinary brown
clothes.
As spring came on,’ I was perpetually haunted by
this figure. One Saturday night I sat up late reading,
after the household had gone to bed. I was deeply in¬
terested in my book, which was a humorous one; not
one by any means calculated to induce a lugubrious
frame of mind. It may also be well to mention that I
Nov. A3, 1874.
am not at all of a foolishly-sentimental or lachrymose
disposition. Nevertheless, as the time wore on, I be¬
came frightened, so much so that I did not like the idea
of having to leave the room and go through the house
alone. At last I summoned up sufficient courage to
take the lamp in my hand and enter the hall; I have
before mentioned that there was a passage leading
thence to my bedroom. As I stood at the entrance
leading from the hall, the apparition came out of my
bedroom. I fell down; of course dropping the lamp,
which was smashed. Eortunately my mother was
awake, heard the noise, and came to the rescue.
I do not know why it was, but that appearance
certainly made more impression upon me than any of
the previous ones. I felt very ill and nervous the next
day; and when some relatives called after church and
noticed that I did not look as well as usual, I could not
resist telling them all I had suffered from the June
before. They took a sensible view of the matter, and
said I at once ought to tell Mr. W—. Acting upon
their advice I saw him the next day, and told him all.
At once he insisted upon our leaving the house where
we were then living. In a few weeks we removed to
a larger and airier residence; during the interval I saw
no apparition.
In either March or April, 1870, there was a distri¬
bution of prizes to the children of the Masonic Female
Orphan School. The fUe was held in the Dublin
Exhibition Palace. I was there in company with
some relations. I can truthfully say I never was
enjoying myself more; and most assuredly was not
thinking of the apparition. However, in the midst of
the proceedings, my heart began to beat violently, and,
looking up I saw—coming towards me, through the crowd
—the figure of the man I was accustomed to see at home.
I was obliged to be removed from the concert-hall,
where I was sitting, and brought to another part of
the building.
I cannot recall the many times—for they are in¬
numerable—upon wjiich I have seen this figure.
Suffice to say, Mr. W— and another eminent medical
man have kindly talked to me, and tried to reason
with me concerning it. They have taken the trouble
to explain to me that it is the outcome of overwork and
anxiety. Moreover, that my having, even yet, defective
vision in one eye, ibay all combine to render me the
victim of an unpleasant optical illusion. They have
never ridiculed me; so I have told Mr. "W— openly of
every feeling and circumstance connected with jt. He
is au courant with the whole affair, up to the moment I
write; for, even since I have come to London, he has
not ceased his watchful care, and has done all that
skill and friendship can suggest.
From September last until the beginning of April,
I never saw the figure distinctly. Twice I thought I
saw it, but I could not be sure. I sometimes felt very
nervous, but must candidly confess I felt none of the
abject terror I felt in Ireland. In March, Mr. W—
called to see me, and we mutually rejoiced over the
disappearance of my mysterious man. But about the
beginning of April, as I sat reading one evening alone, I
heard something like the shuffling of feet, and, looking
up, there stood the figure at the other side of the table,
having all the appearance of having come there in
breathless haste. I never before saw it so vividly. I
could tell every fold of the dress, could almost fancy
I could raise them; could hardly persuade myself that
it was not a real, breathing human being. I have an
THE SPIRITUALIST.
231
Nov. 13, 1874.
impression that it tried to speak to me ; but whether
I lost consciousness for a moment, or whether it faded
at once I cannot say. I only know that it went.
After seeing it, I felt I could not stay in that house
any longer ; | and in a few days removed to the other
side of London. Por several weeks was I in my new
quarters without seeing the apparition, until one day
I suddenly stood face to face with it, when it seemed
to be in the same breathless haste as on the former occa¬
sion. A few days afterwards, I was not feeling very
bright, and lay down to rest upon my bed, which faces the
door. It was about seven or eight in the evening, and
the place was very still. I had not lain there more
than a few minutes, when I heard myself called, in a
clear, ringing voice, which echoed throughout the
house. I also heard footsteps upon the stairs. So
distinct were voice and footsteps, that I never for one
moment doubted but that some one in the house wanted
me; and, starting up into a sitting posture, I hastily
answered, “Yes?” Immediately the handle of the
door was turned, the door was thrown violently open,
but there was nobody there. Two days afterwards, as
I sat in my bedroom, writing letters, the door was
thrown violently open, and the apparition I am accus¬
tomed to see suddenly stood by the open door. The
next morning, about] three or four o’clock, I lay awake,
knowing, from the strange feeling which crept over
me, that something was about to happen. And it did
happen. My name was again called: the feet advanced
up the stairs, the door was thrown open, then shut,
but I did not see anything.
The next day I felt very restless, and could* not settle
to work of any kind. I went, in the afternoon, to a
relative living near Regent’s-park, and told her about
it. As we sat talking, a knocking came to the sitting-
room door; but upon opening it there was no one
there. I went to her bedroom to take oif my walking
dress; the knocking came to the door of that room
also, but yet there was nothing to be seen. Several
times since has the apparition appeared to me. One
evening lately, I was at the house of the relative I
have just mentioned. She, her husband, and I were
sitting laughing and chatting, when three distinct knocks
came to the door. We all heard them. Shortly after¬
wards I looked towards the door, and there saw the
figure of the man in brown clothes.
The foregoing is a mere outline of a few facts, ex¬
tremely unpleasant ones to me. When in Dublin I was
at a seance a few times, but must candidly admit I never
saw or heard anything there calculated to induce me to
pin my faith to Spiritualism. Rather the reverse. I
should, however, mention that one evening during the
seance I suddenly became powerless, and fell against
the lady sitting next to me. I was not unconscious,
for I distinctly recollected every means used to restore
me. The feeling I experienced was something like the
sensation of quietude and languor which one feels when
an opiate is beginning to take effect.
Seeing that lately so many clear-headed men, whose
veracity no one would dare to impugn, have taken up
the subject as one worthy of investigation, I have
ventured to give these experiences. No thought of
writing them presented itself to my mind until this
afternoon in June, when it was suggested to me that I
should add my quota to the general stock of facts.
Their truthfulness can be vouched for by any one, or
all of the friends herein referred to.
A SPIRIT MESSAGE ON PROVIDENCE.
(Concluded.')
I have pointed out to you the self-evident fact that mind is
infinitely superior to matter. The one is a passive agent,
“unsusceptible of any one spontaneous act, or of a single
creative initiative, neither possessing volition, self-motion,
consciousness,independence, responsibility, nor power. Accord¬
ingly, we see that the mite, man, can master the most curious
and dangerous elements, turn even the most subtle and intan¬
gible of forces to his use, remove or cut through mountains,
dig channels for the sea, and thus unite oceans ; in a word,
everywhere and always dominate matter, and demonstrate
his superiority over it on every occasion, and in every form.
It is logically and tangibly evident, likewise, that worlds
are made for men, not men for worlds. A rational deduction,
for the master can never be made for the benefit of the ser¬
vant, but rather the servant for the master. No doubt there
is a reciprocal benefit, the universal action and reaction, but
still the subservient distribution of parts is observed. You
perceive how perfect is the equity and benevolence of God.
Matter is inherently subservient to spirit. But there is no
injustice here, for it suffers nothing by its inherent inferiority.
It is unconscious, insensible, and unreasoning. Hence it is in
no wise affected by either good or evil, inferiority, or supe¬
riority, subjection, or domination.*
The moment consciousness, reason (or instinct, which is
simply reason, yet undeveloped, and limited by a lower
physical organisation), and feeling render these differences
perceptible, they become at once dependent on our own merits
and demerits.
There is no soul excluded from the highest departments of
progress, and the sublimest glories of ascensional power and
perfections, for any other cause or through any other disabi¬
lities than those superinduced by their own shortcomings and
evil propensities.
To return, however, to my theme in its main branches. I
have pointed out to you that spirit is in every respect superior
to matter, which only plays throughout the universe the part
of its slave; hence that all worlds, being composed of matter,
either ponderable or imponderable, are made for spirits, not
spirits for worlds.
It matters not how etherealised matter may and does become,
the insuperable barrier between the two consists in the divine
essence, or vital spark. The ponderability or imponderability
of either are irrelevant questions.
Could spirit be as gross as the grossest known substance, it
would still be superior to the latter in the order of creation,
simply on the score of its being spirit, however low it might
rank in the score of spiritual entities ; for the lowest degree
of the spiritual ladder commences at the apex of the ascend¬
ing scale of matter. The difference lies in the essence, not
the degree. The one is a portion of the divine breath, the
other a substance emanating from the divine will, a lifeless
creation; the first is a part and parcel of the divine life.f
God could not impart life unless £te gave it from His own
vital and divine essence. Life is divine. All else may be
created out of nothing by a simple exercise of the divine voli¬
tion. Life can only be derived from life; hence, you perceive,
the same rule obtains throughout the world, because the sole
principle of life is the Godhead.
Under these circumstances, it follows that matter and spirit
differ in the fundamental principle of the created and the
increate, the divine and the human, and it is in this mystic
sense that the bounty of God has given Himself to the uni¬
verse to be crucified in the human form, through all the mani¬
fold vicissitudes and sufferings of terrestrial and spiritual
existence, brought on by the deviations of human blindness
and evil.
It is this divine principle within which retains the intuition
of good and evil, of truth and falsehood which constitute
conscience, and keep alive the knowledge of God and immor¬
tality. It is this which, like the river to its source, tends con¬
stantly upwards, and which rebels against the fetters of the
flesh, and feels its own degradation when the animal tendencies,
* I commend this explanation to the cogitation of that large majority
who so irrationally believe that it is possible for a Divine Being to create
inferior but innocent beings (animals), exquisitely susceptible to suffering
both moral and physical, subjected to a ruthless domination, and every
variety of cruelty, without providing for them the sole possible compen¬
sation, a progressive and blessed future life.
t The spirit affirms that all life, being divine, it hence contains within
itself ail the germs of possible angelic development, and is necessarily
sempiternal, God being able to communicate life, by imparting His essence,
not creating it.
232
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Hoy. 13, 1874.
by being permitted to reign over us, obtain the upper hand,
and plunge us from one abyss of degradation into another.
When, however, reason is cultivated, and all spiritual and
intellectual gifts nurtured, it is this which makes us like unto
gods; which vindicates our divine origin, brings us ever nearer
and nearer to our celestial destinies, makes us the true children
of God the Father, and gathers round us our elder brethren
the hosts of the seraphic choirs, while it draws down upon us
ever more and more the grace of our Heavenly Father, or
what is synonymous His special providence and love.*
Thus you perceive I am coming to the third moot point, the
importance, in His eyes, of an individual soul. This depends
solely on quality, not quantity. I have shown you that an
entire globe, no matter what its contents of square miles of
sea and land, or what its density or ethereality of ponderable
or imponderable matter, is in reality utterly worthless other¬
wise than as a means to an end, and that end the subservience
to the necessities and uses of incarnated or unincarnated
spirits; in other words as an agent for their development and
ultimate happiness.
I now proceed to show you that the importance of souls, on
the same principle, must proceed from their intrinsic qualities,
or essence, i.e.t not on their bulk or their number, for this
would be again reversing the argument, and giving the prefer¬
ence to the inferior matter over spirit. Could the numbers of
souls be the criterion of spiritual importance, it would be a
simple question of the quantity of spiritual essence, not its
quality.
As well might you deem that a giant were preferable to a
pigmy in celestial eyes, as that any number of souls could over¬
balance a single soaring and superior soul in the scales of divine
justice. I proceed to prove this postulate by a few simple
arguments and parallels susceptible of bringing the evidence
home to you in a tangible, practical form.
First of all, what does the world show, and experience
prove ? First, that like seeks like, and that superiority alone
appreciates superiority, always supposing that jealousy, spite,
self-interest, and all other base human weaknesses, are out of
the question, and likewise understanding that the running of
the common class after celebrities must not be classed as
genuine appreciation, but simply as servility.
No one can possibly appreciate what they do not understand,
and have neither taste nor capacity for, and that is always
the case of the mass where genius is concerned.
To resume,- it is therefore only the superior who have
capacity enough to understand and appreciate the superior.
All other apparent appreciation is a pure delusion or a sham,
palmed off either upon self or the public. Hence we see that
the society sought by the superior is that of their fellows, and
that—supposing them to be free from all the weaknesses and
passions of humanity—those they would set above millions
and prefer to all the princes and potentates of earth, and whom
they in reality value far above the embattled hosts of medio¬
crity, are the solitary individuals distinguished by intellect and
talents of a high calibre.
Thus, ask yourself, and all such as you, which they think
most of-—whom they would select to honour, protect, and
love ? whom they would crown with glory, and place on the
thrones of the world ? whom they would gather to their home
and make their associates and their friends? whose suffrage
they value and whose homage they court? whose love, and
gratitude, and appreciation they value ? Whether it would be
the empty acclamations of the vulgar million, or that of the
select few, the chosen ones of men and spirits; the soaring
souls who know what they worship, and why they worship;
those who alone can grace the highest places, and elaborate
the great problems of art and science ; those who embellish
all they touch, ennoble all they breathe upon, illumine all they
shine upon ; those, in a word, who beam with all the antici¬
pated glories of their seraphic destinies, and exhale all the
fragrance of their angelic homes, or those befouled with all the
slime of their earthly sty, and stinking with all the fetor of
the dunghills they love to wallow in. f
Say, then, can it be the number or the mass of souls which
adds to their value in tho eyes of God. Is not everything
precious in proportion to its intrinsic qualities and rarity, not
to its number or its mass ?
Is not the tiniest piece of gold worth a bushel of grains of
* This love, according to my spirits, is stated to become even more and
more active and special accordingly as souls become more and more de¬
serving of it.
I The spirits do not menager their expressions on principle; they affirm
that the euphemistic politeness of modern language is responsible for ha'f
the basenesses of society, which would scarcely dare to look its vices in the
face were they called by their proper names.
sand ? Is not the Kohinoor worth ever so many gems of ten
or twenty times its bulk? and could you not obtain any
number of ship-loads of iron, or lead, or coal for its purchase-
money ?
Where, then, lies the importance of a soul, or souls ? Is not
the golden or the diamond spirit a jewel worthier of care and
love, and polishing, and precious setting, than all the myriads
of wooden and leaden, and other low class souls, which con¬
stitute the multitude throughout the universe ?
Where, then, lies the importance of the many over the few,
of the mass over the individual ? Or shall God alone form an
exception to the laws of logic, and all the tendencies and
affinities of spirits of a superior order? Is not this a direct con¬
tradiction to all the conclusions of reason and all the demon¬
strations of experience ?
Shall not He rather, who is the source and culmination of
all logic and of all spiritual superiority, carry out their con¬
clusions and affinities to an infinitely higher and more absolute
extent than either men or spirits ?
If, then, they love, cherish, protect, attract, exalt, and asso¬
ciate themselves in preference with all they deem highest and
most susceptible of being developed to the higher grades of
perfection, shall God alone follow the rule of the unintelligent ?
Shall He, like the savage or the fool, prefer the bulk to the
quality? Or shall he not rather, as we see in all things,
approximate to himself all that which is noblest, consequently
all that is most spiritual ? Can you for an instant suppose
that a thousand, a billion, or a trillion of the low caste indi¬
viduals* of whom the great majority of mankind are com¬
posed, would weigh in his scales one fraction in the balance
against an angel or a demigod ? Do you suppose that those
you do not deem good company for you, can be good company
for God ?
You say that many who are honoured here could obtain but
kicks and cuffs elsewhere, and vice versa. Very true, were
your standard of excellence that of civilised society, but it is
not. You value mind and heart, genius and elevated character,
talent, industry, all those higher qualifications which are in¬
trinsic to the individual; and these are the standard of excel¬
lence in spirit eyes, no less than in yours. You may often be
deceived, and constantly are. You cannot discern the capabi¬
lities and higher intuitions which some souls, very grovelling
in their present existence, may yet develops through their
future trials and education; but rest assured that were all
those you spurn as base as you deem them, they might bring
any number to the jury, from a million to a myriad,f and fail
to rank in the eyes of God, or His spirit court, for the value of
an infinitesimal portion of one seraphic soul.
Now, although there are numbers among those you spurn
who are susceptible of retrieving their shortcomings at a
future period, the vast majority will always be the inferior,
who are only susceptible of being purified from evil, so as
to be ultimately good and happy, but who have had and will
have so little ambition for higher things, and so little in¬
dustry, that they will be eternally incapable of attaining to
seraphic glories. You may well deem therefore that any
number of these spirits will rank far below a single embryo
seraph, or child of God, in his divine appreciation.
You perceive, therefore, the conclusion of my argument. It
is the quality of souls, not their quantity, which constitutes
their real importance, both as concerns their personal value
and the work they are susceptible of performing, i. e., the-
good they may do, and the results it is in their power
to achieve.
Where, then, is the insignificance of individuals ? Only
when they are of a low order are they insignificant. One
embryo seraph i*, and must be, more in His eyes, and more
attractive of His grace and providence than entire nations
and generations of vulgarians.
It follows, then, as an ultimate, that souls being more im¬
portant than worlds, and a single soul of a higher order alto¬
gether more important and interesting to God than any
number of mediocre ones, the supposed unimportance of indi¬
viduals is entirely unfounded.
In a word, the insignificance or importance of a soul wholly
depends upon its qualities, aspirations, and capacities, and
while His providence must watch over all, it follows likewise,
as a logical sequence, that it will always become more special
and fostering wherever His love and grace are attracted
most, and His nurturing care will there produce the greatest
results.
* Morally and intellectually speaking.
+ Tne spirit uses the word m its poetical acceptation of unlimited
numbers.
‘THE SPIBITUALIST.
233
Nov. 13, 1874.
MESSRS. EGLINGTON AND HAXBY’S MEDIUMSHIP.
MAIEEIA1TSED SPIEITS—TYPE-SETTING BY A SPIEIT—A
MEDIUM CAEEIED THKOUGH A CLOSED DOOE.
Last Saturday night a seance was held at 45, West-
moreland-place, City-road, London, with the new non¬
professional mediums, whose powers were described in
The Spiritualist a fortnight ago. On the present occa¬
sion Mr. Eglington and Mr. William Haxby sat for
materialised forms for the second time in their lives,
and the results were highly successful. Mr. and Mrs.
John Davis, Miss Keeves the trance speaker, and
several regular members of the circle were present,
so also were Mr. H. M. Dunphy and Mr. W. H.
Harrison.
The seance took place in a room at the back of the
garden, and detached from the house. It was easily
examined, for it contained only a table and a few
forms it had bare, whitewashed walls, with no cup¬
boards or recesses. A lath about two yards long was
nailed from wall to wall across a corner of the room, and
from this lath two black curtains were suspended;
thus there was no top to the cabinet, and its only con¬
tents were two light bedroom chairs.
Before the fifteen or sixteen spectators had taken
their seats, three of the mediums were entranced, and
moving about very much as mesmeric sensitives do when
under the will of a “ biological” lecturer. Mr.
Eglington, who is a printer’s compositor, seventeen or
eighteen years of age, was under the control of a spirit
who calls himself “Joey,” who says that he was a
young American clown ; under this lively influence the
medium was made to walk about with Jiis legs wide
apart, and with a swaying motion, much as grooms
and stable-boys do, and he loudly demanded that “ the
mediums should be searched.” The mediums under
influence (Messrs. Eglington, Haxby, and Shrewsbree)
were swaying about in the middle of the room, and all
at once began emptying their pockets of their con¬
tents, which they threw in a heap on the floor, the
halfpence rolling about, after which they turned all the
pockets of their coats, waistcoats, and trousers inside
out, pulled their coats half off, and asked anybody who
pleased to feel them all over to see that they had
nothing bulky about them, which invitation was ac¬
cepted by some of the spectators. Mr. Eglington and
Mr. Wm. Haxby then took their seats on the chairs in
the cabinet, and the spirit Joey asked Mr. Dunphy to
lock the room door and put the key in his pocket, which
was done. Mr. Haxby appears to be about fifteen years
of age, and ft brother to the assistant secretary to the
National Association of Spiritualists.
Joey, who appears to have practical ideas, and to
do all his work in a sensible, expeditious way, then
gave certain instructions. He said that the lights must
be put out, that the spirits would materialise themselves
in the darkness, and when he (Joey) gave four knocks,
Mr. Davis was to strike a match, or several matches at
once if he liked; the time would soon come when they
would be able to bear the full light of a bull’s-eye
lantern. Directly the light was struck, another person
was to slowly count five, When Mr. Davis was at once
to extinguish the light, or he would injure the mediums,
and they (the spirits) would give no more manifestations.
Joey then called for a rehearsal to see that everybody
understood the conditions; the amount of light permitted
was that made by striking three lucifer matches at
once, so the illumination was good.
The light was then extinguished, the members of the
circle were instructed to sing, and after the lapse
of five or ten minutes, Joey called for a light; an inky
black object was then seen projecting above the top of
the cabinet, behind the lath which supported the
curtains; it looked like a cocked hat; Joey said that no
less illustrious a personage than Napoleon Bonaparte
was trying to show himself, and would make another
attempt. When the light was struck again, a dusky
coloured head, neither white nor black, with an im¬
mensely large forehead, looked out between the
curtains; the features were not clearly seen.
Next, a man with a turban on, and with a face of
beautifully clear complexion was distinctly seen; he
had beard and moustaches. The same face, or one
much like it, showed itself two or three times; then a
full form, robed in an abundance of pure white drapery,
was seen for five seconds, in a good light, standing at
the central opening of the curtains. The instant the
light was out, Joey said, “ Strike the light again!” Not a
quarter of a minute was lost in doing so, and the two me¬
diums in trance were then seen holding the curtains back
so as to show themselves and the whole of the interior of
the cabinet; the two slim youths were in a deep trance,
swaying about on their seats, and swinging their legs,
and Joey was speaking volubly, in a squeaking voice,
through the lips of Mr. Eglington; not a trace of white
drapery was to be seen.
A lady friend of Miss Keeves who was present was a
seeing medium, and her vision was so far not subjective,
that she knew so well at what part of the cabinet the
next head would show itself, that she could tell before
the light was struck. She said that she saw each
spirit materialising. She saw a cloud form and con¬
dense between the two media, above their shoulders,
and gradually take the human form; a blacker cloud
then came in front, and condensed into black hair and
beard; then down came a cloud of silvery whiteness
over the whole, forming itself into drapery.
A dark seance round the table was next held, all the
sitters holding each other’s hands, and those of the
mediums. The ordinary manifestations were obtained,
musical instruments floated and played, a bell was
carried all round the circle, outside it, and nearly all
the sitters were touched with spirit hands. As the
bell neared Mr. Harrison he turned so that he could
see the wall very faintly illuminated at one part by a
little stray light from the window; when the bell came
between him and the faintly luminous background, he
saw the outline of an arm and of a robed human form;
he thinks that the form (not the arm) was above the
normal human size, and cloudy, something like the
cloud in one of Mr. Beattie’s spirit photographs, where
the mist appears to be half condensed into a human
figure. The light was so faint, however, that he re¬
cords the observation as a somewhat doubtful one.
The members of the circle tell wonderful things
about Joey bringing articles long distances to the circle.
One evening, they state, a composing-stick was left on
Mr. Eglington’s frame; Joey brought it to a seance
three and a half miles away that same evening; Joey
had set it to another measure, and sdt some type in it,
from the words of which the following is a quotation.
Joey is a lively spirit, who, to use his own words, likes
“ a jolly good lark—rather !” and his style of composi¬
tion is somewhat juvenile :—
Joey.—Grandmother,—I would wish to speak to you very
earnestly now. I really do like you, but I am at a great loss to
show my feelings towards you. More anon to you. Grand¬
father, old boy, I also like you very much, and would very
234
THE SPIRITUALIST.
much like to repay you for your kindness to the mediums by
showing myself in the photographs, hut I find that it is
impossible. Mr. , is industry better than idleness ? I am
not reproaching you, but I really should like you to employ
your busy brain. I should help you as I do the medium.
Mrs. , I do not wish to reproach you either, but you must
remember there is a Higher Power above even us that rules all
things. Do not be selfish. Good-bye, old ones. Now the
young ones. I promise the medium, for waiting so patiently,
and working so earnestly, that I will let him be unconscious at
Christmas, when I shall materialise myself. Dear Primrose
and Rose, because the medium likes you so do I like you. I
must now conclude, I have borrowed my medium’s head to do
this. God bless you all, ladies especially, Joey.-
More than once, so the regular members of the circle
state, Mr. Eglington has been carried through the
closed door of the seance room, at Mr. John Davis’s,
11, Underwood-street, City-road; once he was dropped
in the passage outside, on another occasion he found
himself two streets off, when he awoke to conscious¬
ness. The room was full, and some of the sitters were
seated with the backs of their chairs against the door
at the time.
AN INSPIRATIONAL ADDRESS BY MRS. TAPPAN.
Last Sunday night Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan delivered an
inspirational address at the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-
street, Regent-street, London, under the presidency of Mr.
Algernon Joy. A highly intellectual body of listeners filled
the hall to the doors.
Mr. Joy read a chapter from the Bible, after which a hymn
was sung.
Mrs. Tappan then passed into the trance state, and uttered
the following prayer :—Our Father, Thou Infinite Soul, Thou
Divine and Perfect Spirit, Thou who from the past unto the
future knoweth all things, (whose spirit is supreme, whose
knowledge abideth for ever, whose laws are unchangeable,
Thou that lighteth the firmament with thy glory, shine upon
the human spirit like a light amid the darkness of Time.
O Thou great abiding Spirit, we turn to Thee with thanks¬
givings of praise, and lay them upon the altar of Thy love, as
the stars lay theiF offerings of light upon Thy universe.
Even as the earth brings to the shrine of Thy being all the
offerings of its abundance, so would we gather together the
ripened sheaves of the glowing altar of praise, and lay them
upon the altar of Thy love. Whatever thought the human
mind can possess, Thou hast foreseen and foreshadowed, and
every deed shapes itself to perfection or imperfection, even ,as
the light burns within the spirit. May Thy light burn
brightly, till all envy, hatred, and malice shall be consumed,
and only love and peace, and harmony prevail for evermore
among the children of the earth.
THE NATtritE OE ELECTRICITY.
Many questions relating to the discourse of the previous
week were sent up in writing to the Chairman, and put to the
entranced speaker. They appeared from their nature to
have been written by scientific men, but as the chairman did
not mention names, we do not know the authors of any of
them. Mrs. Tappan answered them consecutively. In answer
to a question as to what was the nature of electricity passing
along a wire, she said:—The questioner cannot understand
electricity, or he would not ask. The wire is first charged with
electricity, then it is ready to transmit messages. Place a row
of bricks on end and give a jar to the first, the motion will be
transmitted along the line till the last one is knocked over.
It is not the particles of the wire itself, but particles within
the wire which vibrate to the electric force; these atoms
thoroughly permeate the wire, and the sender of the message
produces a certain kind of motion among them like charging
a row of tiles. The electrical particles vibrate to produce the
effects, and not the atoms of the wire. If anybody is disposed
to be critical about our last lecture, we may state that nearly
every point referred to is admitted by the world of science, and
that all the points not admitted by science are given on our
authority, but they will eventually be decided by experiment;
as yet they are one step beyond that which experimental
science has attempted.
THE NATURE AND USES OE WILL-POWER.
Mrs. Tappan, still in the trance state, announced the
subject of the lecture to be will-power, and continued :—Will
Nov. 13, 1874.
or volition constitutes the identity of the human spirit; we
prefer to use the word volition. Science says that there are
voluntary and involuntary actions of the human body, and
that the latter may become more or less voluntary. An or¬
dinary person is a negative recipient, under the influence of
the will of others. An acrobat is vitalised well; he does not
suffer much from being beaten, nor are his nerves in danger
from shocks, since they are so much under the subjection of
his will; he balances and sustains the equilibrium of the vital
forces, to the extent of preserving his frame by the power of
his will. All persons accustomed to appear in public are
aware that the muscles of the face and their nerves are much
under the subjection of their will, whilst inexperienced persons
are nervous and confused under the same conditions. Respira¬
tion, to an almost infinite extent, may be brought under the
control of the will, so that after a certain amount of atmo¬
spheric air has been inhaled, men can remain under water ten
or more minutes without a fresh supply, and it is believed
that there is an inner respiration which will preserve life much
longer, if carefully cultivated. The ordinary motions of
nature are not necessarily involuntary, but are the act of
accustomed will, whilst the voluntary actions are under the
special action of the will; nearly all the functions of the
human system can be made subject to the human will in the
ordinary voluntary sense. You can thus change the circula¬
tion of the blood, and heal disease by a voluntary process, so
these things must be connected with the will. The rapid
action of the will and the force of habit make some of
these motions seem to be involuntary; a trained pianist,
for example, performs involuntarily that which at first could
only be executed with the will at its utmost tension;' the
terms voluntary and involuntary action are simply relative,
and all the functions of the human body may be subject
to the volition either of the individual himself, or of some
other individual with more will-power. Mesmerism furnishes
many examples of this, and of the power of one mind over
another. Voulant, or willing, is a clearly essential requisite
of perfect life; whoso lives without willing that every depart¬
ment of his being shall be in order, invites disease; whoever
by willing distributes the vital force equally throughout every
portion of his system, thereby establishes health or vital
equilibrium. Whatever causes the depolarisation of the
atoms, making them turn from the will, causes a disturbance
of the system, sometimes by letting them fall under the
influence of a superior will, or to be influenced by morbid or
diseased human organisms. Emotion, or the sudden dis¬
turbance caused by a horrible sight, will sometimes cause the
particles to turn from the centre, or the will, which is the
centre of the action of the human spirit upon the matter in
the human frame, and upon its intensity, balance, and power,
depends the entire vital force of the physical body. By will
you can protect yourselves from nervous diseases, and also
prevent your bodies from receiving contagion. When you
relax your will-power, the material atoms of your bodies are
more subject to outside influences. By a will ” we do not
mean “ stubbornness,” we mean the action of the mind upon
the physical body and upon matter, and this may have nothing
to do with the mental characteristics which individuals
possess. By this power alone do we acknowledge the
influence of law upon nature; there is also no law
without an adequate cause of law, and manifestations
of law in nature are the manifestations of volition
remotely or indirectly. Man has an accumulation of
the laws of nature in his physical system, so also in
his spiritual nature he represents the junction of many
laws of mind. No vital force is distributed throughout the
system, without volition, and every atom is set in motion by
volition. When Mesmer discovered mesmerism, it was but
the discovery of the vital points connected with the human
system, whereby one will can successfully control another to
the benefit of the latter ;. when a man does not know how his
will is related to that of others, he sometimes exerts it to
their injury, and lessens the efficiency of their volition. Every
individual who willingly places himself or herself under the
guidance of another mind, becomes subject to the will of the
teacher; whoever listens here to-night, has made his will, for
the time being, subject to the will of the speaker, just in pro¬
portion to the amount of his passivity. The amount of his
willingness to accept what is said, depends upon two condi¬
tions, one of which is material, and the other whether the
mind itself is not in a state of antagonism, but rather in one
of receptivity ; if the will refuses to listen, the mind does not
receive the argument. A man with a strong will can go forth
into the cffd, and by constantly combatting it, can prevent
THE SPIRITUALIST.
235
NoV. 13, 1874.
himself from feeling its influence; so a man can unmoved
enter any mental atmosphere, because his will is active, and
is not capable of giving way to another will. Whatever your
will can do, either consciously or unconsciously, with the
atoms in your bodies, can be done to similar atoms in disem¬
bodied spirits, when the laws are known, and a disembodied
will acting upon your organisation can produce the same
results. Seers can perceive an aura around individuals,
and can tell by that aura not only the degree of will¬
power in any organism, but what influence the person
will have in society ; they can also see some¬
thing of that supra-mundane but real existence of which
the world knows so little. Upon the action'of that will depends
the well-being of every individual in human society. You
think a thought and you say,—“I have not told it. No one
knows the nature of that thought. I have it within the secret
recesses of my mind.” But a vibration of the atmosphere
around you has been made, your will takes positive shape, and
the other individual will surely feel the effect in some shape.
It says in the olden Book: A bird of the air may carry it; ”
that bird is your volition. If it be a malignant thought, it
takes shape, takes bodily form, and pierces the soul to whom
it is sent. It is said that action must be upright, and all the
laws of society tend to promote good behaviour, but the Man
of God said that the thought must be right, the volition must
not be entertained, or else the sin is already there ; it is the
will itself which must be godly it is said, and by this is meant
that the will of the individual must represent a perfected state
of the human organism to the extent that disease and illness
of all kinds may be prevented—a perfected state of the
human mind to the extent that all forms of thought
that affect mankind injuriously may be made subservient to
the healthy action and control of volition. Casting out demons,
the relief of disease, the healing of leprosy, all are instances
of the power of this will under perfect guidance; diseases
have been healed by mesmerism, by spiritual control, by
Divine authority, or by the power of superior volition.
All forms of life are connected with spirit; those diseases
which are supposed to be entirely the result of unto¬
ward circumstances are really due to lack of balance
in the will of the individual suffering from them. All
negative vice in society will cease to exist when the will is
properly controlled. An evil spiritual atmosphere does more
harm than the physical atmosphere ; in sanitary matters
spiritual causes are acting all around you, ready to hold you
in their grasp if you are unwary; wherever the will is weak
there is vice, wherever it is strong there is a great moral lever
in society. Every individual can try these experiments per¬
sonally, and gain entire proof of what we have stated. In so
far as the primal volition is thwarted and swayed by other
wills or by disturbing elements, is mental or physical disturb¬
ance encouraged. By primal volition is meant that every indi¬
vidual spirit has a thought and volition the expression of
which is most healthful to himself and good for the welfare
of the world, but the perversion of this, and its becoming a
secondary thought, makes man a creature of circumstances
and causes his troubles; the primal thought would prevent
all encroachments and contaminations, and would impart to
others only that which is of benefit. If the first volition were
acted upon, there could be no injury to each other; force and
encroachment among nations arise from secondary and not
primal volition. The individual is rarely true to himself or
herself, so society is made up chiefly not of primal volitions,
but volitions diluted sometimes a hundredfold. Sometimes
what we call a primal volition has an existence in the
mind, but owing to the vitiated condition of the avenues
of the mind and body, it never takes shape in action, hence
you constantly meet people who intend to do such and such a
good deed, but never do it. Thus the will becomes vitiated.
Never intend to do a thing unless you fulfil it, thus keeping up
the connection between the will and the executive portions of
the body; if it were a question of morality, the acrobat would be
found to be more in accordance with the laws of nature than
you are, because he always fulfils to the utmost of his power
that which his mind has trained his body to do. If you fail
to act, you gradually do less and less, until the time comes
when the thought is full of wonderful volition, but the body
refuses to execute it utterly. It has been said that “ Procras¬
tination is the thief of time,” but unfulfilled volition is the
thief of vital energy. The walk intended for to-day will not be
so efficacious to-morrow, and at another time what you will
to-day might not be done so well, and what a waste of energy
there has been meanwhile throughout the system. If Napo¬
leon has a world to conquer, it is better that he should
do that than allow volition to linger on the pathway of
his life; an ambition which expends itself even in that
unworthy direction has not the sin of sluggishness; other¬
wise brain energy is leaving you, the nerves become debilitated,
your expectations are unfulfilled, your thoughts are without
fruition. The volition which permitted you to do a certain
work at a certain time was postponed for convenience,
until there never came a time for its fulfilment. When a
truth dawns upon you write it down. You have an idea which
it is necessary for you to utter to-day, but you are in society,'
and it is impossible to utter ideas in society; never mind ;
utter it, and if it does no good perhaps it will do no harm.
All thoughts of the superior mind require expression, and
when you are accustomed to express thoughts in this manner,
there will never be a faculty to betray you, or an hour in
which you will, not know what to do. Do it perfectly, though
it be the meanest act; it is preparing the nervous structure,
and setting the house in order to do the greatest deeds of the
world. You will find a great deal of vital energy, nervous
force, and electric power, assuming shape and form to do your
bidding, waiting like attendants for your slightest command.
All things extraneous to the will, are mere modifications of
motion ; volition causes the expression of spirit through
material substance, and the winged thought by which you will
mount to the atmosphere of spiritual existence.
Another hymn was sung, after which Mrs. Tappan, still
entranced, uttered the following inspirational poem :—
In the Beginning was the Word! What matchless power,
Shaping itself through Chaos with the swiftest thought!
Behold! God in his place
Spoke unto Chaos face to face,
In the Beginning.
And the worlds by that mighty breath
Blossomed in space,
From Chaos and from Death,
In the Beginning.
And the germ sleeping all silently, became a flower
With young immortality.
The Word was Law. And atoms kindled into light,
And light became a song, for song is law
And harmony which sweep along,
‘ In octaves through the spheres.
And lo! God vibrant, with eternal hand,
Smote Chaos with a song of law.
Behold! The world, without a flaw,
Traced upon leaf, or tree, or star, or man;
One thought—one primal will—revealing
God’s great plan,
Creation.
Even now, as then, He stands within the space,
Apart, and consecrated to the grace
Of God’s good-word.
Behold! It issues thence,
Each thought becomes a recompense,
And like Creation in its cosmic sphere,
You hold the universe within your heart, and hear
The sigh, the moan.
. These are but echoes of the ante-natal groan.
In the Beginning was the Word!
And by the primal law, and power,
And thought He shaped, the world was born—
The rock—the flower.
And man through the successive ages of his life
, Resonant with song, with care, with strife,
Is but the subject of that primal Word
Which pierces, even as a pointed1 sword,
The depths of matter.
Lo! The primal thought!
How pure and white it is!
Its rays are caught along the prism of life,
Turned red and grey by human strife.
Even now, as then, God speaks in primal word,
One song of harmony is ever heard.
The spirit who gave the interesting address last Sunday
through Mrs. Tappan’s mediumship, announces himself to be
Dr. Benjamin Rush, who in the last century was an eminent
member of the medical profession in Philadelphia.
We have received four letters against the insertion of the
article “ Confessions of Ex-Spiritualists.” It was put in to
elicit information, and in accordance with the custom of fairly
hearing all sides.
Mr. Morse’s Arrival th America.—Mr. J. M. Peebles,
in a letter relating to the publication of his books, says:—
Mr. J. J. Morse, English lecturer on Spiritualism, who lately
arrived here from England, looks hale and healthy, and is
ready for work. He goes to Baltimore on Friday for a month’s
engagement; December he lectures in Philadelphia, Pa. He
reports the star of Spiritualism rising zenithward in the Old
World. Mr. Morse speaks in the trance, permitting questions
after the lecture.”—Banner of Light.
236
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 13, 1874,
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OE THE COUNCIL.
Last Monday night a meeting of the British National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists was held at Lawson’s Rooms, Gower-
street, London. The members of the Council present were
Mr. Alexander Calder (in the chair), Mrs. Makdougall Gregory,
Mrs. Morell Theobald, Mrs. Desmond Fitzgerald, Miss Kisling-
bury, Miss Houghton, Mr. Edward T. Bennett, Mr. Keningale
Cook, Mr. Morell Theobald, Mr. Webster Glynes, Mr. G.
Nelson Strawbridge, and Mr. Algernon Joy.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
COERE&PONDENCE.
Miss Eislingbury then read many letter^ addressed to the
Association.
Mr. Terry, of Melbourne, wrote that he would send an
account of The Rise and, Progress of Spiritualism in Australia
to the Association; also that he would forward four bound
volumes of The Harbinger of Light.
Mr. Mylne wrote from Bengal that he was in favour of the
late theological clause being struck out of the prospectus.
Mr. W. R. Potts wrote that he had recently investigated
Spiritualism, in spite of the opposition of his friends, had
discovered it to be true, and now would not sacrifice the know¬
ledge he had derived from it, for all the wealth and comfort in
the world. (Applause.)
Mr. Riko, of the Hague, wrote that he would assist the
Association with his pen.
Mr. Thomas P. Hinde, of Darlington, wrote that he would
increase his subscription to the Association as soon as evi¬
dence of its permanency increased, and he thought that all
its greatest initial difficulties had already been surmounted.
Mr. Desmond FitzGerald wrote that he knew a powerful
medium who was a boy in a printing office, and suggested
that the Association should secure his services, and fully
develops his powers under the best conditions.
Several other letters were read.
NEW MEMBERS.
Mr. J. H. Andre, Captain H. Hudson of Swansea, Mr.
and Mrs. Olive, Mr. F. Stephens, Mr. Edmond Proctor of
Newcastle, and Dr. Monck, were elected ordinary members of
the Association.
Invitations to become honorary members were authorised
to be issued to Dr. F. Hoffmann, of Wurtzburg, Victor Hugo,
and Mr. H. W. Longfellow, the poet.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science at the
University at Berne, was then elected honorary member ; Miss
Kislingbury stated that once he adopted the psychic force
theory, but was now a Spiritualist, and one of the best contri¬
butors to M. Aksakof’s journal, Psychic Studies, published in
Leipzig.
MR. EPES SARGENT ON THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Mr. Epes Sargent, of Boston, was next elected honorary
member, and the following letter from him was read:—
“ Boston, U. S., Oct. 5th, 1874.
“Miss Eislingbury, London.—Dear Mdlle.,—I have re¬
ceived from you, as Secretary of the British National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, a request that I would permit the Council
to elect me an honorary corresponding member of the Associa¬
tion. I have hitherto kept aloof from all organisations and
conventions for the advancement of Spiritualism, believing
that I could best serve the cause by individual and indepen¬
dent research and experiment, and fearing that organisations
might attempt to impose their opinions rather than their facts
upon the seeker after truth. But the judicious revisal of your
declaration of principles, &c., and the names I find among
your vice-presidents and members of Council, give me the
utmost confidence that your Association will be liberal and
broad in its management, and that no friend of free thought
will have course to complain of it.
M Spiritualism is a science, and we can therefore afford to
be liberal—more so, I think, than the American Scientific
Associatiqn, who refused Dr. Hare a hearing in regard to the
phenomena he had tested, establishing the fact of spirit action,
and passed to the consideration of the important question,
1 What is the cause of the crowing of cocks between midnight
and morning? ’ Perhaps, however, the two subjects are more
nearly related than would appear at first sight—if Shake¬
speare’s notions on the subject of the disappearance of ghosts
at the crowing of the cock are right.
“ Of course the Association must turn its back on rubbish,
whether radical or conservative, but every sincere, earnest, and
competent'truth-seeker, who thinks he has any light to throw
on the facts or theories of Spiritualism, should be entitled to
a hearing. At the same time relevancy should be demanded,
and our mantle of liberality should not be so wide as to take
in subjects wholly disconnected from the one important
enquiry for the prosecution of which your Association is
formed.
“ It will give me much pleasure to accept the honour you
propose in my election as an honorary member of your asso¬
ciation ; and I am, with sincere regard, yours, &c.,
“ Box 3556, Boston.” “Epes Sargent.
The resignations of five members were accepted; they gave
business or religious reasons for withdrawing.
The action of the Finance Committee in relation to the
engagement of Mr. Haxby as Assistant-Secretary pro tern, was
confirmed by the Gouncil. Mr. Joy stated that the business
of the Association had been so heavy lately that Mr. Haxby
had had four or five hours’ work a day, but he did not know
whether the work would continue to be so great.
LEGAL QUESTIONS.
Mr. Joy—I suggest that we appoint a solicitor.
Mr. Bennett (promptly)—I move that we don’t. (Laughter.)
Mr. Eeningale Cook—I second the amendment.
Mr. Joy said that some persons objected to the Offices
Guarantee Fund, because they asserted that every individual
member of it would be legally liable to pay any expenses in¬
curred in the way of premises. The objectors were clearly in
the wrong, since the Association was not a corporate body, so
could only take offices through trustees, who would be respon¬
sible for the amount, but look to the guarantors to indemnify
them. Still the Council should have a solicitor to give in¬
formation on points of law.
Mr. Theobald said that if necessary advice could be obtained
when wanted on special points, but that the appointment of a
solicitor was not desirable.
Mr. Eeningale Cook said that if an angelic solicitor could be
found, who would give advice to the Association for nothing,
just as other gentlemen were working for the good of the
cause, he should have no objection to the appointment of a
honorary solicitor.
The question was then deferred sine die.
BUSINESS AT ANNUAL CONFERENCES.
Mr. Joy read a letter from Mr. John Chapman, of Liverpool,
which had also been read at a previous meeting of the Council;
it was to the effect that the Council ought to report its pro¬
ceedings to the annual conferences, and abide by the decisions
of the latter as to all the business of the Association, such
having been the constitution laid down for the Association at
the first conference meeting in Liverpool.
Mr. Joy then read his proposed reply, which was a long one,
to Mr. Chapman, to the effect that many of the persons at the
conferences were not members of the Association, so had no
right to interfere with its management; such right belonged
to members only. The members present at the conference
might vote on these matters. The Council knew nothing of
the constitution of which Mr. Chapman spoke, since it had
been unable to obtain the minutes of the Liverpool Conference
either from its secretary, Mr. Ramsay, or others to whom they
had also applied. Consequently all the information the
Council had to work upon was the long report of the proceed¬
ings of the conference published in The Spiritualist newspaper.
The Council would be glad to have these points considered,
and to receive suggestions from Mr. Chapman and his friends,
The Council authorised the forwarding of the letter to
Mr. Chapman.
THE FINANCE COMMITTEE’S REPORT.
Mr. Morell Theobald read the Finance Committee’s report,
dated November 9th. It stated the Association had £40 in
hand, and recommended payments to the extent of £30, many
of the expenses being those relating to the last conference.
The committee estimated the outstanding liabilities at £7. It
recommended that an account should be opened with the
Birkbeck bank.
Mr. Joy remarked that twenty-eight members, whose names
he produced, had not yet paid their subscriptions for the
present year, and that probably £150 of next year’s subscrip¬
tions would be paid up in January. The total loss over the
late conference was about £45, and not about £30, as he had
once roughly estimated.
The report was then adopted, and the committee
instructed to produce the closed conference accounts at the
next meeting.
Nov. 13, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
237
Mr. George King was appointed a member of the bye-laws
committee.
OFFICES FOK* THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Mr. E. T. Bennett said that the Guarantee Fund towards
taking offices, now amounted to £153 ; several persons had
written letters giving reason to suppose that they would con¬
tribute. The Offices Committee recommended that the list of
subscribers should be sent to the next Spiritualist, for publica¬
tion, since that would show the public how much had been
already guaranteed,-and would encourage others to join, since
the larger the number, the less the individual actual payments.
The first year would naturally be the worst and most expen¬
sive in this matter.
Mr. Webster Glynes rose and said that until the money
was in the hands of the Association, the Guarantee Fund
would be of no avail. In point of law, until the amount had
been expended, the guarantors could not be called upon, and
the expenditure of money without the possession of the funds
would place the Association in a position which he would
strongly condemn. He then gave notice that he would move
the adoption of some additional rules, which he read, to pre¬
vent the Association from incurring any expenses whatever,
before it had the funds actually in hand to liquidate them.
Mr. G. Nelson Strawbridge seconded the notice of motion.
Mr. Morell Theobald said that the demand for money in
hand would fall a dead weight in the matter of the Guarantee
Fund. Two or three persons on the Council would make
themselves personally responsible for the rent of offices, and
look to the guarantors, who were known to be honourable
persons, for the deficit. He thought that it was a vital point
that the Association should have offices—a home of its own
—as soon as possible.
The Chairman asked whether two or three gentlemen would
incur the responsibility of taking offices ?
Mr. Theobald thought that there was no difficulty about
that, and it was apprehended that most of the Guarantee
Fund would never be called for.
Mr. Strawbridge said that he was a member of the National
Sunday League, in connection with which a Public Hall Com¬
pany (Limited) was being formed, to erect a hall which itself
was designed to be a paying affair ; there would be rooms in
it available for the purposes of the National Association of
Spiritualists, and he was sure that the League would hold out
the hand of friendship to them in the matter.
Mr. Theobald had thought for a long time that there would
be certain advantages in the National Association enrolling
itself under the Limited Liability Act.
Mr. Glynes said that by co-operation, and one thousand
Spiritualists giving £2 each, a hall belonging exclusively to
Spiritualists could be built.
Mr. Keningale Cook remarked that during the present year
the Association had done what it had promised to do—it had
lived within its expenses.
It was then resolved that the Guarantee Fund should be
collected, and placed in the hands of two trustees, Mr. Martin
R. Smith and Mr. Alexander Calder.
Mr. Strawbridge urged that no time should be lost in
accepting Mr. Glynes’ proposed rules; if it could be done
that evening, so much the better.
Mr. Joy deprecated hasty action, and said that a copy of
the proposed rules should be laid before every member of the
Council, and time given for consideration.
It was resolved that Mr. Joy’s suggestion should be adopted,
and a special meeting of the Council be called, to decide on the
matter, that day fortnight, at seven o’clock.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION SOIREE.
Miss Kislingbury announced that the Co-operative Hall,
formerly Concert Room to the Princess’s Theatre, could be
had on Thursday evening, December 3rd, for three guineas,
and tea- supplied at ninepence per head, to a guaranteed
minimum attendance of individuals. It was an understood
thing that the Soiree Committee was to make the soiree clear
its own expenses. It was intended to be a popular soiree, at
cheap rates of admission. _
It was resolved that the soiree be held as proposed.
THE EDUCATION OF THE CHILDREN OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Mr. Alexander Calder moved that the Council having regard
to the offer of Mr. Martheze to subscribe j6200 a-year for
three years towards the establishmant of a college for the
children of Spiritualists, the following members of Council
be appointed a committee to consider and report upon the
subject:—Mr. J. N. T. Martheze, Mr. D. H. Wilson, B.A.
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Miss Kislingbury, Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.
Mr. T. Everitt, and Mr. Alexander Calder. In his opinion this
was one of the most important steps which the National
Association could take. It might be asked why they should
move in the matter at such an early stage; his answer was
that they ought to utilise the excellent offer of Mr. Martheze,
and he knew other persons who would contribute to the same
object. In the proposed schools more sympathy would be
extended to the children of Spiritualists; some of these
children were mediums, and unless tenderly treated would
gp utterly wrong; the children also ought to be brought up
with the truths of Spiritualism constantly before them, and
not be taught them at home one day in the week, while they
were denied by their associates during the other six days. At
the present time also, things were taught in schools which
Spiritualists knew to be altogether false. "Under other teaching
children would grow up to be strong champions of the cause of
Spiritualism. He had thought over these things very deeply
for a long time, perhaps more than most people, he would
consequently move the appointment of the committee.
The committee was appointed accordingly to enquire into
the practicability of establishing a school or college.
The proceedings then closed.
FATHER IGNATIUS A MEDIUM.
The Rev. Father Ignatius, O.S.B., monk of the
Church of England, conducted a plain service in the
Grand Concert Hall, West-street, Brighton, last even¬
ing.- There was a large congregation, and the Rev.
Father appeared in Benedictine habit. He founded
the subject of his discourse—the Spiritual life—on St.
John xiv. 6 :—“Jesus said, I am the way, the truth,
and the life.” In the course of his remarks, which
were eloquent, impressive, and attentively listened to,
he asserted that it was only a trick of the devil in the
present day to try and make people think it was super¬
stitious to believe anything particular about the dead.
If they were heard speaking of the apparitions of
spirits they were, he observed, laughed at as being
deluded wretches or fanatics; hut, notwithstanding
this, he declared that he was in continual communica-
tkm with the spirits of the departed; his con¬
versation was in heaven, to employ the language
of St. Paul, as contained in the chapter read before
the sermon—Philippians iii. The spirits of the
dead often spoke to him, and in far clearer tones
than his hearers and he could speak. And if so-
called Christians chose to deny the Bible by saying that
communion with the dead was impossible, the devil
would give them Spiritual communion of another kind.
The Christian, if he were a real Christian, was the true
Spiritualist, and if they would not have Christian Spi¬
ritualism, the devil would thrust another Spiritualism
upon them, nolens volens. In their heart they did not
think it was all nonsense, trickery, jugglery, like the
doings of Maskelyne and Cooke. They knew, if they
believed what they professed, that evil spirits were
wandering around. The air, the atmosphere sur¬
rounding the world was the very dominion of the devil—
was the special dominion of the demons. God declared
it, their Bible stated it, and they denied it. The Prince
of the Power of the Air, their adversary the devil, was
going about as a roaring lion seeking whom he might
devour. During the service the Mission Hymn Book
was used. An offertory was made to defray the ex¬
penses of the service, the money received for sittings
being given to the Order to which the Rev. Father
belongs. Next Sunday a prayer meeting will be held
in the afternoon at three o’clock, and service in the
evening at seven.—Sussex Daily Neies.
238
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 13, 1874.
(EorrespcnTience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
THE BLACK SHEEP OjF SPIBITUALISM.
Sib,—You have thought fit, in a spirit of brave indifference
to public opinion, to give additional currency to a one-sided
article which has recently appeared in a journal professedly
opposed to jSpiritualism, without a word of comment from
yourself, and you thereby evoke feelings strongly condemna¬
tory of your prudence.
No fair-minded man would condemn Christianity because of
the immorality of some of its teachers. Nor would any
religious journal think of giving currency to the scandals,
however well founded, which are uttered against the conduct
of many clergymen of the Church of England. ( But I give you
credit for having printed this objectionable article, which you
call the Confessions of Ex-Spiritualists, for the purpose of
eliciting information, though you have unfortunately omitted
to say so. On this assumption I have to remark, in the first
place, that the writer of that article does not speak of Mr.
J. E. Whitney as a Spiritualist (and I am pretty certain he
was never known as one), but as the editor of an American
journal—an obscure one,—and which is, no doubt, opposed to
Spiritualism.
Mr. Whitney himself only speaks from “ watching its prac¬
tical workings upon its devotees.”
The man Bandolph, who assumes the title of Doctor, is a
mulatto, who came into the movement some sixteen or seven¬
teen years ago, and was developed as an inspirational speaker,
and he has from time to time spoken and written some books
professedly under influence.
But though at times startling in his eloquence, and powerful
in some of his descriptive scenes of the spirit world, no one
knew what to make of him, and in this way he passed as a
medium, supposed by Spiritualists to be only half developed
(that is, not quite sane), and not one to whom Spiritualists
would point to illustrate the advantages of their faith.
Suddenly he was influenced to denounce Spiritualism as an
impure thing, then after a time he came back into its ranks,
and among other things he undertook to write the life of the
Davenport Brothers after their return to America, and this,
a volume of more than 400 pages, he completed a little more
than four years ago. In the preface he makes the following
introductory remarks:—
“Probably no era of the world’s history has been so
replete with evidences of man’s immortality .... Of
all that has a tendency to startle men, revolutionise pre¬
vious methods of thinking, and to effect radical changes in
mind, politics, morals, and religion, unquestionably the
greatest, most potent, wide-reaching, and radical, has been
that grand movement, whereby, to the minds of millions,
man’s continued existence after death has been physi¬
cally and sensibly demonstrated; and among the multi¬
tudinous agencies whereby this radical movement and change
has been, and still is, being effected, the Brothers Davenport
confessedly stand pre-eminent among the many thousands
whose mission appears to lie in that direction.” Now we are
told that this erratic, hair-brained man has gone once more
under the control of demoniac influences, and illustrates the
melancholy fact in his own person.
Of the other learned doctor, so disreputable has been his
career, that my pen almost refuses to speak of him. But let
it be known, that he, older than her father, induced a young
and helpless girl, whom he recognised as spiritually gifted
in a remarkable degree, to marry him, and so heartless, cruel,
and immoral was his conduct afterwards, that three of the lead¬
ing Spiritualists of New York, viz., Judge Edmonds, Professor
James Mapes, and Dr. Wilson, took up the cause of this poor girl,
forced the fellow before the Divorce Court, and happily
obtained for her her liberty and freedom, and thus the animus
which influences this disgraced and degraded man to write
against Spiritualism, and the habits and practices of mediums.
But, sir, if you feel so severely virtuous in the discharge of
your editorial functions, why need you parade a chapter from
an opponent to show the dark and objectionable side of
disorderly mediumship ?
You can collect from every work of any moment which has
ever been published by Spiritualists in Europe or America the
free admission of evils which surround the subject. Spirit¬
ualists never deny them in writing or speaking, but are con¬
stantly warning the upinitiated to beware and keep a guard
upon the manner in which they carry on their investigations.
Those who have plunged into the vortex unheedingly are those
who have been urged on by their own sceptical feelings, fancy¬
ing that there can be no harm in a myth and the imaginings
of superstitious dreamers and their absurdities, as this class
of thinkers is pleased to call the facts of Spiritualism. But
in collecting facts of baneful and demoniac influences, you, as
a Spiritualist, would take care to record, side by side with
them, all the heaven-born advantages which this wonderful
philosophy opens out, not the least of which is the proof
positive of immortality, the grandest fact to meet and over¬
come the doubts and difficulties of the multitudes of men and
women who have been estranged by the dogmas and creeds of
churches, and who we know are now filling the ranks of Spirit¬
ualism to an extent and in numbers far larger than any reli¬
gious movement has commanded in the world’s history ; and
this, too, despite the opposition of the religious world on
the one hand, and of the scientific a priori reasoners on the
other. If this be true, we may rest satisfied that Spiritualism
will spread with giant strides, and that it will ultimately
reconcile religion with science under holy protection that it is
God’s eternal truth. Benjamin Coleman.
Upper Norwood, November 9th, 1874.
A DEFENCE OF SCIENTIFIC SPIRITUALISM.
Sib,—It seems to me that the extraordinary tergiversations
of three former champions of Spiritualism which you record
in your last number, and their startling declamation against it
as the cause of the most shocking vice and depravity, are
calculated to excite so strong a prejudice against our cause,
that I feel impelled to write a short letter in defence of
it, hoping that some one of more ability than myself will
shortly support it in a much better manner.
Bespecting in the highest degree liberty of thought and
freedom of discussion, I have myself always consistently con¬
tended for Christian morality in connection with a restoration
of primitive. Christian rights and privileges, though I have
never considered the Christian religion to be of divine origin,
but as one recommending itself to mankind by insuring
a larger amount of happiness than any other, if its principles
are duly acted upon, and its benefits justly distributed. This,
however, at present is certainly by no means the case
(see vol 4, page 202). Having said so much to guard myself
against misapprehension, I will now examine the charges
which Dr. Bandolph brings against Spiritualism.
All the list of crimes and vices which he absurdly charges
upon it have existed at all times. Self-destruction is the last
resource of desperate want and misery; and will be practised
until society is better organised, and we show less selfishness
and more brotherly love one to another. As to its being the
means of breaking up families, religious differences have
always acted in this manner; and the doctor must have known
that Christ is stated to have said, “I am not come to
send peace on earth but a sword &e.” How Spiritualism can
have been the means of “ squandering fortunes,” T cannot
conjecture, but I know that in this country many old
aristocratic families have been brought to ruin by gambling
and electioneering; and it is reasonable to suppose that evil
spirits, by exciting the passions of cupidity and pride, have
always driven their victims into these means of ruin : still the
diffusion of moral sentiments is gradually putting an end to
them, and they cannot in any way, more than other weak¬
nesses and follies, be charged upon Spiritualism. But reli¬
gion, in truth, has been justly charged with absorbing for¬
tunes and depriving children of their inheritances. Sad tales
of immorality also have for a long time past been reported in
regard to the clergy, and may be read in newspapers or heard
in country places; but the less said upon this subject the
better.
The most awful and painful charge which Dr. Bandolph
makes against Spiritualism is “ scattering the intellect of
thousands.” This also is an unjust accusation, and it seems
to come with great insincerity from a man who, some time
ago, dedicated a spiritual story “ to those who can read and
think, as well as to those who can read and feel,” for he must,
like the Bev. Theodore Parker, have been aware of the unjust
inequality with which intellectual and spiritual gifts are dis¬
tributed by the Spiritual powers among mankind. The latter
in his autobiography (part of which some years ago was
inserted in the Star newspaper) says, “ I knew the cha¬
racters of all my hearers and the thoughts of such as had
themthus showing three grades of human existence
viz., people without thought, some capable of thinking, and
others so superior to these last as to be able to read their
Hov. 13, 1874. THE SPIRITUALIST.  239
thoughts, and probably to control their actions. “ Scattering
the intellect of thousands,” though one of the most cruel
and wicked means of obliterating the image of God and
degrading humanity to a brute level existed ages before
the word “ Spiritualism ” was invented, and goes back
to very remote times. Putting out a man’s mental light
is mentioned in the book of Job, c.xviii., ver. 5, 6, and 7. It is
probably the meaning of the passage in the New Testament
Scriptures which represents the man without a wedding
garment as cast out into outer darkness, where there is weep¬
ing, wailing, and gnashing of teeth; for this must signify
absence of mind, along with the affliction of evil possession.
It seems also that the deprivation of intellectual faculties was
practised among the ancient Egyptians. In a work on ancient
Egypt, written in French by Monsieur Champollion-Figeac, at
page 56 the author says: “ The prince marked out by the law
of primogeniture succeeded to the throne, religion consecrated
his accession, and his institution as king was given him by
the gpds themselves. There is to be seen in the Rhamesium
of Thebes a monument built by Shamses the Third (Sesostris),
a representation of the institution of Sesostris as king. He
is in the presence of the two greatest divinities of Egypt.
They invest him with royal powers, and give him the ensigns
of royalty. They deliver to him the scythe of battle, and
also the whip and the pedum, emblems of direction and
moderation. Ammon Ra, the chief god, says to the king:
“ Receive the scythe of battle to keep back foreigp. nations,
and cut off the Mads of the impure; take the whip and the
pedum to direct the land of Egypt.” It would seem, then,
that the kings waged war by divine right upon the brains of
their subjects, as we have in plate 46 (a copy of some ancient
monument), the figure of a king on the field of battle, with
his legs wide spread so as to extend over two rows of men
lying on the ground beneath him; the lower extremities of
their bodies being interlaced, and their heads turned outwards,
so that the hind foot of the king rests on one row of heads,
and his front foot on the other, whilst a spirit like a vulture
hovers over his head, holding in its talons a knife, the in¬
strument or emblem of mental destruction. I should not
have trespassed so much upon your space if the engraving
above described was not placed quite out of the reach of the
generality of English readers.
I have only to say in conclusion that Spiritualism—whose
fundamental doctrine teaches the communion of the spiritual
world with that of the fiesh and its supremady over the
latter—cannot in justice be said to have added to the miseries
of mankind; but that by enabling us to trace them to their
true source it may teach us howto avoid some of them. It does
not prevent us from acting with justice and benevolence
to each other; from loving our neighbours as ourselves ;
or from doing unto others what we would have them do unto
us; but I hope that by bringing the works of darkness into the
light and showing us what we ought to shun, it may be the
means of establishing what the Old Testament Scriptures call
a National God, a religious institution, that may distribute
fairly amongst our people physical, intellectual and spiritual
benefits. T. E. P.
SOCIAL MEETING OF THE MAEYLEBONE ASSOCIATION.
Sib,—This society held its monthly meeting on Nov. 9th,
and a very social and interesting gathering it was, although
few members were present. The following friends enlivened
the meeting, by giving songs, recitations, and Veadings:—
Miss D’Arcy, Master Bowes, and Messrs. Wallace, Tilby, Paul,
Harvey, White, and Friehold; the last gentleman gave a
German song in first-rate style. A vote of thanks was given
to Miss D’Arcy and Mr. Harvey for their very efficient assis¬
tance during the evening. Chas. Hunt, Hon, Sec.
MK. EVEEITT IN BISHOP AUCKLAND.
Sib,—On Sunday evening last, the inhabitants of Bishop
Auckland and district were favoured with an address in the
town-hall, from Mr. Thomas Everitt, of London, who is on a
visit here. His opening remarks were followed by an ex¬
haustive course of reasoning, showing most conclusively that
the papers he was about to read were given in direct writing
by invisible intelligent beings, and certainly the way in which
they bandied the subject, which bore on the truthfulness of the
Christian Religion, and the personal existence of Jesus Christ,
showed that the author or authors were persons of great
learning and well qualified to deal with the subject. The
audience, which was the largest ever addressed in Bishop
Auckland on any subject bearing on Spiritualism, was very
attentive, especially when the lecturer entered into any ex¬
planation as,to the modus operandi of direct writing. His
concluding remarks, based upon these writings, clearly proved
the continued existence of- man after he leaves this world. I
hope Mr. Everitt will favour us with more of his experiences
before he leaves the north. Such addresses are calculated to
do a great deal of good. I may remark that the presence of
our esteemed friends, has given quite an impetus to the cause.
The collection made at the close assisted very materially in
defraying the expenses. Mr. Everitt gave his lecture free.
Mr. Kilburn introduced the lecturer.
Joseph Gibson, Hon. Secretary.
Bishop Auckland, Nov. 9th.
PBJVATE SEANCESL IN MANCHESTER.
Sib,—Among the many difficulties and annoyances which
earnest searchers after truth have to encounter, nothing can
be more distressing than the discontinuance of experiments,
which have been conducted in all fairness and pointed to the
highest results. I refer to a report about our circle, by Mr.
C. Blackburn, with a letter of mine appended, in The Spirit¬
ualist of 1st of August, 1873. Nothing seemed more natural
than to expect these splendid seances (of which said able
report gives only a fragment) should be continued, but, alas,
I found, after returning from the Continent, that public
slander had once more overruled fair and sound reason.
At the outset, I recommended the invitation of nobody else
to our seances, but to keep them strictly private until public
opinion should be a little more advanced. Soon, however,
curious witnesses were admitted, among them men of science.
The explanations occasionally offered to account for these per¬
plexing phenomena were more wonderful than the facts them¬
selves ; once, for instance, a cataleptic state of the medium
had to account for the moving of chairs six feet distant! We
rather liked the word, for there is a certain dash in it, and a
welcome relief to the hackneyed ‘‘psychic force,” or ‘‘uncon¬
scious, etc.,” but when it claimed to be more than fun, the
medium, being of a lively turn, would reply with a hearty
laugh: ‘‘No, friends, I do it all by trickery—I am very, very
clevaaar! ” I enjoyed and seconded readily this joke, which
was repeated when cataleptic, epileptic, apoplectic, and other
tics and diseases were tried to humbug us out of our five
senses. How wonderful! we go to seances to see marvels,
but soon detect that laws govern here as elsewhere, and
our longing for the wonderful is only satisfied when turning
round to receive the explanations offered under the mask
of science!
Now, then, this playful fun on the part of the medium has
been converted into a real confession of trickery, and handled
in such a manner that even I myself had to ask, not out of
suspicion, but as a matter of form, the lady herself, whether
she had on any occasion indulged in mixing the genuine with
some trick, and received, of course, a most positive reply in the
negative.
Much as I regretted this interference with the beautiful de¬
velopment of our experiments, I have, on the other hand, to
be grateful for the important results bearing ou the question
of spirit identity, which I have obtained by forming circles
with several mediums, private and professional. The same
faithful spirit manifested in all seances, and the last one, a
few days ago, gives me hope for further success, of which
I may soon have to report noticeable details.
Manchester. C. Reimeks.
THE LUNACY LAWS.
Sib,—Will you allow me through your columns to address a
few words to our co-believers:—
Fellow Spiritualists, let the subjoined certificate, under
which a poor but highly intelligent Devonshire woman was
incarcerated in Exminster Asylum, remove any doubts that
you may yet have of the persecution waged against us by the
doctors as well as by the priests, and rouse you to the rescue,
“ She says that she has seen and conversed with her mother,
who has been dead some years; her conversation is unrational,
and she says she sees many supernatural visions.” So here
we have a parish doctor too uneducated to write his mother-
tongue correctly, sitting in judgment and condemning one in
a far higher sphere. Be assured it is high time for the public
to fight against the doctorcraft which hand in hand with
priestcraft threatens to enslave us all. The Lunacy Com¬
missioners have judicially oraoulated :—“ All Spiritualists are
mad.” Till the falsehood and folly of that judgment has been
proved, and its reversal obtained in open court, there neither is
240
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 13, 1874.
nor can be safety for any of our poorer brethren whose
neighbours may wish to shelve them. I would earnestlj’ urge on
the Council of the Spiritualists’ Association and on all individuals
of influence among us, the expediency—I may say the duty of
coming forward in the cause of civil and religious liberty—and
joining their efforts to those of this society, in order to procure
early next session, either aBoyal Commission or a Parliamen¬
tary Committee to enquire into the above cited case, and others
where spiritual mediumship may have been made the ground
of incarceration. Louisa Lowe,
Hon Sec. of the Lunacy Law Reform Association.
64, Berners-street, Nov. 3rd, 1874.
MEETINGS IN MARY LEU ONE.
Sib,—The committee who carried out the late Sunday
Evening Services at the Marylebone Music Hall gratefully
acknowledge the sum of £2 2s. from an old Spiritualist, and
6s. from W. H. Harrison ; leaving a deficiency still of
£3 11s. 6d. Any assistance towards reducing that deficiency
will be gratefully received by your obedient servant,
37, Wyndham-street, Bryanston-square. C. White.
OFFICES FOR THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION.
Sib,—The Council, at its meeting last evening, desired me to
forward you the names of those ladies and gentlemen who
have already consented to contribute to the Guarantee Fund,
and to ask you kindly to find space for the list in your next
number.
In doing so I should be glad to add that the Offices Com¬
mittee have under consideration various offers that have been
made to them. They will meet again previous to a special
meeting of the Council, to be held on Monday, the 21st, when
they will, if possible, make a definite proposal for its
adoption.
In accordance with the spirit of some resolutions to be pro¬
posed at that special meeting, the Council also decided that
the contributors to the Guarantee Fund should be invited to
send in the amounts they have offered.for the first year.
Messrs. Martin B. Smith and Alexander Calder were appointed
as trustees of that fund.
I should therefore be glad if the subscribers will kindly
remit their contributions to me, to place in the hands of those
gentlemen.
I shall also be happy to receive additions to the list, either
of large or small amounts.—Yours truly,
Enw. T. Bennett.
The Holmes, Betchworth, near Beigate. Nov. 11, 1874.
Contributions already promised to the Guarantee Fund.
3. N. Tiedeman Martheze
Martin R. Smith
Benjamin Coleman
Alexander Calder
N. Fabyan Dawe
James Wason ...
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Algernon Joy .,
W. P. Adshead
Wm. Hunter
R. Hannah
T. E. Partridge
Keningale Cook, B.A
E. Dawson Rogers .
Edward T. Bennett.
Mrs. Fitzgerald
John W. Haxby
Miss Withall ... .
Thos. Everitt ... .
George King, F.S.S.
Thos. P. Hinde
H. T. Humphreys .
Joseph Freeman .
0 0
0 0
0 ,0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
3 0
3 0
3 0
0 0
0 0
2 0
2 0
2 0
2 0
2 0
2 0
J. Lament  
John H. Andrfe 
D. H. and Mrs. Wilson
C. Townsend Hook...
James Regan ..
Mrs. Regan
Morell Theobald
W. A. Dixon
•G.H. Potts
Mrs. Rudd
Miss Ponder
Mrs.Maltby
C. Reimers
C. T. Pearce, M.D. ...
G. Kemp, Sen.
Wm. H. Harrison ...
Desmond G. Fitzgerald
Mrs. Gunyon
John Hare ...
Henry Cook
Mrs. Lane ...
John Holden
Henry J. Gill
2 0
2 0
0 0
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 10 6
0 10 0
The Holmes’s are in Philadelphia again, and have fitted
up a test cabinet for Katie King manifestations.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J. M., Wiesbaden.—Your letter has been sent on.
J. B. O., Liverpool.—-Next week. Too late for this week.
B., Manchester.—The question is dealt with this week.
Editor or Spiritual Scientist, Boston, U.S.—Exchanges shall be
sent.
T. P. H., Darlington.—Always glad to receive authenticated
psychological experiences.
W. H., Chicago.—There is no English translation of Kardec’s
Livre des Esprits in print, but the CoUntess of Caithness has
announced in these pages that she intends to have one pub¬
lished shortly.
Burning a Witch in Effigy Halloween, the observ¬
ance of which is fast falling into neglect in many districts of
Scotland, especially in the Lowlands, was celebrated on a
great scale on Monday night at Balmoral Castle. Prepara¬
tions had been made days beforehand, and the turn-out on
Monday night last week, included farmers and others for miles
around. When darkness set in the celebration began.
Queen Victoria, and the Princess Beatrice, each bearing a
large torch, drove out in an open phaston. A procession
formed of the tenants and servants on the estates followed,
all carrying huge torches lighted. They walked through the
grounds, and round the castle, and the scene as the procession
moved onwards was very weird and striking. Having arrived
in front of the castle an immense bonfire composed of old
boxes, packing-cases, and other materials kept up during the
year for the occasion, was set fire to. When the flames were
at their brightest a figure dressed as a hobgoblin appeared on
the scene, drawing a car surrounded by a number of fairies,
carrying long spears, the car containing the effigy of a witch.
A circlehaviug been formed by the torch-bearers, the presiding
elf, tossed the figure of the witch' into the fire, where it was
speedily consumed. This cremation over, reels were begun,
and were danced with great vigour, to the stirring strains of
Willie Boss, her Majesty’s piper. The Queen, Princess
Beatrice, and.the ladies and gentlemen of the household re¬
mained spectators of the show. It was intended to have
closed the evening's festivities with a dance in the iron ball¬
room, but owing, it is said, to some of the crowd having
behaved in too noisy a manner at the fire, this intention was
abandoned, and the proceedings were wound up in the open
air. The bonfire burned till a late hour in the night, and the
reflection was seen at a long distance.
THE STEAMSHIP AND FACIJPRY SHAFT COUP¬
LING COMPANY (Limited).—NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that
the LIST of APPLICATIONS for SHARES will he CLOSED on MONDAY
next, the 9th ihst., for London, and on WEDNESDAY, the 11th, for the
country.—By order,
H. Aguilar, Secretary.
29, Gresham-street, London, November 3,1874.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Yrawwra’.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—te, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. <See.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa)
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition, price 3s.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
London :—Simpkin, Marshail & Co.
Ready by January 1st, 1875. Suitable for a New-Year’s Gift Book, A new
work on
OPIRITUALTSM, SCIENCE, AND CHRISTIANITY;
showing their Harmony and Relationship, and will be specially
adapted for circulation amongst members of Christian Churches. It will
also be essentially a guide-book for enquirers, and will treat of the fol¬
lowing topics relative to the subject, in a scientific manner:—Spirit Circles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestations, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speaking and "Writing Mediumship, Moral Influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Modiumship, Obsession, Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spirits,
Contradictions of Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and many other
points of interest both to Spiritualists and Enquirers. Published price,
3s. Gd. ; to Subscribers, 2s.; or 12 Copies for £1 Is.
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to George Farmer, 4,
Kingsgate-street, Holborn, London, W. 0.
to Inquirers into spiritualism.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of 2%e Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cath^drale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer,
4, Kingsgate-Btreet, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
Kov. 13, 1874,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREA.T AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIBVQYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover-square, two doors from Regent-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, > will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, 8.W.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N. W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Ross-Church, Mrs. (FlorenceMarryat), 21, Colville-rd.,Kensingston-pk., W
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W. '
Speer. S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-bnildings, Liverpool.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRYGYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Oampden-hill, Kensington.
'R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again onen to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
'ISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
IT V. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
R. J. J.
MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
_LvJL is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfield, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico. S.W. Dr, M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture. Terms 2 guineas.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK AND SADLER, Trance and Physical
Mediums, are open to Engagements for Private or Public Seances.
Terms as per arrangements. Messrs. Peck and Sadler also give Public
Seances every Monday, Tuesday, and Saturday Evenings, at Eight o’clock,
Tickets Is. each (limited number only), and Thursday evenings at Eight
o’clock, Tickets 2s. 6d. each. Tickets to be had at 157, Bute-road. Seances
at 126, Cowbridge-road, Canton, Cardiff.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown. James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road. Blackheath. S.E,
Davies, Rev. C. Maurice. D.D., 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensington-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendo . Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A.S , 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W,
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Chib, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road St. John’s-wood
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Rogers, E. Daw&on, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwefl, S.W.
Sexton, George, M A, M D, LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-rd, S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmoutb.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size. Is.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. To behadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
YISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table cCHote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-street, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
PENTON TAILORING ESTABLISHMENT.
26, PENTON-STREET, N.
EVERITT & SON desire the attention of their friends and the public
generally to the new and varied stock of Autumn and winter goods they
have just received.
Strong durable hard wearing overcoats from 35s.
Strong winter trousers from 14s 6d.
We have a large stock of fancy materials suitable for every article of
Gentlemen’s attire.
Our £2 2s. woaded black cloth frock coats and £1 black doe trousers
which have given such great satisfaction for the last twenty-five years, are
still noted for good quality and durability.
A trial is respectfully solicited.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tent,).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
lion, or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. 1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Grate
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalief
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylue, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh. 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris,
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq.,.Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsio
Mons. Buguet, Paris.
IV
THU SjPlilITtJALIST.
Kqv. 13, 1874.
THE ^TEAM-SHIP AND FACTORY SHAFT-COUPLING
COMPANY, LIMITED.
INCORPORATED UNDER “ THE COMPANIES ACTS, 1862 and 1867,” WHEREBY THE LIABILITY OF SHAREHOLDERS
IS LIMITED TO THE AMOUNT OF THEIR SHARES.
CAPITAL £150,000 IN 30,000 SHARES OF £5 EACH,
Payable as follows:—£1 on Application, £1 10s. on Allotment, and the Balance as reqxiired, at intervals of not
less than three months.
Directors.
Admiral Sir WM. H. HALL, K.C.B., Director of the Peninsular-and Oriental Company.
Sir JOHN MURRAY. Bart.,' of Philiphaugh, N.B., and Reform Club.
Sir HOWARD ELPHINSTONE, Bart., F.G.S., D.C.L., 11, Waterloo Place, Pall Mall, S.W.
Admiral JOHN ALEXANDER DUNTZE, United Service Club, Pall Mall; and 'Woolwich Common.
W. CROOKES, Esq., F.R.S., F.C.S., 20, Mornington Road, Regent’s Park, N.W. .
Captain D. MILLER, R.N., United Service Club; and 58, Hereford Road, Westboume Grove, W..
HENRY G. TREND, Esq., Wembdon House, Petherton Road, Highbury New Park.
Managing Director—Captain D. SPAIN, R.N., United Service Club, and 7, Dartmouth Park Road, Highgato Road, N.W.
CoNSiitTiNG Engineer—C. F. YARLEY, Esq., F.R.S., C.E.
Solicitor—R. S. GREGSON, Esq., 8, Angel Court, E.C.
Auditors—Messrs. BARNARD, CLARKE, M‘LEAN, and Co., Lothbury.
Bankers.
The IMPERIAL BANK (Limited), G, Lothbury* E.C.
The LONDON, and SOUTH-WESTERN BANK, Fenchurch Street, E.C., and its Branches.
The CLYDESDALE BANKING COMPANY, Glasgow, and its Branches.
Brokers.
I Messrs. C. W. PRICE and DEVOT, Bartholomew House, E.C.
GEORGE MILLER, Esq., 31, St. Vincent Place, Glasgow.
Secretary—H. AGUILAR, Esq., R.N.
Temporary Offices—20, GRESHAM STREET, BANK, LONDON; and 133, WEST GEORGE STREET, GLASGOW.
PROSPECTUS.
This Company has been formed to supply an urgent want which has long
been felt by the Shipping and manufacturing interests, namely, the repair
of broken shafts at sea and in factories.
The "Engineer,” of 20th December, 1872, observes:
“ It is not a little remarkable that, notwithstanding all the ingenuity
expended on the marine engine, no one has thought of devising some
method of patching up a broken screw shaft at sea.”
The invention consists of a coupling, which can be easily and expe¬
ditiously applied to fractured shafts, and which renders them as strong as
they originally were.
That such an invention was much required and wdll he largely taken ad¬
vantage of, cannot be doubted, for, on reference to Appendix No. 2, it will
be seen that a large percentage of vessels become disabled, and many of
them total wrecks, through the breakage of screw shafts and paddle shafts,
thus causing serious loss, both of life and property.
After the machinery of a steam vessel has broken down, it is well known
that the charges for towage, &c., are enormous, in addition to which great
losses are caused by the delay which takes place in consequence, and it. is
therefore of the utmost importance that every shipowner should provide
himself wiih the means of enablingjhis vessels, in ease of accident to their
shafts, to resume their course without delay.
According to the returns of the “Bureau Veritas ” (Appendix No. 3), 244
steamers of over 100 tons net register were totally lost during the year
1872, and of these unquestionably | large percentage were disabled by
broken shafts.
The “Glasgow Weekly Mail,” of 28th March, 1874, has the following
upon the subject:
“ Why Steamships are Lost:—Among the numbers of first-class steam¬
ships that have disappeared without leaving any record of their fate, I have
little doubt that their loss .is mainly attributable to their machinery becom¬
ing disabled, and the ships unmanageable and getting into the trough of
the sea, and from their great length and difficulty of manoeuvre, unable to
get out; and from their rolling, and too often from the shifting of bulk
cargo, the vessel cannot right itself, and down she goes without leaving a
trace behind.—‘ Times’ Correspondent.”
The number of merchant steamers afloat in 1872 (vide Appendix No. 4)
was no less 4,336. Of these 2,538 belonged to Great Britain, and averaged
850 tons each. The number of steamers built in Great Britain in 1873,
amounted to 460, averaging 1,167 tons each; the average dimensions in¬
creasing every year (vide Appendix No. 3), 4,335 steamers’in 1872, plus 460
built in 1873, give a total of 4,795 steamers in 1873, and of about 5,250 in
1874.
In factories great numbers of hands are often thrown out of employ¬
ment for a long time by the breakage of main driviog shafts, and the loss
inflicted upon owners and men by the stoppage of a mill in consequence is
very severe. By employing one of this Company’s couplings, a fractured
shaft can be restored to work almost immediately.
It is proposed to make immediate arrangements for the manufacture of
the Company’s couplings, and the result of careful estimates of the cost of
manufacturing them, and the price for which they can readily be sold
(assuming that only 10 per cent, of the vessels afloat adopt them), is that
the annual profits will yield a handsome percentage to the shareholders on
the nominal capital.
In the estimates above referred to, no account has been taken of the
number of couplings which it is believed will be required in factories,
mines, pumping works, and other undertakings, when once the Company
is in a position to supply the demand.
An eminent naval authority, Sir James ’Anderson, formerly Commander
of the steamship Great Eastern, has written a letter (Appendix No. 5) ap¬
proving of the invention. “The plan,” he observes, “is so simple and in¬
expensive that I should expect most steamship owners will be willing to
put them on board each steamer as a valuable alternative in case of acci¬
dent to the screw-shaft.”
No promotion money, beyond the cost of advertising and registration,
will be paid by the Company.
By agreements dated the 30th day of May, 1874, and the 7th of October,
1874, respectively entered into between H. Aguilar on behalf of the Com¬
pany on the one part, and Cromwell Fleetwood Varley on the other part,
the Company have secured this valuable patent for the sum of £15,000 in
cash and £35,000 in fully paid-up shares of the Company.
Application for shares must be made, accompanied by the deposit of £1
per share, to the Secretary or Bankers of the Company. When 1 a less
number of shares is allotted thah that applied for, the balance of tho de¬
posit will be applied in payment of the sum payable on allotment, and
where no allotment is made the deposit will be returned in full.
Prospectuses and Forms of Applications for Shares can he obtained from
the Brokers and Solicitors, and at the Temporary Offices of the Company,
and a model of the coupliog can be seen at any time at the Offices of the
Engineer, 2, Great Winchester-street-buildings, where the fullest explana¬
tion will be given.
The well-known Patent Agents, Messrs. Carpmael and Co., have reported
upon the validity of the patent, and upon the value of the invention. The
following is an extract from their opinion:—
“ I have also caused to be examined the specifications of all prior patents,
of which the titles refer to the coupling of shafts. Nothing has been found
to affect the validity of the above-mentioned patent, nor indeed anything
relating expressly to apparatus for coupling broken propeller shafts.
“ In my opinion the patent is good and valid, and the invention appears
to me to be valuable, and well calculated to attain the object for which it is
designed.
“ WILLIAM CAEPMAEL.
“ 24, Southampton-huildings, May 23rd, 1874.”
The successful application of the coupling demonstrating clearly its
practical value has been several times shown on board the steamer Era,
which is still running with her shaft secured by the patent coupling.
Opinions of the Press, and a list of casualties to steamers from broke n
shafts may be had at the Offices of the Company.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, Londyn, and published by E. W, Allen, Ave Maria-lano London E.C.
