No. 53.—(Vol. III.—No. 14.)
LONDON: JUNE 1, W3.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
Contents.
Medium^hip    210 j
Some Experiences and Conclusions regarding Spiritualism (No. V) 211 I
Spiritualism and Orthodoxy   214 |
Mr. Peebles in New Zealand     21G I
Spirit Lights and Forms  '     216 )
Materialised Spirit Sorms  217 I
Be view—Angfelique Amauld       217 I
Deduction and Induction     218 I
Idol Worship at Home   219 j
Poetry—“A Child’s Pras^er ”     220
Correspondence—The Two Brains; Spiritualism and Christianity; The
Bev. J. Murray Spear     220
Answers to Correspondents   221
Paragraphs—Spiritualism in the Channel Islands, 216: An Extract from
Samuel Pepy’s Diary, 217; Liberal Orthodoxy, 220; I’assid to Spirit
Life, 222; The Dialectical Report, 222; A Prophetic Dream. 222; Un¬
healthy Food for Children, 222; In a Trance, 222; A Spirit Child,
222; Education in O-reat Britain, 222.
The Best Book for’ Enquirers.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different j
phases of modern spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible |
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph- I
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by j
Scripture, and consistent with science and common reuse; with specimens I
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums, i
and all useful in'brmatiou. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings. Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks, |
Shares, &6„ effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, And on Saturdays |
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager. ,
Jl?Kri nnO ■Ready, to be ADVANCED by the TKM-
feBANCE PERMANENT LAND AND BUILDING
SOCIETY on Freehold and Leasehold Property, for any period of years
not exceeding fifteen, the Mortgage being redeemable by equal Monthly
Instalments. Interest (in addition to a small premium) a per cent, on the
balance each year.
Apply to HENRY J. PHILLIPS, Secretary.
Offices; 4, Ludgate Hill, London, E.C.
Note.—More than One Million and a Half Pounds Sterling have been
advanced upon House Property alone.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO !
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74,. Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £3 3s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
THOMAS WILKS, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasure!'.
The psychological society of Edinburgh
will hold the last meeting of the Summer Session in 5, St. Andrew-
square, on June 4th, at 8 p.m. precisely. Business:—Reports from the
Circle, Seance-Room, and Library Committees. Readings and Discussions
of Papers and other matters not overtaken during the past session.
W. J. FRASER, Hon. Sec.
DR. HUGH M‘LEOD, 4, ALMA COTTAGE, CHES-
nut-road, High-road, Tottenham. Patients and friends will please
to take a note, and correspond and visit as above. To strangers the highest
reference both in London and the country. May 22nd, 1873.
BRITISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to-Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Shares op £1 Each.
Head Offices: BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
thief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Bayford, LL.D., Senior Registrar, Court of Probate
Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man
cheater.
William GimberGoodliffe, Accountant General, India Office, Westminste
London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, STj, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent,
The system of Insurance carried out.by the “British Imperial”
(originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S.. &c., &c., of Sonierset House, and
adopted with some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and Convenience.
In Security, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issuetl upon English Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the
National English Life Table, compiled by the Registrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
"ORITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Ojffces.-BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding Confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee. ■ «.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications -invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.C., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEATEN OPENED.—Part II. being further descrip¬
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing tho
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Burns, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W.Allen, 11, Ave-Maria lane, E.C
Also Part I., price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
210
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 1, 1873.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
2%e Spiritualist is a very, good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist'" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
t City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be infonned of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
• The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals: —
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 3S3. Lorimer-street.
■New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco —Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.'
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-ehurehyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with-postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d., vWiich may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
MEDIUMSHIP.
The manifestations presented through physical and
other forms of mediumship are, in the present mate¬
rialistic age, so vitally necessary for the demonstration
of the truths of Spiritualism, that too much atten¬
tion cannot possibly be given to the development of
phenomena, and the care of mediums. For many years
the nature of mediumship has not been at all under¬
stood, but gradually, as experience is gained, some few
of the many difficulties hanging over the subject are
clearing away; so that it is now possible to lay down a
few rules for general guidance.
A medium is a mesmeric sensitive, always fond of the
physical, and occasionally the mental pleasures of life;
and the more pliable he is beneath the wills of others,
the greater are his powers as a medium. Powerful
physical manifestations are evidently usually, if not
always, produced by the lower and not the higher
spirits of the next world ; for the higher spirits appear
to have little direct power over common matter, unless
assisted by those below them, who are more tied down
to earth by the nature of their thoughts and affections.
Great power over common matter is often displayed in
haunted houses, and the spirits who make those disturb¬
ances are invariably of a low order, they having generally
committed some great crime during their earth-life in
the place haunted. Other spirits, not so low in the
moral scale, but still not very high, have much to do
with the ordinary physical manifestations produced
through mediums; these spirits appear to be working
their way into a higher state, by the good act of using
their power to demonstrate to mortals the reality of a
future life. Every now and then, however, when the
medium gets into a passion or into ;a bad state of
mind, or when persons unfit to sit in a spirit circle bring
bad spirits with them, some of the worst spirits occa¬
sionally get the power to act upon the medium. This
power sometimes lasts but for a few hours, but not
unfrequently for a few days, so as to influence the
manifestations at three or four successive seances.
"Where the medium is of low organisation, without
education and without high aspirations, the control of
bad spirits, in a very few extreme cases, is more per¬
manent, as in the instance of Sapia Padalino.
A person who has moderate medial powers, and does
not sit for manifestations often, has will enough of his
own to resist or throw off such influences. But as the
will-power of the spirits increases over the medium,
the individuality of the latter diminishes ; so the most
powerful- mediums are extremely sensitive to every good
and bad mental influence brought to bear upon them,
whereby they furnish one of the strongest arguments
against “ free-will,” in their particular instance, which
it is possible to have. It is perfectly clear that mes¬
meric sensitives of this kind ought not to be left to
battle with the world, and that if Spiritualists allow
them to do so, Spiritualists as a body are morally re¬
sponsible, to a very large extent, for the occasional
misdeeds of physical mediums.
There is a great and reasonable demand among Spi¬
ritualists for mediums through whom proofs of the
identity of departed friends may be obtained. But
when guardian spirits have the power, they may well
hesitate to reduce their medium to the requisite state of
sensitiveness to be easily controlled by spirits who have
recently left the body, possessing not only the virtues
but the vices and passions of earth. They see that the
mortals benefited take no pains whatever to help them
to remove or prevent the effects of bad influences. On
the contrary, the medium is usually left to battle with
worldly troubles. He ought to be free from all such
cares, should only sit for manifestations at regular and
not too frequent intervals, and then always in the pre¬
sence of friends who themselves are not attractive to
undeveloped spirits, and who possess knowledge enough
of mesmerism to prevent such spirits from exercising
lasting control over the medium. Mortals often possess
more power over the lower spirits than do the higher
order of disembodied beings, and more power to cut
short their control of a medium, if necessary.
A powerful physical medium, being a mesmeric sen¬
sitive, should always be under the care of some friend,
whether father, mother, husband or wife, such care being
the more necessary when the medium is uneducated, and
has not high aspirations. "When physical medwimship
is properly understood, and Spiritualists act up to their
knowledge, professional mediumship (for which life
mesmeric sensitives are utterly unsuited) will probably
become a thing of the past; at all events, the public
will only be able to obtain acce'ss to them
under well-defined and stringent conditions. These
remarks apply chiefly to physical mediumship,
many of the phenomena of trance and clair¬
voyance being .due to the action of higher spirits,
so as not to endanger the medium. Mr. Morse, for
instance, has been made to lead a better life by his
spirits ; they reasoned him, in a kind way, out of his
habit of smoking; next, they made a teetotaler of him;
and, lastly, they regulated his diet—in short, they have
attended for years to his bodily and spiritual welfare,
often against his own inclinations. Mr. Ashman, the
June 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
211
healing medium, has cured more, people of their dis¬
eases by spirit power than is recorded to have been done
. by all the Bible celebrities put together; and the same
ma)7 be said of Dr. Newton.
When physical mediums sit for miscellaneous persons,
the phenomena develope slowly, and do not advance
much from year to year. But if they cease professional
mediumship, and sit regularly and not too often in the
presence of the same persons, all thorough Spiritual¬
ists, then the phenomena develope with great rapidity.
It is only by the formation of such private circles, that
the development of the phenomena can be accelerated
and scientifically studied with efficiency. None but
thorough Spiritualists should have access to such circles.
Modest individuals who know nothing of Spiritualism,
and are perfectly willing to attend a seance as a favour,
to sit in judgment on mediums and some millions of
Spiritualists, should be politely told they cannot see the
best mediums, that their decision or opinion is of little
interest or importance to anybody but themselves, and
that they must do good work for a long time in Spirit¬
ualism before they are entitled to the privilege of access
to the best sensitives. The Astronomer Royal does not
permit any tyros in astronomy’ to meddle with his
instruments and to delay his researches at Greenwich
Observatory, neither does he permit persons totally
ignorant of astronomy to sit in judgment on him and
his results. Even so, as mediumship begins to be under¬
stood, will there be advanced circles for advanced
Spiritualists, access to which will be obtainable only by
those who understand spiritual conditions, and have
done prolonged good work for the cause of Spiritualism.
It is an injury7 to the cause of science to use the powers
of the best mediums for the less important work of
proselytising. Inquirers should have to begin at the
bottom of the ladder and to work their way up ; if they7
do not choose to give the necessary time and work, they
are persons whose conversion would do little good to
Spiritualism, and their best place is outside the move¬
ment, as it is unreasonable that they should ever be
allowed to harass, by their ignorance, a first class mes¬
meric sensitive.
SOME EXPERIENCES' AND CONCLUSIONS
REGARDING SPIRITUALISM.
No. Y.
BY J. H. GULLY, U.B.
Sincebb Spi i itualists should remember that the dis¬
embodied are sympathising with and urging us towards
evil if our spirits are open for evil, towards the greatest
good if we are yearning for it. In a word, the eternal
life, to us, should begin here on earth; our communion
with the best spirits out of the flesh should commence
whilst our own is in it: it is the only method of resisting
the evils and the false aims of our present earthly exist¬
ence. Saint Paul asked, “What manner of men ought we
to be unto whom the truths of the gospel have come ?. 1
And the like question may be put by a Spiritualist to
himself, when he reflects how this long contested ques-
tion of spiritual existence and communion has been
made clear to him; no longer a fluctuating belief pre¬
sented in .a misty, undefined manner, and therefore
easily avoided in its results, but with the spiritual body
as well defined as the flesh body, with its powers, sym¬
pathies, and mode of progress made clear and unmis-
takeable in their bearing on spiritual existence, whilst
we are on earth. To me, nothing can be more devoid
of motive, or chaiged with a lower motive, thru the
ordinary orthodox profession concerning the spirit.
As I have before said, the most bigoted opponent of
Spiritualism can give you no explanation whatever of
his idea of a spirit, and as to his motive for living as a
spirit, it is limited to his fear of everlasting torment
inflicted by an angryT God, or to his hope of reward
from the same God,—motives of the lowest character,
and based on the anthropomorphism continued from the
earliest and coarsest forms of paganism.
In making these remarks, I am very7 far from the
thought that Spiritualism is destined to become a rival
religion to any already existant; and God forbid that
it should ever become a Church ! Almost all religions
that have appeared had a spiritual beginning and spiritual
aims. The Egyptian, Jewish, Greek, Christian and
Mohammedan forms all commenced with the spiritual
worship of varied attributes of power, beauty, wisdom,
love; but so soon as they took the form of churches, so
soon as certain men put themselves forward as the
teachers of the religion, its spiritual character and
aims began to decline and to be obscured and replaced
by7 the worship of those very men, and by forms which
the worshippeis were too ready to accept as more easy
to attend to than the daily and hourly supervision of
the spirit within themselves. Then, too, came the low
motive of fear to be inculcated, for it is easier for a
priest to represent a God of Wrath than a God of Love ;
more easy to threaten than to persuade. Look at the
religion of Buddha, himself approaching divinity in his
wondrous spirituality of existence! Born a prince, he
at an early7 age quitted the pomp and luxuries of his
position, and gave himself entirely to the contemplation
of the interior life, thereby placed himself in com¬
munion with the highest spirits, and obtained that
insight into spiritual existence which formed the aim of
the religion which he promulgated. He taught, there¬
fore, that man must put his spirit so intimately and
constantly in connexion with the Central Spirit which
actuates all things, both those called material and those
called spiritual, that at length he shall obtain perfect
peace (nirwana), and be ultimately absorbed into that
central spirit. Look at Buddhism now, as it exists in
India and China! Anything more coarse, gross,
revolting, under the name of religion, it is impossible
to imagine; and why? Because priests got hold of
Buddha’s idea, established thereon a Church, told people
they would think for them, and ensure their reward, if
only they would follow certain forms; the forms multi¬
plied, were invented to meet the sensualities of the
worshippers, their spirits shrivelled from want of culti¬
vation, and lo ! the highest spirituality transformed into
the vilest, most debasing materialistic religion.
And what is the tendency of all churches but to
merge individual thought and responsibility^into secta¬
rian profession ? Belief is not an act, but a most intense
state of mind ; and is any one prepared to assert that
even of one thousand individuals, there shall be no
exception to precisely the same state of mind regarding
dogqaas which are always abstruse, mostly mysterious,
and often unintelligible ? And this question applies to
millions still more forcibly than to thousands. Enough
for the majority of sectarians is the fact that they be¬
long to this or that Church each spirit folds itself up in
its body complacently, attends to bodily7 and worldly7
pursuits, and considers its future assured for happiness
because it is on the roll call of some Church or sect.
In this way it is that when such a fact as Spiritualism
212
THE SPIRITUALIST.
is presented^ all sects and churches howl apathemas or
grin derision. You have thrown a bomb-shell into
their midst: you have roused a covey of owls and they
fly hooting; you bring to each spirit the proof of its
individuality and of its individual responsibility by
virtue of its communion with the low or the lofty of
another world. You ask them what a spirit is ? where
it is? where it is to be hereafter? and they cannot tell you
anything about it., because they have professed instead
of seeking and believing: they refer you to their priest
or minister, and he refers you to his office, and his office
is,—to dogmatise, to “ deal damnation round the land ”
and save others the trouble of thinking, of striving
patiently, pertinaciously, for light. Ro wonder that
Spiritualism flutters such a vicious circular arrange¬
ment as this ! Ho wonder that its definitions of spirit
and spirit life—definitions the results of accumulated
experiences —spread dismay among those who have been,
content with a loose profession of belief in a shadowy,
confused, and utterly undefined existence in the same
body of flesh after it has been in the earth, it may be,
of thousands of years.
No ; if there be one thing which it is necessary that
Spiritualists should guard against, it is the formation
into a sect; if there be one thing Spiritualism teaches,
more than another, it is the responsible action of indi¬
vidual man within his own spirit. In the vast spirit
world are the lofty and the grovelling, and it is in our
power to establish sympathy with either by the choice
of our single spirits: rapture or ruin, brightness or
darkness, is the fate of each spirit as it opens itself to
the influences of the intelligent and holy, or the
tyranny of the malicious spirits whom we know to
be ever near us, within electric call. All this cheering,
sustaining knowledge will go for nought if we form
ourselves into'sects and begin to denounce, on the
ground of invisible distinctions, instead of calling down
knowledge and power from around and above by indi¬
vidually surrendering our spirits to the fraternal love
which the bright disembodied tell us is their happy
estate. Already there is too much of swearing by this
or that medium, instead of gathering the facts from
each and adding them to the collection out of which
must be derived the general teaching, which is to place
us more and more in communion with the great and
good intelligences of the next phase of the spirits’
life. That it has pleased God to throw light upon our
real existence in these latter days by putting forward
physical organisations, by means of which spiritual
organisations may be manifested, should, in my mind, be
far too profound a cause for gratitude to permit of the
presence of antagonisms between those who have taken
hold of the glorious discoveries of which our mediums
have been the instruments. Hut such will assuredly
appear if anything like ecclesiasticism or hierarchy be
allowed to envelope the spiritual light thus accorded :
they will extinguish it, and we shall have a mass of
inert profession in place of the ever vivifying influx
from the bright, developed spirits around us into our
individual souls,- still oppressed as they are with flesh,
and needing all that celestial sympathy can afford
them.
If it be asked, “ Then you would not form a reli¬
gion out of Spiritualism ? ” I answer, “ No, unless the
word be confined, as it really was in its Latin original,
to a binding of duty to God.” All else comes under
the other Latin derivative, superstitio, in which men
set up rules and mark out tortuous ways by which alone
June 1, 1873.
God can be sought and approached, the ways being
themselves, and the rules the forms which cannot be
enacted without them. The root and core of Chris¬
tianity is beyond question a deep, tender, and lofty
spiritual philosophy, involving a continual cultivation
of the individual spirit in the non-corporeal and eternal
interests of its being, including no rules save the supe¬
riority of the spiritual over the material, and no forms
save the looking of the spirit inwards and upwards: all
else is dust and ashes added to, and suffocating, to the
god-like philosophy taught by Christ. Had that teach¬
ing been held as a philosojohy, had it never been over¬
laid and strangled in the devices and conflicts of theo¬
logians, had that sanguinary tyrant, Constantine, never,
for the ends of his tyranny, embraced the Christianity
of the theologians and petrified it into a state religion,
armed with the sword as well as the crozier, the hideous,
blood-stained pages of the history of Christianity need
never have been written, un-Christian London, Paris,
Vienna would not now be exhibiting every vicious
enormity that ever disgraced pagan, polytheistic Pome,
and after nineteen centuries, the sublime spirituality
announced by Jesus Christ could not have tolerated for
one moment a miserable and ludicrous contest about the
damnatory clauses of an Athanasian creed ! As a phi¬
losophy explanatory of the communion between the
man in the flesh and the man out of the flesh, and
between both and their common Source of Creation,
Spiritualism'cannot originate creeds and churches and
their attendant cursing of each other, for individual
spirit seeks individual light and strength, in the con¬
viction that from the spiritual world alone can these be
obtained, and that no spirit whatever in the flesh, is
in the condition even to receive any light by which he is
authorised to condemn to perdition any other soul, be
his belief what it may. The facts of Spiritualism are
in direct contradiction to this possibility : spirits come
to raise “ a small corner ” of the veil of the life-mystery;
they tell us that the sublimest facts of spiritual exist¬
ence would be unintelligible to us in our present
corporeo-spiritual state, but that meantime we approach
the nearest to that existence when we cultivate love,
charity, truth, and purity. They who would raise up
between us and those who thus teach us a wall of dogma
painted with the flames of a dogmatic hell and the
fiction of an avenging God, would do for Spiritualism
what the theologians did for Christianity—degrade it to
an earthly engine, a hollow profession, and a mask for
the earth-bound soul.
Philosophy is the love of wisdom, and surely it'must
be wise to commence at once the cultivation of that
portion of ourselves which is to endure for ever; in us
Spiritualists especially who know how it may be
effected by direct intercourse of thought with those who
live in the atmosphere of wisdom. But it would be
wisdom in those also who from early teaching are tied
and bound by the prevailing dogmatic theologies, in
those who talk of the Holy Spirit and profess belief in
the communion of saints, to set themselves to inquire
seriously into the meaning of both these professions;
and if they do so with hearty purpose they will, as
surely as day follows night, have a flood of light thrown
upon their present twilight ideas concerning these com¬
munions with the spirit of holiness. Nay, more, they
might be enabled to find a spiritual meaning behind
several of their professed beliefs, against which, in
their symbolic presentation, many a professor revolts
[ when he recurs to them in his Sunday formalisms ; the
213
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 1, 1873
divine nature of Jesus Christ, for instance, the influx
of a holy spirit at baptism and at the Eucharist, and the
resurrection of the body; whilst he will be certified in
the most definite manner ..of the doctrine of the eternal
life of the spirit. Spiritualism, in short, would give,
even to dogmatic Christianity, a lustre and power
which, as it is' now outwardly-and obscurely held, is
wofully incapable of throwing light on the pathway of
the soul towards the heavenly abodes, or aiding it over
the difficulties that beset it. Light is always at first
painful to those who live in a dark room; but once
accustomed to its rays, the eye rejoices in the pictures
and ornaments which bedeck its walls, and had been
previously taken for granted, but never made a source
of delight. So it would be with those believers who
stand in the old theological rooms. Spiritualism would
tell them of joy and beauty, where they groped in the
darkness of dread. Spiritualism would cause them to
sing like the heavenward lark, instead of rushing and
hooting like thedismalowl of night. E-everend and learn¬
ed gentlemen rail against dark seances and connect them
with imposture : what say they to one long dark seance
of an entire earthly life, knowledge forbidden, light shut
out, the spirit sitting with a cloak of human dogma for
all its covering, which, whilst it warmsnot the shivering
soul, binds it round so tightly as to prevent that exer¬
tion which would bring to it the light-giving heat that
can alone be obtained by never-ceasing strivings to rise
unto its fellows and its Father above?
Another use of Spiritualism, which is sufficiently
obvious, is the more enlightened and philosophic view
of the function of dying which it affords. Long before
the subject entered upon its modern phase, physiolo¬
gists and pathologists had suggested that the mere act
qf dying could not be a painful, not often even a dis
tressing sensation; but they were sorely puzzled to
account for some frequent cases in which the convul¬
sions and contortions of the body seemed to indicate
agony, and render hideous one of the kindest acts of
providential nature. Spiritualism has taught that
these movements are* the indications of the gathering
up of all the interior forces which actuated the body,
their concentration in the brain, and their re-formation
about and above the brain in the shape of the spirit-
body : confirming Swedenborg’s statement that, call
these forces what we may whilst working within the
form of flesh, they, combined, constitute the spirit
which was the living man, and is now the eternal man.
Physical pain and distress long antecede this final exit
of the spirit; the last movements are entirely those of
the spirit-body to withdraw itself from the tissues
which it had actuated, and before it reaches those
movements, the consensus of all the bodily organs has
been so broken up as to render them incapable of the
sensations which constitute the recognition of pain.
We speak of nerve force, muscular force, secretory
force, &c.; but all these are but the one spirit force'
exhibited through different aggregations of chemically
changeable matter. Whilst this chemistry is maintained
in correct action by care in the application of the agents
directed to it (and that care is the duty of the interior
spirit), there is health, for each tissue is then an instru-
pient through which the spirit can play harmoniously ;
when the chemistry is defective, there is disorder and
disease, for the spirit has a defective instrument on which
to play; and when, as happens to all chemically con¬
stituted' bodies whatever, flesh, vegetable, or mineral,
lu more or less time the chemistry becomes altogether
subverted by the incessant play of extraneous agents,
the spirit, having no longer any tissues to play upon,
leaves what is now not fitted for its sphere of activity,
in the midst of coarse and chemically changeable mat¬
ter : and this is death. In all this, where is the
special cause for horror and dismay ? As regards the
body of flesh, it is an instance of pure negation and
exhaustion of sensation; the tissues cannot cause sensa¬
tion, because their chemical combination is broken up.
The real action in the process of death is that of the
spirit; struggling to leave the body of flesh, it may well
ofttimes shake its bulk in irregular acts of convulsion
and distortion; and one can readily picture that during
that struggle, and when it is half effected, the spirit
should see, now through the eye-balls, and again with¬
out them—should have, in short, a glimpse of both
worlds at the same time, even as my spirit-child has
promised to me. There are instances, and not few, iu
which the strong will of the spirit has continued to
operate on the nervous tissues, and maintained the
phenomena of corporeal life, which but for that would
have ceased many hours sooner. I have myself seen
several of these instances : one especially of a lady,
whose head being supported by my arm, in all tbe
helplessness of dying, the sight of one eye extinguished,
pulse gone Ht the wrist, the sweat of death upon her,
she set her lips firmly together, and said, “ I won’t die
this time;” and actually quoted the song—
She had but one eye, but that was a piercer!
She did die “ that time,” but not for several hours after
the pulse was not palpable in any degree whatever.
So, too, the spirit is sometimes held back by the attrac¬
tion of those of persons standing near. Shakespeare
knew this, and expresses it most piteously in the last
scene, where old Lear is passing away :—
Edgar.—Look up, my lord.
Kent.—Yex not his ghost. 0, let him pass! He
hates him
That would upon the rack of this tough world
Stretch him out longer.
In this process, also, much comfort is derived from the
definite character df it which Spiritualism imparts. It
is altogether dreadful to behold the mass of orthodox
people shrinking with horror and dread from an act
which, if they believe what they profess, should be wel¬
comed as the door from darkness to light, from trouble
to joy. Mors mea vita mihi is the truest of tomb¬
stone sayings ; but how few over whom it is written
felt it so when in’the body ! And why ? Because they
lived in the indefinite as regards all that concerned their
spirit and its life. Again, there are a vast number of
minds who unless a thing is presented to themin actual
form, cannot take it in at all, or who evade its conse¬
quences under the plea that, “ after all, it may not be
true.” When the desire to do wrong presses, such
minds are apt to say to themselves—“After all, this
future life and its penalties may be only a priest’s tale
to frighten us,” and straightway gratify the desire.
Such minds do really “ keep a conscience,” else the
hesitation would not occur to them, but they put it aside
for want of definiteness of idea concerning their own soul,
its offices, and its future. Bring Spiritualism home to
them as a definite proof of that and these, of the souls
character and destiny, and such minds will readily link
themselves with the unseen world, borrow power from
it, and strive in this world to live as if they were
already in that one. The certainty that if we stamp
not out utterly the spiritual spark within us, it will be
214
THE SPIRITUALIST.
blown at length into a flame of holiness and happiness,
in the air of spirit existence, where temptations of
earth can no longer reach us, is a grand motive for
living the spirit-life here—a motive which Spiritualism
alone has taught us, for the orthodox heaven is not
attainable save by vicarious shedding of blood. Shel¬
ley, in his exquisite monody on the deith of Keats,
entitled Adonais, gives this musical picture of the
escape of the spirit from the body in which it finally
“ ceases to burn —
He bath outsoared the shadow of our night!
Envy, and calumny, and hate, and pain,
And that unrest which men miscall delight,
Can touch him not and torture not again !
Erom the contagion of the world’s slow stain
He is secure, and now can never mourn
A heart grown cold, a head grown grey in vain :
Nor, when the spirit itself hath ceased to burn,
With sparkless ashes load an unlamented urn.
SPIRITUALISM AND ORTHODOXY.*
Peobably in no country in the world are the people
professedly more religious than in Great Britain ; and
yet, with all the variety of creeds and sects which
flourish amongst us, how few of them are there that
are capable of affording to the aching heart of one who
mourns the loss of a dear friend or relative! the true
consolation which we should naturally expect to find in
the Word of God !
If we seek for consolation for the loss of our friends
in the prospects of a future life which are afforded by
evidences existing outside the Bible, we find nothing
but vague uncertainty, and but little, if any, progress
since the time when Cicero wrote—u There is—I know
not how—in the minds of men a certain presage, as it
wTere, of a future existence, and this takes the deepest
root, and is most discoverable, in the greatest geniuses
and most exalted souls.” If we turn to the Bible we
certainly find some assurance of our immortality,'but
are left in the utmost ignorance and uncertainty as to
the nature and conditions of our future state ; and we
are almost forced to repeat the words of Dry den :—
But whither went his soul, let such relate
Who search the secrets of a future state ;
Divines can say but ^hat themselves believe,
Strong proofs they have, but not demonstrative;
For, were all plain, then all sides must agree,
And Faith itself be lost in certainty.
The universal fear of death, which disgraces, one
might almost say, most if not all who “ profess and call
themselves Christians,” certainly suggests that the
assurances of a glorious immortality, which are instilled
into the minds of mankind from their earliest youth,
are obviously inadequate to afford the satisfaction
which can only come of a belief that is based upon
positive knowledge as contrasted with blind faith.
Shakespeare’s lines are very suggestive of the state of
feeling which these doubts must give rise to :—
Death is a fearful thing !
To die, and go we know not where ;
The weariest and most loathed worldly life,
That age, ache, penury, and imprisonment
Can lay on nature, is a paradise
To what we fear of Death.
When we consider the vast variety and great
diversity of opinions that are held amongst all classes
of men in our various religious sects, and which all
* We quote this from the useful little book, Where are the Dead?
JiOndon: Simpkin, Marshall, and Co. 1873.
June 1, 1873.
profess to base their doctrines and beliefs upon the
Bible, it is surely not surprising that some men should
anxiously seek elsewhere for the truth which it seems
impossible to extract from the professed Word of God.
Neither, on the other hand—when we consider how
little extraneous evidence of a future state, and even
(to some minds) of the existence of a Deity, is dis¬
coverable by the savans and philosophers of the present
century—is it surprising that the bulk of mankind
should prefer to cling to the Bible as the only Divine
revelation. Mr. Gladstone, the Prime Minister, in a
remarkable speech upon education and religion, deli¬
vered at the Liverpool College, in December, 1872,
censured severely the growing scepticism of the present
age, and referred particularly to the learned' German
theologian, Dr. Strauss, and his latest work, entitled
The Old Belief and the New, wherein the author
(whom even Mr. Gladstone speaks of with the greatest
respect) confesses himself a rank atheist and mate¬
rialist, denying the existence of a personal God or a
future state ; and suggests that we should no longer call
ourselves Christians, that religious worship ought to he
abolished, and that the very name of Divine service is an
indignity to man. Mr. Gladstone testifies to the great
ability of the author, whom he mentions “ with the
respect which is justly due, not only to his ability and
knowledge, but to his straightforward earnestness,”
and adds weight to the opinions thus expressed, by
informing us that they are not the mere dreams of a
high-wTought enthusiast, but “ the grave conclusions,
after elaborate reasoning, of a learned, a calm, and, so
far as form is concerned,^ sober-minded man, who in
this very year has been commended to us in England
by another apostle of modern thought as one of the
men to whose guidance we ought, if we are wise, to
submit ourselves in matters of religious belief.” That
these are not the opinions of Germans only, we are also
informed upon the authority of Mr. Gladstone, who
tells us “ there are many writers of kindred sympathies
in England, and some of as outspoken courage.” Surely
these are weighty words coming from a prime minister,
and sufficiently prove how scant is the comfort which
we can hope for, touching the fate of our departed
friends and relatives, from the leaders of science and
modern thought, who tell us, like Strauss, that the
dead live in the recollection of the survivors, and that
this is enough for them !
Apropos of the opinions of modern writers and
thinkers touching the future state, and by way of con¬
trast to the cold comfort of Strauss on the one hand
and the joyous certainty of Spiritualism on the other,
it may be interesting to quote the conclusions of a
thoughtful and able writer, Mr. W. R. Greg, whose
volume, Enigmas of Life, was recently very favourably
reviewed by the literary journals. “ The existence of
a wise and beneficent Creator,” says the author, in his
preface, “ and of a renewed life hereafter are still to me
beliefs, especially the first, very nearly reaching the
solidity of absolute convictions. The one is almost a
certainty, the other a solemn hopeT . . . . “ Of abso¬
lute knowledge we have simply nothing.” Further on
he observes, “ that a sense of identity, a conscious con¬
tinuity of the ego, is an essential element of the doc¬
trine;” whilst “it is more than probable that our
imagination is utterly incapable of picturing or con¬
ceiving, or even conjecturing or approaching, the actual
truth about the unseen world, it is certain that our
reason will find no difficulty at all in demolishing or
June 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
215
discrediting every concrete and systematic conception
we might form.”
It is my object to endeavour to supplement the defi¬
ciencies of the Bible testimony regarding the life to
come, by pointing out how—instead of trusting to
blind unreasoning faith—we can, if we will, obtain
abundant positive evidence upon the subject, sufficient
on the one hand to clear up all doubts which conceal
the truth lying beneath the Bible narratives and the
innumerable creeds that are based upon it, and power¬
ful enough on the other hand to explode the meta¬
physical subtleties of the German theologian and his
English admirers. This evidence 'consists of stubborn
facts, such as will enable any reader, who may take the
trouble to investigate for himself the proofs adduced,
at once to transcend all the fruitless speculations of
modern or ancient philosophy.
And first, in reference to the state of our present
knowledge of the life to come. Can anyone conscien¬
tiously affirm that the Bible satisfies all our wants in
this respect, and that we ought to have no curiosity
regarding the future ? "What do we really know ?
Absolutely nothing ! We hear a great deal about the
necessity of salvation through Christ from damnation
and eternal torments, the just reward for our so-called
natural depravity. We are led to believe that we are
all children of the devil, who “ goes about like a roar¬
ing lion seeking whom he may devour,” and that he
presides over a place of physical torture in “ everlasting
fire.” On the one hand we are told, in the Athanasian
Creed, that there will be a final day of judgment,
when % all men shall rise again with their bodies, and
shall give account for their works ; and they that have
done good shall go into life everlasting, .and they that
have done evil into everlasting fire ; ” and on the other
hand we talk of our departed friends and relatives as
having gone to heaven, and being already angels ; hut
of these same, angels, and their life and occupation (if
they have any) we know absolutely nothing. Some
believe that they sing for all eternity, are possessed of
gorgeous wings, and stand round a great white throne,
with palm leaves in their hands; whilst, on the other
hand, the Homan Catholics believe that they do not go
to heaven until they have passed through purgatory.
Christ is said to have promised to the thief, “ this day
shalt thou be with me in Paradise,” and yet, in the
Apostles’ Creed, which is repeated Sunday after Sunday
in church, we say, we believe that Christ descended
into hell, and did not ascend into heaven until the
third 'day. Others, again, believe that the soul falls'
into a kind of sleep or lethargy on the death of the
body, and talk of “ sleeping in Jesus,” although we are
informed in the Bible that Lazarus went at once to
heaven and the rich man to hell.
When we consider the prospect held out by St.
Matthew, chapter xxv., for the future state of the
wicked, where we are led to believe that the Son of
an all-wise and all merciful God thus will address
them:—“Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting
fire, prepared for the devil and his angels,” it can
hardly be said to accord with those notions of justice
which God has planted in every human soul, to believe
that He would thus deal with fallible human beings.
The monstrous injustice of such a sentence becomes, all
the more apparent when we are told in the Thirty-nine
Articles of the Church of England that “ original sin is
the fault and corruption of their nature,” whereby they
are “ of their own nature inclined to evil, so that the
flesh lusteth always contrary to the spirit, and there¬
fore in every person born into'this world it deserveth
God’s wrath and damnation.”
Again, when we consider the extraordinary contra¬
dictions we meet with in the orthodox theology upon
such an important matter as the fate of our departed
friends, we can well understand how sad and comfort¬
less are the teachings of the Church, if such ^doctrines
are really credible. How little hope can there possibly
be of our ever again meeting many of our dearest and
best friends (and those, not unfrequently, the most
erring), when we consider how few of them can be
regarded as good enough for heaven. On the other
hand, how cheerless must be the thought, in connection
with such stray sheep, that they were only fit for
hell,—a conclusion which it seems the height of
cruelty and injustice to sanction.
What is to become of our rich men of whom Christ
himself said, it is easier for a camel to go through the
eye of a needle than for a rich man io enter into the
kingdom of God ? Are they only fit for hell and
eternal damnation ?
Again, since Mark xvi. tells us—“ He that believeth
not shall be damned,” we must assume that all Uni¬
tarians and Jews, including thousands of other good,
learned, sincere, and honest men, are doomed by their
Maker, whom we call an all-merciful God, to everlast¬
ing torments,- because their minds are unable to under¬
stand and believe what we confess in our Athahasian
Creed to be “ incomprehensible.” Surely it is more
consistent with our notions of a just and merciful
Father that He would be as forgiving as was Christ,
who, when praying for His murderers, said—“ Father,
forgive them, for they know not what they do.”
Haying now alluded to the unsatisfactory nature of
the Bible evidences touching the life beyond the grave,
in giving us no choice between heaven and hell,—-ever¬
lasting life and eternal damnation,—and having also
shown how much more cheerless are the wretched con¬
clusions of the materialists, I need no longer hesitate
to point to the only possible key w?hich is to unlock
these doubts and mysteries, and which (while entirely
confuting the sapient conclusions of the conceited phi¬
losophers who tell us there is no God, and that immor¬
tality is a “ delusion and a snare”) will, nevertheless,
afford ample comfort to the Bible student, from the
fact of its according in the main with his favourite
authority. In fact, so far from imperilling the authen¬
ticity of the Scriptures, it will add intensely to the
interest of their perusal, by shedding an entirely new
light upon hundreds of Bible narratives that must have
always appeared mysterious and inexplicable even to
the most ardent believer in the “ Word of God.”
This key, then, which is to solve the problem of immor¬
tality, and once for all settle all speculations on the
subject of .man’s destiny, is Spiriiualism.
We are glad to be able to state that, according to infor¬
mation received last Wednesday night from Enmore-park, Mr.
Enmore Jones was considerably better.
Miss Adelaide Claxton is an artist who possesses rare
ability in painting ideal supernatural scenes ; she has depicted
many a baronial hall, with its ancestral spectre standing in
the moonlight; in such matters she shows a leaning to the
beautiful rather than to the horrible. Our attention was first
arrested by her pictures from the accidental circumstance of
seeing some of them in the shop window of Mr. Dowdeswell,
of Chancery-lane, who at present has on view many exceedingly
beautiful water-colour paintings of heads of ladies, executed
with unusual good taste and skill by Miss Florence Claxton/
216
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Juke 1, 1873.
MR. PEEBLES IN NEW ZEALAND.
On Wednesday, February 26th, Mr. J. M. Peebles lectured
on Spiritualism at the Oddfellows’ Hall, Christchurch, New
Zealand. Mr. M. B. Hart presided. The Christchurch Daihj
Press published a report of the lecture two columns long,
from which we make the following extract: —
Organise circles in your own houses. But how ? Let
Several sincere and congenial persons arrange business-like
for two or three seances per week. Meet at the same house,
the same number at the same hour, and sit round the same
table, laying the palms of the hands upon it. Shut the doors,
admitting none after the seats have been taken. Bead some¬
thing relating to the pure and the heavenly; sing a cheerful
hymn or spiritual song, and then in the quietness of your
souls pray for the ministrations of spirits and angels—for
manifestations from the “ loved ones in Heaven,” and, after a
few days or months, you will have motions, sounds, writings,
and trances, or visions. “ Ask, and ye shall receive,” was a
Scriptural promise. But “ how did spirits control mediums
to produce manifestations ?” How did sunbeams paint human
features ? How did the magnet lift the bit of steel ? How
did the biologist control his subject? There were some
twenty-four phases of mediumship. Paul mentioned several
of them in the 12th chapter of 2 Corinthians—mesmerism,
impression, electro-biology, psychology, clairvoyance, and
trance were all inter-related as branches connected with the
“ tree of life.” The “virtue” that “ went out” of Jesus was
not a moral principle, but vital force, and all force when
reduced to the last analysis was spiritual. ' To illustrate how
spirits controlled mediums psychologically, Mr. Peebles
related an instance of his placing his thumb upon the ulna
nerve of a young man’s hand, which, with the exercise of the
will power, so completely psychologised the youth, that lie
would leap, fish, hunt, dance, sing—do anything that the
operator willed him to do. Now, said the speaker, supposing
I had “ died ” the next day—the body only dies—the ego, the
conscious spiritual man, or myself would live in spirit life,
and accordingly, as a spiritual man disrobed of the physical
vestures, I again approach the young.lad, and, spiritually
psychologising, cause him to become spasmodic, and then to
speak the thoughts I will to be spoken. This latter state is
called the trance condition. Before the supposed death I was
a psychologist, and the lad, my subject; now I am a spiri¬
tual psychologist, and the young man is my medium.
The law of control was the same, therefore when men said
that Spiritualism was mesmerism and electro-biology, they
said right of one phase of mediumship. It was all natural,
and.all the phases might be explained upon natural principles.
While he admired the phenomena and philosophy of true
Spiritualism, because reasonable, as well as in consonance
with the religion of Jesus and the spiritual gifts of the
apostles, still the practical and moral power it exerted was to
him the most interesting. The good John Wesley once said
—“ I am sick of opinions, give us the pure practical life.’’
And the poet Leigh Hunt, in his “ Abou Ben Adhem,” had
put the same thoughts in verse. Spiritualism had revealed
in a truer light the law of compensation ; opened to anxious
eyes a revised geography of the heavens, and convinced multi¬
tudes of Atheists and Deists of a future conscious existence.
Unbarring the gates of death, it had brought the loved in¬
habitants of the summer land into our cities, our homes, our
chambers, permitting us to touch their shining hands and
listen to the music of their voices. With the wand of clair¬
voyance it had scanned ocean beds, described geologic strata,
suggested new planets, and measured starry distances, while
conservatives were laggardly adjusting their instruments of
observation. Under the name of psychometry, it had read by
aural emanations the unwritten histories of Egyptian pyra¬
mids and Assyrian ruins ; of Grecian culture and Druidic
worship, and could trace the life line of mortals by the touch
of ringlet or garment. While showing the naturalness of con¬
verse with the spirit-world by sympathy, vision, trance, im¬
pressions and inspirations, the tendency of Spiritualism was
to elevate the thoughts, encourage fidelity, spiritualise the
aifections, induce true righteousness, and promote the prin¬
ciples of fraternity and equality. As a moral power, it was
eminently apostolic. Its prayers were good deeds ; its music
the sweet breathings of guardian angels ; its ideal, the Christ-
life of perfection, and its temple the measureless universe of
Gpd,
SPIRIT LIGHTS AND FORMS.
On Saturday evening, May 24th, a semi-public seance was
held at the rooms of Mr. C. E. Williams, professional medium,
61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, Hoi born, W.C. These Saturday
evening seances are for Spiritualists only, and as the visitors
consequently understand some of the conditions with which
sitters should comply, the manifestations are usually strong
and good. On Saturday, the 24th, the proceedings began
with a dark mmee, at which, while both Mr. Williams’s hands
were held, a playing musical box about a foot long, and
weighing many pounds, flew about the room many times with
great velocity, and touched the heads of all the sitters gently
in its flight. Flickering lights were seen in the air, and a
thick welded iron ring passed on to the arm of a City mer¬
chant who held one of Mr. Williams’s hands, without the
hands being disjoined to permit the threading of the ring on
the arm by natural means ; this is now a common manifesta¬
tion at Mr. Williams’s seances. The spirits John and Katie
King talked to the sitters, and several of the ordinary phe¬
nomena of dark seances were observed.
Afterwards there was a sitting for the spirit form. Mr.
Williams was bound to one of the end seats of the cabinet
with thin cord, and in about ten minutes John King, robed in
white, came out of the door at the other end, the door being
three or four feet from Mr. Williams. The observers were in
darkness, and John King brought his own light in the shape
of a luminous oval crystal, about five inches long by three
broad ; it emitted a phosphorescent but strong kind of light;
it was perfectly steady at all parts, and there was no smoke
or smell. Its luminosity died steadily away in from two to
three minutes ; then he had to return to the medium as if to
replenish the light in some way. He said that Katie was
working hard to show himself (John King) and the medium
at the same time, also that this would be one of the manifes¬
tations of thq future ; the manifestation would be first seen
in circles composed of pure spiritual people, in whose minds
not a doubt as to the integrity of the medium existed. The
spirits would be able to produce the result better in an open
room than in a cabinet ; perhaps the best condition would be
to let Mr. Williams lie on a sofa, and he (John King) expected
to be seen floating over him.
The spirit then asked a gentleman who possessed medial
powers, to look in at one of the windows of the cabinet, and
he would try what he could do then. The witness said he saw
John King floating near the top of the cabinet, the lower part
of which was so dark that he could only see the hair of the
top of Mr. Williams’s head, as it was illuminated by the
crystal moving over it. Mr. Williams is deeply entranced all
the time that John King shows himself.
After the sitting, Mr. Williams was found bound as at the
beginning. We have the name and address of the influential
gentleman who tied him ; he is skilled ht such work, and is a
perfectly bona fide witness in the matter.
Me. J. M. Peebles intends to visit England after he
has completed his lecturing tour in New Zealand.
Spibititaltsm in the Channel Islands.—The Guern¬
sey Mail, of May 17th, gave much information about Spirit¬
ualism and its literature, in the course of a very fair review of
Mr. Newton Crosland’s interesting little book on “ Appa¬
ritions.” A letter by Mr. Crosland on Spiritualism was pub¬
lished in the Guernsey Mail, of May 24th, and in the course of
his remarks Mr. Crosland said :—“ Consider, for a moment,
how we Spiritualists are handled by our opponents. A., B.
and 0. spare no pains and labour in the careful observation
and solution of certain wonderful and miraculous phenomena ;
and for this investigation A. B. and C. possess special oppor¬
tunities and experience. D., E. and F., who have kept
themselves in the ordinary track of thought and life, and
entirely aloof from exceptional conditions, immediately try to
prove theoretically that A., B. and C. could not have wit¬
nessed the incidents they described, or that these observers
were entirely mistaken in their interpretation of the pheno¬
mena. That is to say, the learnedly ignorant set to work to
teach the practically well-informed! This treatment of
A., B. and C. by D., E. and F. is termed philosophical
method. Risum teneatis ? -Can we restrain our merriment ? ”
The newspapers in the Channel Islands cannot do better than
quote from the last page of this journal the instructions “ How
to form Spirit Circles,” thus enabling many of their readers to
discover, in the privacy of their own families, whether
Spiritualism is true or not.
June 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
21
Iftebieto.
MATERIALISED SPIRIT FORMS.
LAST Wednesday evening, afc a seance at Mr. Henry Cook’s,
Hackney, four more positive photographs on glass were taken
by the magnesium light, of the materialised spirit form of
Katie King. One of the Daily Telegraph correspondents, the
author of the Unorthodox London letters, bound the hands of
Miss Cook (the medium) together with tape, sealed the knot
between the wrists with wax, stamped by his signet ring,
then he fastened her to the floor inside the cabinet with the
long end of the tape from the wrists, and brought the same
end of the tape out of the cabinet, and tied it to a chair. The
tapes and seals were perfect at the close of the seance. The
witnesses were also Dr. J. M. Gully, of Malvern; Miss
Katherine Poyntz (whose vocal abilities are so well known) ;
the two Misses Withall, of Brixton ; Mr. H. Withall, Mr. G.
R. Tapp, and Mr. Harrison.
At a previous seance, Katie made an attempt to show her¬
self and Miss Cook to all the company at the same time, a
manifestation which, she says, she hopes to be able to give in
the future. The result of the first trial is shown in the follow¬
ing certificate, which was drawn up by Mr. Luxmoore, who is
one of the Justices of the Peace for the county of Devon :—
We, the undersigned, wish again to record our testimony
that at Miss Cook’s seance on the 12th Katie came out of the
cabinet ih full length, under the same test conditions as to
searching and tying as on the 7th of May, but with this addi¬
tion, that Miss Corner (who was at the left of the cabinet,
and at a favourable angle for seeing anything within) declared
she saw Miss Cook and Katie at the same time ; the position
in which the remainder of the circle sat would not admit of
their distinguishing anything inside. It would probably—
except for the fact of Miss Cook and Katie having been seen
at the same moment—have been unnecessary to publish what
may, perhaps, be termed another certificate relating to our
photographic proceedings under test conditions.
Amelia Cokner, 3, St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney.
Caroline Corner, 3, St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney.
J. C. Luxmoore, 16, Gloucester-square, Hyde-park.
William H. Harrison, Chaucer-road, Herne-hill.
G. R. Tapp, 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-
park, London, N.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge is now in Philadelphia, giving
professional lectures on physiological subjects. Mr. and Mrs.
J. Murray Spear are also in Philadelphia.
An Extract prom Samuel Peprs’ Diary.—“This
evening with Mr. Brisband, speaking of enchantments and
spells, I telling him some of my charms. He told me this, of
his own knowledge, at Bordeaux, in France. The words were
these:—
“Voyci un corps mort,
Royde come un Baston,
Froid comme Marbre,
Leger come un esprit,
Levons le au nom de Jesus Christ.”
He saw four little girls, very young ones, all kneeling, each of
them upon one knee ; and one began the first line, whispering
in the ear of the next, and the second to the third, and the
third to the fourth, and she to the first. Then the first began
the second line, and so round quite through; and putting
each one finger only to a boy that lay flat upon his back on
the ground, as if he was dead. At the end of the words, they
did with their forefingers raise this boy as high as they could
reach ; and Mr. Brisband being there and wondering at it, as
also being afraid to see it, for they would have had him to
have bore a part in saying the words, in the room of one of
the little girls that was so young that they could hardly make
her learn to repeat the words, did for fear there might be some
slight used in it by the boy, or that the boy might be light,
call the cook of the house, a very lusty fellow, as Sir
G. Carteris’s cook, who is very big; and they did raise him
just in the same manner. This is one of the strangest things
I ever heard; but he tells it me of his own knowledge, and I
do heartily believe it to be true. I inquired of him whether
they were Protestant or Catholic girls, and he told me they
were Protestants, which made it more strange to me.”— Vol.
3, page 60.
Angelique Arnauld. By Frances Martin. New volume
of the Sunday Library. Macmillan and Co.
This is a most interesting history. Whilst Ange¬
lique was abbess of Port Royal, there were some of
those instances of supernatural power which have con¬
firmed many in the belief that the age of miracles was
not alone that of Christ and His disciples, but that
it has continued down almost, if nut altogether, to our
own days. Miss Martin has, however, preferred to
dwell upon the human history of Port Royal; she dis¬
misses the miracle of the Holy Thorn with even less
ceremony than did the arch-sceptic Gibbon. But in
doing thus she is only the more faithful to the true
character of Angelique Arnauld and her nuqs, of whom
Racine complained so naively, that they always took
particular care to conceal from the eyes of men as
much as they could, not only their austere mode of
living, but even the knowledge of those miracles which
God from time to time worked in their monastery.
The reader of this pleasant and instructive volume will
find so much to admire in the pure and holy aspira¬
tions of the great abbess—more truly a saint than hun¬
dreds of those whom the Roman Church h$,s canonized
—that he will love the simple facts of it even more
than the most wonderful miracles which are said to
have happened through her means, but will regret, at
the same time, that a spirit so pure should have been
so governed by priestcraft and dogma, and should have
fancied she was serving God by living a comparatively
useless life out of the world, instead of a practical life
in it. Her vigorous protests for truth and right are
more valuable than the marvellous cures which are
related to have been worked upon those who were so
happy as to have touched her shroud. Miss Martin has
told her story in the clearest, most sympathetic manner,
and yet, whilst pointing out her heroine’s virtues, she
has not scrupled to show us her weaknesses. We
recommend the volume to our readers as an interesting
picture of life inside a convent. The following quota¬
tion shows that even nuns, living in the odour of sanc¬
tity, may practise cruelties on each other of which the
profane vulgar of the outside world would be both
incapable and utterly ashamed:—
“ We learn from others something of the humiliations to
which she was exposed at this time, though no word on the
subject escaped her own lips. She entered her noviciate
again, and was condemned to humiliations that the other
novices did not endure; she bore them so patiently, that the
hearts of many were touched. Shortly after her resignation,
she was sentenced to perform penance before the sisterhood
assembled in the chapter-house ; she was bareheaded and
barefooted, and as the pavement of the newly-completed
building was very damp, she suffered severely in consequence.
Among other things, she was told at this meeting not to
imagine that she had done anything remarkable in resigning
her abbey; she had done no more than her duty. Sister
Gamier, the nun who loved her, had her eyes fixed upon her,
and says that she seemed “ incredibly composed.” The sisters
were after this forbidden to address her on any subject; she
was condemned to absolute silence; and many of the nuns
seemed to take delight in depreciating her and expressing
their love and esteem for the new abbess and prioress in her
presence.
“ Three or four months after the election she was sent to
the schoolroom as mistress of the convent pupils, and she also
swept their rooms, and performed all kinds of menial duties
under the direction of the new prioress. She was very fond of
children, and easily gained their affection. Each child
thought that the good sister loved her the best of all; and
although they tried to find out her favourites, they could not
218
THE SPIRITUALIST.
do so; neither did they discover that she really greatly dis¬
liked a little -troublesome discontented child, with no signs
of “ grace,” to whom she was so kind, that this little one was
supposed to be her special pet. She treated the Abbess Gene¬
vieve with profound respect, speaking to her on her knees, and
kneeling whenever she met her, and she taught the children
to render her implicit obedience. Some childish fault of her
pupils was once reported to the abbess, and visited with severe
and unmerited punishment. Ang^lique addressed the chil¬
dren on the subject; she was too honest to magnify the fault,
which, she said, was not so great as the abbess thought, but
she upheld the authority of her superior, and told them that
they must submit to the punishment which the reverend
mother had inflicted.
“ It was considered necessary to humiliate Angelique still
further, and we cannot but marvel at the malignity and petty
spite of the penances devised. Several times in the refectory a
so-called history of her life was read aloud before the sisters,
which was a tissue of insult and untruth. She was accused of
going to church “ as dirty as a pig,” and was told, in conclu¬
sion, that if she was appointed abbess of the Monastery of
the Holy Eucharist, of which there was already some talk, she
would make it “ a dirty, disorderly house, like Port Royal.”
The humility of the nunjrad not quite extinguished the pride
of the" Arnaulds or the truth and integrity of her nature ; and
she continued to eat her dinner unmoved. After dinner the
prioress asked why she had gone on eating during the reading,
and she answered that “ she was not thinking about it.” In
addition to the silence within the convent to which she had
been condemned, she was not allowed to correspond with
Agnes, or to communicate with her friends at the parlour-
wicket. The letters from St. Francis de Sales, which she
had looked upon not a3 a private treasure, but as a valuable
possession of the monastery, were torn up, and used to cover
jars of preserves. She bore all in silence, and without a
murmur, but after two, years of this treatment, still further
humiliations were devised, and she was subjected to innumer¬
able petty indignities. Once, when all the sisters and pupils
were in the refectory, she was told to rise from the table, and.
a basket full of the most disgusting filth was put round her
neck. She was led in succession to all the refectory tables by
a nun, who said, “ Look, my sisters, at this wretched creature,
whose mind is more full of perverse notions than this basket
is of filth.” Angdlique gravely thanked the sister who had
devised this mortification for her, but she said afterwards she
thought she should have heaved her heart up at the horrible
stench.
“ Another time, she entered the refectory wearing a large
paper mask, on which was written, ‘ My sisters, pray to God
for this hypocrite. Pray to God, and ask Him to make her
conversion a real and not a pretended one.’ ”
DEDUCTION AND INDUCTION.*
Truth is the pre-existent essence which we are
created that we may know, which we know that we
may love. This is the broad, all-inclusive fate—the
inescapable destiny of every conscious creature. We
have a spirit for the receptiqn and love of truth, and an
intellect for its discovery and interpretation. . . . The
character of intellect is determined by its method
toward truth ; and, for convenience, we will at once
give each of the two. recognised methods its proper
name, of inductive or masculine, and deductive or
feminine. They start from the opposing ends of a lin^1,
and lead toward each other. ... Of these methods,
the former works from without, where it begins with
forms and phenomena (the sensible signs of truth)
inward towards trutji itself; the latter from within,
where it begins with truth, outward to an acquaintance
with its sensible signs. . . . The inductive learner
commences the study of forms and facts, ignorant both
of them and of the truth they will disclose. The
deductive ibreknows what they will ev'olve. The one
by slow, laborious, rude paths—confused and conflicting
inquiry—progresses towards truth ; the other is already
in the sacred presence, and goes to the kingdoms of
* Quoted from Woman and her Era, Yol. II,, Chapter 3.
June || 1873.
form, force, and relation, not for proof of truth, so
mnph as for the pleasure of acquaintance with her finer
and more detailed lineaments; the delight of familiar
knowledge of the actual of nature, which is the phy¬
siognomy of truth; as one feeling and acknowledging
the power and greatness of an artist beforehand, would
therefore find the more pleasure in seeing his ■works.
The difference between the two conditions and methods
is that between two visitors to a vast and complicated
fortress, of whom one already knows the internal con¬
struction, strength, and resources, and is curious mainly
to see what is without the walls; while the other is
ignorant, alike of internal and external, and can only
learn the former slowly through the most intimate,
patient, and faithful study of the latter. At his best,
he would be long making this; under the insuperable
difficulties of the situation he would probably arrive at
many false conclusions from the appearances he beheld,
arid the chances would be at least several to one that
his theory when developed would embody nearly as
much of false as of true—nay, it might much more,
and have to be altogether set aside when all should be
disclosed. The history of masculine philosophy and
intellectual progress is fruitful in actual experiences
like this. Induction (as method) is the proof of truth,
implying a state of doubt till the truth is made. An
induction correctly made is a truth proved by its out¬
ward signs of fact or form. But a truth is no truer
proved than unproved ; it only thereby is made known
to the man who had no eye to see or spirit to welcome
it before. The inductive intellect is a stately host,
who keeps his divinest guest waiting on the threshold
till letters of introduction are produced—proofs of
origin and identity compared and continued; and the
blindness he suffers is such, that if false evidence bo in
sufficient amount, he is as likely to open his doors to
Beelzebub, well arrayed, as to the shining angel—the
evidence is so much plainer to his senses than the indi¬
vidual qualities of character to his inner faculties—so
much more weighty to his intellect than the Divine
Presence to his consciousness.
Deduction (as method) presupposes an intuitive per¬
ception of truth, and a state of trust in her presence,
or in her readiness to appear at any fit moment. A
deduction correctly made is the foreshowing of some
result (a form, phenomenon or event) of a truth
already known. The deductive intellect is a gracious
sweet hostess who recognises the heavenly visitant afar
off, and hastens to open wide the hospitable door and
lead the way to the fairest apartment. Proofs are not
required here. Each feels and knows each more infalli¬
bly than any evidence could prove them. Truth has
come to that soul, and the soul knows and joyfully
welcomes her. It is paradise henceforth where they
two are.
Human intelligence, as distinguished from Divine, is
inductive. The Divine employs truth, foreknowing
results from perfect knowledge of it. The hum spa has
to go to results for knowledge of that which produces
them. As distinguished from the experimental (induc¬
tive) method, the deductive is sometimes called the
ideal, because its discoveries are based npon ideas ante¬
cedent to any knowledge of the facts of those ideas.
Thus Columbus stated a deduction from the law of
sphericity in the earths; and the discovery of America
was the fact which verified his deduction. There
could have been no induction for Harvey’s discovery of
the circulation of the blood. . . . Thirty years after
June 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
219
Bacon, came the man who may he said to have been
on the ideal side, his analogue on the experimental one.
This was Descartes, of whom writes Mr. Buckle, “ The
least that can be said was, that he effected a revolution
more decisive than has ever been brought about by any
other single mind. Bacon rejected consciousness and
all internal action, as a trustworthy source of belief,
and declared that experimental proof was the only
proof. Descartes announced and defended the certitude
of consciousness and the sufficiency of the human
mind.” He refused to entertain first, external evidence
and went'straight to the innermost , of life—its con¬
sciousness. Clearly to see through that, he declared
was to see the truth. Hence acquaintance with her
ultimates was comparatively easy. . . “ But this deduc¬
tive method,” adds Mr. Lewes, speaking of Descartes and
his time, “ though premature, was puissant.” Science
is forced to employ it, and Bacon’s greatest error was
in not sufficiently acknowledging it. Hence we may
partly account for the fact that Bacon, with his cau¬
tious method made no discoveries, while Descartes, with
his premature method, made important discoveries.
IDOL WORSHIP AT HOME.
(From the Journal of the Anthropological Institute.)
In spending large sums of money every year in
sending missionaries to foreign countries for the con¬
version of the heathen abroad, we are very apt to
forget our own heathen at home. A reiteration of the
statement that there are heathens in London would fail
to excite any surprise. But when I assert that within
twenty-four hours’ ride of the “ Great City” there are
heathens proper—that is, bona-fide idol worshippers—
it may startle not a few of the pious people who keep
on good terms with their conscience by annually send¬
ing their mites to some missionary fund for the con¬
version of the Chickaboo Islanders. I must confess
that it is by no means comfortable, after boasting for
generations to all the world of our civilisation and
Christianity, to suddenly discover that in our very
midst is a race of barbarians, who, lacking the know¬
ledge of the true God, fall down and worship a wooden
image. But, however startling it may be, I assert that
it is positively true.
Off the West Coast of Ireland, in lat. 54 deg. 8 min.
H., and long. 10 deg. 12 min. W., are two islands known
as Inishkea, north and south. The word is Irish, and
signifies “ Inish,” an island, “ Kea,” a thorn-bush. So
that the name suggests that at some remote period
thorn-bushes were found there, though I observed,
during my recent visit, that the thorn-bush was con¬
spicuous by its absence. With the exception of one
hill, called Knocknaskea, the islands are perfectly flat.
The islanders are ruled by “ a king,” who is said to be
upwards of a hundred years of age. 'While having my
doubts on this point, I am bound to say that his majesty
is particularly hoary, and has certainly passed the
allotted three-score years and ten. He is a most agree¬
able monarch, and is much beloved by his subjects.
He has no suite or palatial residence, and his revenue
consists of a small percentage of the fish caught and
the potatoes grown. The habitations are mere hollow
heaps of stone, plastered over with mud, and thatched
with rushes and seaweed. In some of these wretched
hovels as many as eight and ten persons herd together,
with a goat or pig, and in many cases a cow, sharing
the accommodation with them.
But this description would not inaptly apply to many
other parts of Ireland; and even in some”of our agri¬
cultural districts the labourers are not much better off
in the matter of housing. But here is something that
will not apply, it is to be hoped, to any other part of her
Majesty’s dominions.
The religion of these islanders is confined to the wor¬
ship of a large wooden idol. This is no exaggerated
figure of the Virgin Mary, but a rudely-carved image of
a man, about eight feet high, dressed in a long flannel
gown. I could not ascertain that they have any par¬
ticular home for the god; and there seemed to be a
general desire on the part of the natives to preserve
a strict silence with respect to his saintship. It was
only after repeated solicitation that I was permitted to
visit the place where the idol is ,kept—a hut somewhat
larger than the surrounding ones, and which is used by
the natives as a place of worship. Owing to The situa¬
tion of the islands they are exposed to the full-force of
the Atlantic gales, and at such times the inhabitants
are unable to pursue their avocation of fishing, and in
consequence suffer great privations. The idol is then,
amid many lamentations, brought down to the shore,
and invoked to still the storm, the natives at the same
time prostrating themselves on the sand. Should the
gale cease, it is attributed, of course, to the interference
of the idol; but if, on the other hand, no abatement
takes place, it is the god’s will, and so he is sorrowfully
but reverently carried back to his domicile.
These poor people hold very little communication with
the outer world, and they have a tradition that they are
the descendants of a mighty giant, who, with his wife,
came from a beautiful and fertile island of great extent,
which was submerged by the Atlantic. They say that
this island was a perfect Paradise; that gorgeous plumed
birds flitted about and made the air melodious with ex¬
quisite music, while flowers of the most brilliant hues
bloomed perennially. They believe that the enchanted
island will some day rise again in all its loveliness, and
become the future home of the spirits of their departed
friends.
The seals, which abound on the rocky parts of the
shore, are regarded with profound veneration; and on
no account could a native be induced to kill one, as they
are said to be the souls of their departed friends. In the
hut of the king is the skin of a large white seal, which
I ascertained was piously treasured on account of having
formerly been occupied by the soul of a maiden. The fol¬
lowing is the legend related to me:—Many years ago, a
beautiful young girl lived upon the island, and was the be¬
trothed of a “ dacent boy” by the name of Rooney. One day
Rooney and his bride-elect were out fishing in a coracle,
when a storm arose, and the frail craft was capsized.
The terrified lover endeavoured to save his sweetheart
in vain. Before sinking for the last time she bade him
farewell, and said she should become a white seal, and
would sing to him. The broken-hearted Rooney swam
ashore, but his reason had fled. For a long time he
daily made a pilgrimage round the island in the hope
of meeting his departed in the shape of a white seal;
but his journeys were always fruitless. At length, one
stormy winter night, when the wind howled across the
island with terrific fury, Rooney started from his couch
of rushes, and exclaimed, “ Hark, I hear her singing—
she calls me now,” and before anyone could stop him, he
had bounded off and was lost in the darkness. His
friends were about to follow, when they were deterred
by a plaintive voice, which in a low musical tone bade
220
THE SPIRIT HALT ST. June 1. 1873.
them stay. All night long they heard the voice chant¬
ing a melancholy lay, hut when daylight broke it
ceased. Then a search was made, and down on the
sea-shore they found the dead body of Rooney, with a
dead, white seal clasped to his breast. The souls of
Rooney and his beloved had gone to the enchanted
island.
In answer to inquiries I made with respect to the
burial of their dead, I was informed that for three days
the corpse is allowed to lie with his face exposed, and
a light burning at its head. And during this time the
wooden god is repeatedly supplicated to give the de¬
ceased a safe passage fo the Paradisiacal island. At
the end of the third day, the friends and relatives
assemble at the hut, a procession is formed, and amid
much weeping and wailing the remains are carried to
the graveyard and there buried, stones from the sea¬
shore being piled in heaps to mark the spot.
Some two or three years ago, I believe a missionary
went over to Inishkea to attempt'the conversion of the
heathens; but like many of his class who have gone
on similar errands to other parts of the world, he com¬
menced his work by scoffing at and reviling the God
they worshipped, forgetting that for generations the
faith of these poor people had been placed in that
senseless image, and that faith, when once placed, is
too strong to be scoffed away. By adopting this course
he very naturally failed in his object, and so incensed
the natives that he narrowly escaped with his life.
Since then nobody seems to have thought it worth
while to attempt the conversion of these untutored
islanders. J. E. M.
The funeral of the late Mr. ."William WRite, editor and
proprietor of The Banner of Light, took place three weeks
since at Mount Auburn, Boston, U.S.
Liberal Orthodoxy.— The Broad Churchman has re¬
cently published some excellent letters in favour of Spiritual¬
ism, written by Mr. T. Herbert Noyes and Mr. James Thornton
Hoskins. The latter gentleman says, in one of his letters :—
“ It seems hardly necessary to say that there is abundant
Scripture authority for these solemn investigations.
‘ There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual
body,’ says St. Paul, who, in another famous passage,
(1 Cor. xii.), alludes to the variety of spiritual gifts, of heal¬
ing, prophecy, i. e., ‘speaking unto exhortation, edification,
comfort,’ with which some talented persons are endowed.
‘Beloved, believe not every spirit,’ says St. John (1 iv. 1),
‘ but try the spirits whether they are of God.’ Here the
eminent Evangelist evidently takes for granted that those
who f search ’ his writings are aware of the possibility of
intermundane communication. The existence of bad,
hitherto undeveloped spirits, like the witch of Endor, who
live in a hell of temporary remorse, logically implies the’
existence of good ones. The readers of this paper may
require no additional evidences of immortality, the ordinary
proofs being quite sufficient to convince them of the validity
of the Christian doctrine. Yet, even to them, fresh illustra¬
tions may be, in many respects, most useful. But let us
carefully reflect upon the number of atheists who have already
been converted by spiritualistic facts and reasonings, some to
Christianity, others to an unalterable belief in the reality of
a future life. I have met many, and have not the slightest
doubt but that infidelity, that most unscientific and irrational
product of ignorance, is destined ere long to be crushed by
the rapid onward march of those glorious everlasting truths
which, issuing primarily from the Supreme Being, who sits
enthroned in the illimitable Univerccelum, are about to
illumine the earth with countless rays of celestial light. In
short, Spiritualism is to Protestantism what this latter was to
the Roman Catholic' Creed. Each in its turn serves the
divine purpose ; but just as the 16th century movement was
more advanced than the system which it partially supplanted,
so it is the proud mission of Spiritualism to regenerate the
churches and humanise the angry theological disputants of
the I9th century.”
poetry.
A CHILD’S PRAYER.
(From A Tale of Eternity and other Poems, by Gerald Massey. London:
Strahan and Co.)
Then, silent Leonard lifted up his look,
Bright as a daisy when the dews have dried;
A sudden thought struck all the sun in his face.
“Martha and Dora, I know what I’ll do!
I’ll write a letter to our Saviour; He
Will help us if we put our trust in Him.”
The sisters smiled upon him through their tears.
This was the letter little Leonard wrote.
“ Dear, beautiful Lord Jesus,
Christmas is drawing near;
Its many shining sights we see,
Its merry sounds we hear,
With presents for good children,
I know thou art going now,
From house to house with Christmas trees,
And lights on every bough.
“ I pray thee, holy Jesus,
To bring one tree to us,
All aglow with fruits of gold,
And leaves all luminous.
We have no mother, and, where we live,
No Christmas gifts are given;
We have no friends on earth, but thou
Ai’t our good friend in heaven.
“ My sisters, gentle Jesus,
They hide the worst from me;
But I have ears that sometimes hear,
And eyes that often see.
Poor Martha’s cloak is worn threadbare,
Poor Dora’s boots are old;
And neither of them strong like me,
To stand the wintry cold.
“ But most of all, Lord Jesus,
Grandfather is so ill;
’Tis very sad to hear him moan,
And startling when he’s still.
Ah! wgll I know, Lord Jesus,
If thou would’st only come,
He’d look, and rise, and leave his bed,
As Lazarus left his tomb.
“ Forget us not, Lord Jesus,
I and my sisters dear;
We love thee! when thou wert a child,
Had we been only near,
And seen thee lying, bonny babe,
In manger or in stall,
Thou should’st have had a home with us
We would have given thee all.”
(ftomspontience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinion
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE TWO BRAINS.
Sib,—In relation to a case of obsession yon refer to Mrs.
Hardinge’s remark, “ that physical mediums were persons
with large hack brains,” and say that if “ observation should
prove her statement to he accurate, it may account for the cir¬
cumstance that the application of cold water to the hack of
the head is efficacious in cases of obsession. Mrs. He Morgan,
in From Matter to Spirit, gives evidence that the lower spirits
act upon the base of the brain of the medium.” It is a
quarter of a century ago since I discovered phreno-mesmerism,
and chiefly through its paeans the functions of the lower brain.
At a meeting in Harley-street, Mrs. Hardinge was asked, the
question as to the distinctive functions of the two brains, and
replied that the cerebrum or large brain related to the mind,
and the lower brain, the cerebellum, to the physical man.
The late Dr. Hunt, founder of the Anthropological Society,
was by my side, and he immediately turned to me and said,
“ She has been reading your hook ”—meaning my letters to
Miss Martineau, wherein is a sketch of my discoveries, p. 59.
I commence my account in these words—“ I begin, as you
suggest, with the lower and lesser brain—the cerebellum.
Here I find a number of organs associated in groups, and hav¬
ing a special relation to the bodily condition ; the function of
the cerebrum, the superior brain, relating to the external
world, and also to those faculties of the cerebellum. The
larger brain, I may say, for distinction’s sake, is more espe¬
cially the brain of the body, and the cerebrum of the mind.
In this seems to rest the fundamental distinction between the
two brains.” I then proceed to particulars, to the grouping of
the organs, and to their inter and outer relations, as regards
the muscular power and other bodily functions and secretions.
But as yet physiologists have ignored my discoveries, because
June 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
221
they have set their minds against mesmerism, clairvoyance,
and kindred matters, as the illusions of unreliable or incom¬
petent enquirers. But that time of foolish prejudices is
rapidly passing away, and the new light will begin to be re¬
cognised, and men will wonder at their former blindness; the
stones rejected will be recognised as the crowning of the edifice
in the true science of man and mind. Then, indeed, man
will stand with all confidence in the power by knowledge over
his own nature, and the sceptical arguments of the meta¬
physician will no more trouble mankind. I have not yet been
able to accept any of the theories in regard to the agency of
supernatural beings or of spirits, in respect to any phenomena
or formative processes we are able to observe/ Nevertheless,
the discoveries I have referred to are quite in accord with a
spiritual interpretation. As, for instance, by operating on a
certain portion of the cerebellum of a mesmerised subject, I
can call forth an incredible amount of physical force, without
the consciousness of the somnambulist though apparently fully
awake, surely a spirit might effect the same by a medium, and
be able, perhaps, to send forth or draw forth the power without
the intervention of the muscles, and directed by its own in¬
telligence ; which would seem to be a very “ simple ” and
sufficient solution of the problem we have to solve. But, as I
tell my excellent friend, Mr. Wallace, I fear the solution is a
little too simple. Nature'does not reveal her deeper secrets
quite so readily. See how little Professor Rutherford was
able to tell us in regard to this very question of the muscular
power—little more had he to say than in all essential points
to proclaim our ignorance; and the two brains seem still to
be regarded as absolutely unknown, if not unknowable pro¬
vinces in nature. Why ? Simply because the only efficient
and appropriate methods and means of investigation have
been ignored and neglected. Henry G. Atkinson.
Hotel Royal, Boulogne-sur-Mer.
SPIRITC'ALISfM AND CHRISTIANITY.
Sir,—I have read with satisfaction the letter of your corre¬
spondent, dated the 19th ult., in your impression of the 1st
inst. The whole letter appears to me deserving of attention,
but for my present purpose, I shall only make from it the
following extract:—■
“ The literature of modern Spiritualism can hardly be said
to be of a very high intellectual order, and treats more of the
ordinary incidents of spirit life, shorn of these problems, in
which knowledge is evidently desired respecting the origin
and destiny of man^ the creation and sustentation of that part
of the universe we call material, the action and counteraction
called good and evil; and above all, little or nothing is said
or revealed upon the great first cause of all being, and the re¬
lationship existing between the Creator and created.”
Again: —
“I would further ask, Does Spiritualism affirm the truth as
recorded in the Christian Scriptures, especially in reference to
the author of Christianity—viz., Christ Himself?”
Referring to the first quotation, it is to be considered, where
so much avowed materialism prevails, and if not avowed,
practically exists, the first thing to be established, is the ex¬
istence of man after what is called death, as a spirit in the
spiritual world. This existence at the various seances and in
other ways has been abundantly proved; although there have
been the bright and shady sides which characterise everything
on earth, this is the first step on the ladder; the others must
be reached in due succession. No doubt there exist Spiri¬
tualistic writings elucidating the high subjects referred to by
your correspondent, and not generally known. It appears to
me if productions of this kind could be collected and pub¬
lished in the periodicals, they would materially assist your
correspondent’s views. I therefore forward extracts from the
writings of a lady writing-medium who has passed away, and
also from those of mine, whose origin is of the same kind, as
specimens of such communications as your correspondent
appears to think of cardinal importance to the world.
The following communication is through the lady, and
describes a Mr. L. who had not long entered the spirit world:—
“Good, Friday, April Ikth, 1865.— Now you have lived
to see another anniversary of our Lord’s death, and this
should add a volume of feelings and reflections upon the
subject of this communication, for you have in this day
the most vivid and extraordinary picture of the sacrifice
the Lord of all has made from the boundless love TTi«
Divine nature bears to His creatures in their night of
spiritual destitution; you will find that the more you regard
your duties to your brethren as sacred, and as holding a
supreme place in your affections, the more you understand
and appreciate the benefits of the Lord’s sacrifice for you and
the multitude of His creatures and your brethren; and in
appreciating it, appropriate the benefit to yourself. Sacrifice is
not punishment or suffering in the Eternal; sacrifice is the
whole work that the Lord performed for man ; He found him
debased ; He raised him from the dust of earth; He made
him a living soul—not at once, not in the twinkling of an eye,
but by that progress through which a man becomes a living from
a dead man. The lengthened night of spiritual darkness is
now drawing to its close, and even now the man of religion
and life may see through the atmospheres that surround him
the glimmering of the light of the sun of righteousness in the
eastern sky. Will you then lay this reflection to your soul,
and so elevate it that it may regard every sacrifice as a grate¬
ful odour, and the evidence of a living principle in the mind?
You may lift the veil at your pleasure, and see the glories of
the light of truth ; but you should as well open your heart to
receive that heat of love which is the baptism of that Holy
Spirit which is the baptism of that fire whose flame burns
with increasing warmth and splendour in the soul that is
fitted to receive it.”—Louisa (a sister of the medium, who de¬
parted this life at four years of age, in 1813).
The other message is extracted from the communications
through me, as follows :—
“ Oct. Lsi, 1856:—He asked about the Lord; he was told
he should see Him if he wished, but he could not see Him in
His glory.
“ Oct. 2nd :—More states are being constantly opened in his
mind; he is very grateful to the Divine Being, but he places
Him a long way off, and cannot admit the intimate union of
love penetrating to the depths of human hearts. Mortals are
viewed in his opinion by the Divine, as mortals view animals.
To give them food and certain enjoyments is showing great
mercy, but to lead the thoughts, to bend the inclination, is
beneath the trouble of an almighty, omnipotent power.
Morning rays dawn upon his mind, however, and he begins to
doubt former opinions. When he is perplexed some angel
comes and talks to him ; the subject is, as it were, accident¬
ally opened, and he is cleared of some pressing doubts.
“ Oct. 9th:—Many flowers are on the lake into which Mr.
 is looking; he has gazed his soul out of his eyes, and
feels his nothingness. At once there stands near him One
who, fixing on him a look which almost makes him sink, and
yet fills his heart with love, says—‘ Now reach hither thy
hand, and thrust it into My side. Now believe that I, thy
Maker, Father, Friend of Man, think no love too great to
manifest for the children that are mine; no suffering too
hard ta bring mine inheritance back to Me. No man could
love till I taught him, no heart feel the pangs of childbirth
like Him to whom all things belong, and all hearts are open.
All this your heart believes, but you think Me too great and
glorious to be manifested to fallen man. Tell Me who is the
greatest—the One who sits alone in his greatness, or the One
who can conquer fallen man by saving him ?—the One who is
too mighty to suffer, or the one whose lowliness is his might,
his love his glory, his brightness his humility?’ ”
Porto Bello Lodge, Knight Hill-road, G. B. Prichard.
Lower Norwood, May 4th.
THE REV. J. MURRAY SPEAR.
Sir,—The following is a list of the subscriptions at present
received to the fund for the benefit of Mr. Spear :—Thomas
Grant, Esq., £5 ; William Tebb, Esq., £5 ; Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, £5; A. L. Elder, Esq., £5 ; Dr. Newton, £2 ; G.
Nelson Strawbridge, £1 Is. ; Mrs. Strawbridge, £1 Is. ; A
Friend, £1. Mary E. Tebb.
20, Rochester-road, Camden-town, N.W.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J. G., Maidstone.—Will quote portions of your pamphlet soon.
A. A., St. Petersburgh.—Will write to you by post in a few days.
P.M.—We have been unable to find room for your letter headed—
“ Spirituality and Practicality,” but have tried to do so. It is
too long; and, considered in relation to its length, we do not
think it to be quite equal to the excellent quality of the average
of your utterances.
T. H., Shepton-Mallet.—Thi-ough many mediums evidence of the
personal identity of departed spirits is rarely or never obtained ;
through others, such evidence comes occasionally and unex¬
pectedly; through test-mediums, such evidence comes at nearly
every seance. At present we do not know of any gopd test-
mediUm in England, though there arc several in America.
222
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 1, 1873.
Many queer specimens of newspaper literature reach us
from America. Among others the chief organ of the Oneida
“ Free Lovers ” has come to hand; its contents display much
ability on'the part of the authors. The last mail brought a
journal directed to “ Esquire Allen ” (meaning.'our respected
publisher), entitled The Universe (Massachusetts), containing
many articles on Spiritualism, to some of which we hope to
call attention in the next issue of The Spiritualist.
Mr. Prentice Muleord, of California, is now lecturing
on Spiritualism in the North of England. His published
utterances are very thoughtful, and display a keen apprecia¬
tion of the beauty and spirit of the works of nature, as well as
a distaste for the artificialities and conventionalities of life.
Such intellects experience the deepest and the truest happi¬
ness, and are most independent of the material powers of
earth. We know nothing with respect to his abilities as a
platform speaker.
Passed to Spirit Life.—On Wednesday, May 21st;
Mrs. Caroline Edmiston, of Beckenham, Kent, in the forty-
eighth year of her age. Mrs.^Edmiston was not only one of
the warmest friends to the cause of Spiritualism, but was
beloved by all who knew her for her unvarying kindness and
goodness. The funeral took place last Saturday week, when
her earthly body was laid in the ground in Brompton Ceme¬
tery, in the presence of Mr. Edmiston, most of the younger
members of his family, and a few sympathising friends. Mrs.
Edmiston had been making arrangements in case of her death
for a long time, and although very happily circumstanced
here, she frequently expressed her desire to leave the earth
for the brighter world beyond the grave.
The Dialectical Report.—While Mr. Burns, spiritual
bookseller, of 15, Southampton-row, is doing the good work
of publishing a cheap edition of the Dialectical Report, “ the
leaflets” for distribution published by Mr. Allen, of 11, Ave
Maria-line, and advertised on another page, contain in a few
paragraphs the nature and results of the Dialectical investiga¬
tion, also instructions how to form spirit circles at home.
More than ten thousand of these leaflets have been already
distributed, and if every Spiritualist gave away the contents
of one of the little packets, some millions of leaflets would be
disseminated, within a fortnight, all over the kingdom. More
efficient aid to Spiritualism at so cheap a rate could not pos¬
sibly be given in any other way, and the advent of a large
number of new mediums would be the result.
Unhealthy Food for Children.—The following, ac¬
cording to a writer in the Nonconformist, are extracts from a
Church of England catechism:—“Which sacraments are
necessary for all men ?” “ Baptism and the Holy Eucharist.”
“ What is baptism?” “ Washing away of sin.” “ Whose
children are we made in baptism ?” “ The'children of God.”
“ What is the Eucharist?” “It is the body and blood of
Christ.” “ What did the Saviour give the apostles power to
do ?” “ To make bread and wine His body and blood.”
“ Did he give this power to any one else?” “ Yes; to the
bishops and priests who came after them.” “ What do we
receive when the bishop confirms us?” “ We receive the
Holy Ghost.” “ Is it wrong to join in the worship of Dis¬
senters ?” “ Yes; we should only attend places of worship
which belong to the Church of England.” “How are we to
know the meaning of the Bible?” “ We learn it from the
Church.” “ Why are we bound to believe what the Church
teaches ?” “ Because she is the Pillar of the Truth.”
A Prophetic Dream.—The Liverpool Daily Post of
May 8tb, in announcing the Chester Races, states that a well-
known and very respectable sporting man had dreamt that
the horses for the Chester Cup would be placed in the follow¬
ing order, eight, three, and five, which he at once told to his
friends, and among others, to the editor. He not only backed
the horses himself to come in in that order,but heinduced many
others to lay out their money at the long odds of twenty to one
against number eight—Field Marshal, the winner of the
Chester Cup for 1873, whilst the order in which the second
and third came to the winning post was. as he had prophesied,
three and five, which were the, two favourites. It has been
stated that a similar occurrence took place ■when Daniel
O’Rourke won the Derby some years ago, which was pro¬
phesied by a spirit-message, given through Mrs. Marshall, the
betting being forty to one against the winner. These are
merely cited as facts, without however desiring to encourage
gambling in any shape, and especially through spirit
messages.
A correspondent of Public Opinion says:—“ Spiritualism
is such a recognised fact in Paris, that there are large com¬
mercial houses where no employes but Spiritualists are re¬
ceived, the conviction of the proprietors of those houses being
that believers in Spiritualism are not likely to be dishonest
men.”
In a Trance.—The wife of a rockman residing at Vren
Cysyllte, a village about three miles from Llangollen, had
been in delicate health for some months, and a few days prior
to the 3rd of January her life was despaired of. A person
living in the neighbourhood acted as nurse, and the sick
person was a patient of Mr. Williams’s, of Derwen Deg, Trevor.
Early on Friday morning she seemed to be rapidly sinking,
and between three and four o’clock she apparently died. At
this time the nurse and the husband were present, and had no
doubt whatever that life was extinct. In the ordinary course
the nurse proceeded to lay the body out, and. about seven
o’clock the husband went by train to a village in Shropshire
to^acquaint some friends of her death, and to make arrange¬
ments for the funeral. On his return, however, he found to
bis great astonishment, that his wife had disengaged herself
from the wrappings which are usually put upon the dead.
Although she was still insensible, there was no doubt that she
had moved. He at once resorted to friction and stimulants ;
unmistakeable signs of life appeared, and we are happy to say,
the woman, who is aged about 50, is in a fair way of recovery.—
Oswestry Advertiser.
A Spirit Child.—Mrs. M. H. Burnham, the New York
correspondent of the Missouri Republican, gives an account of
a Southern lady who has a spirit baby. Four months ago she
lost a child of five months. She is a delicate, fragile creature,
and the loss of her baby nearly killed her. Four days after
the little creature’s death, and just at dusk, she became aware
of something pulling at her dress, and there was her little baby
back upon her bosom. From that time to this the baby
comes back to be nursed as the evening shadows fall. She
cannot see it, but she feels its little hands paddling about as
a baby’s will, and those around her can see her dress dis¬
arranged, her collar pulled, and the indentations on her
bosom made by the invisible fingers of the spirit baby. Her
physician is staggered. There is no alteration in her physical
condition ; everything goes on as if she was nourishing a
child. The lady is not a Spiritualist, is excessively refined
and aristocratic, and shrinks from making the phenomena
public, but every night she crkdles in her arms her intangible
baby. She feels its unseen mouth against her, and she bends
with bitter tears above the invisible little visitant.
Education in Great Britain.—The last Census returns,
analysed by Mr. Lewis, give, as a rough test of the state of
education, the proportion per cent, of men and women mar¬
ried in 1870 who signed the marriage register with marks.
Some of the educational results thus brought out are very
curious. For England and Wales generally, the proportion of
men signing with marks is 19 8 per cent., and of women
27 3 per cent. For England alone these figures are a little
altered, being respectively ID’S and 26’3 ; but*for Wales they
are no less than 29‘6 and 44‘6. The average male ignorance
of Wales is surpassed by the counties of Monmouth (36-7),
Stafford (36 0), Bedford (32 5), Suffolk (3D0), is precisely
equalled by Hertford, and almost precisely equalled by Nor¬
folk (29 5). The average female ignorance of Wales is not
equalled in any English county, but is approached in Mon¬
mouth (44 4), Stafiord (44,1), and Lancaster (39'4). Taking
both sexes, there is less education in Monmouth than in any
other English county. Surrey stands at the head of the list,
with only 9’2 per cent, of unlettered bridegrooms, and 12 3
per cent, of unlettered brides. Middlesex follows, with 9’4
and l4-8 per cent. ; and then comes Westmoreland, with 11 2
and 14’7. In 16 English counties—Berkshire, Bucks, Cam¬
bridge, Dorset, Essex, Hants, Hereford, Herts, Huntingdon,
Norfolk, Oxford, Rutland, Somerset, Suffolk, Sussex, and
Wilts—the women are better educated than the men, and in
Lincoln they are equal in education within a small fraction ;
but in the remaining 23, and in all the Welsh counties but
Flint apd Radnor, the scale turns in the other direction.
Some of the facts stated could not be understood only by the
light of local knowledge. In Kent and- Cumberland, for
example, the unlettered males stand on an equality at 15 per
cent. But in Kent the unlettered women are also only 15’6
per cent., while in Cumberland the proportion mounts up to
26-l. On the whole, this short table contains materials which
the members of School Boards will do well to lay to heart,—
Times.
June 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
223
The Rev. J. Page IIopps, of Glasgow, will preach at the
Unitarian Chapel, Effia-road, Brixton,. on Sunday morning,
June 8th, at eleven o’clock. There will doubtless be a good
attendance Of Spiritualists on the occasion.
Mb. Stanhope T. Speeb, M.D., of Douglas-house, Alex-
andra-road, N.W., recently offered Messrs. Maskelyne and
Cook £20 to give an imitation seance in his drawing-room.
This offer they did not accept. Another gentleman wrote
them for the same purpose, and among the difficulties they
mentioned in the way of giving a private entertainment Was
the circumstance that the necessary apparatus would weigh
a ton.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1883.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. "Workmanship and Pit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT P0R .CASH.
IDPPS’S OOCOA. — The Civil Service Gazette
H remarks—“By a thorough knowledge of the natural laws which
govern the operations of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful application
of the line properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr. Epps has pro.vided our
breakfast-tables with a delicately-flavoured beverage which may save us
many heavy doctors’ bills.”
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
N Each packet.is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverage.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
jn|1EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —'I o provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W,
G. H. ANDREW S,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, FOUNDLING, W.C.
EGS to inform Gentlemen, who may honour him with
their patronage, they can be supplied with clothes cut in the most
fashionable manner, good materials, and sound workmanship, at -very
moderate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many years in the
well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co., 65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Trousers, from   0 13 6 1 Black Suit, from  3 0 0
Vests  0 7 0 | Unrivalled Black Doe .110
Tweed Suit  £2 10s. Od.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmerising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travelling
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N. W
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings,
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, RECEIVES VISITORS daily (Sundays excepted), from
Twelve till Six o’Clock, at her Residence, 17, Castle-street, Wells-street,
Oxford-street. Terms, Five Shillings each Visitor. Private Parties also
attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea and travelling expenses.
Mr. j. j. morse, trance-medium; is open to
receive engagements in London or the provinces, to attend Seances,
or address public meetings. Mr. Morse holds a Seance every Friday even¬
ing at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southampton-row, W.C., when he is in London,
where letters, &c., may be addressed, or to his private residence, Warwick
Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
ELECTRO-BIOLOGY, THE BASIS OF SPIRITUALISM.
PROFESSOR RAYES IS OPEN TO ENGAGEMENTS
for Experimental Lectures; also to teach Psychology for Seientiflc,
Rbcreative, or Healing purposes. Patients visited by appointment, and
help given to Investigators of Spiritualism in the formation of Private
Circles. A Practical instruction Book, entitled Electro-Biology Explained,
or. The Principles of Psychic Control in Health and Disease, may be had by
those unable to take Private Lessons. Address, 38, Blissett-street, Green¬
wich, S.E.
TO BIBLE COLLECTORS.—FOR SALE.—BLACK
LETTER BREECHES BIBLE (Geneva edition), 1610. Condition,
PERFECT. Size, 11£ ins. by 8 ins., by 85 ins. Annotated throughout, with
appendices of tthe Apocrypha, New Testament, and the Psalms collected
into English metre, and set to music. Tenders are invited. Address
Antiquarian,” 12, High-street, Bow, London, E.
A PARTMENTS.—BED-ROOM and use of PARLOURS,
with piano. Extra small room, if required. Suitable for lady or
gentleman interested in Spiritualism. Terms very moderate; society chief
object. Inquire at 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
BEVERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume Demy 8vo„
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
TTDMANUEL SWEDENBORG: HIS LIFE AND
JGi WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the. History, the
D< ctrines, and the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are concisely
and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings,
by Mr. C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden-
birg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially meet fhe
EXPENSES of the FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION of “The
Spiritualist ”:r—
£ s. d.
Charles Blackburn, Esq   ...       ... 15 0 0
“ A Friend at a Distance ”     10 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq  5 5 0
“ A Friend.’’... •. -  5 5 0
M. Alexandre AksaJkof (St. Petersburg)   5 5 0
W. Tebb, Esq _  ... 5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq. ...     5 0 0
C. F. Varley, Esq., FR.S  5 0 0
Mrs. E. M, Cox ...  „     5 0 0
“ Truthseeker ” (Liverpool)   ... ... ... ... 5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  6 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq. ... ...       ...    5 0 0
J. C. Luxmoore, Esq.    1  5 0 0
Justice  5 0 0
F. S. A    5 0 0
J. M. Gully. Esq., M.D.     5 0 0
Friends at Brixton:— £ s. d.
Miss Ponder  ... 1 0 0
Miss E. Ponder ... ... ...    1 0 0
Mrs. Rudd       ... ... 10 0
“Longfellow”      ... ..." 1' 0 0
Mr. Withall  1 0 0
Mr. E. Bird     10 0
Mr. George Dawson    ..." 10 0
Mr. Dawson Rogers   10 0
Mr. Rogers     ... 10 0
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald ...   10 0
Mrs. Gunyon - ;. ... 10 0
 8 0 0
“Bitterness”   ...    ... ... ... |  4 4 0
“A Friend” (Temple)  3 3 0
N. F. Daw, Esq. ...     3 3 0
Richard Beamish, Esq., F.R.S. ’ ... ...   ... 3 3 0
James Wason, Esq    3 3 0
Algernon Joy, Esq   -2 10 0
The Countess of Caithness   2 .2 _0
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston   2 2 0
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq       2 2 0
John Beattie, Esq.    2 0 0
“A Friend ” (Bloomsbury)    ... ... 2 2 0
Mrs. Hennings   2 0 0
“A Friend’’(Manchester)  1 1 0
Benjamin Coleman, Esq  1 1 3
E. Musgrave, Esq    110
“V.”... ... ...   110
A Clergyman of the Church of England     1 1 0
B. W. Pycock, Esq  1 1 3
Arthur Maltby, Esq     1 1 3
G. Thomson, Esq., M.D    1 0 0
Mrs, Robert Campbell      1 0 3
Oscar von Hoffmann (Leipzig)      10 3
“A Friend,” F.R.S       1 0 0
Miss Kislingbury ...    >  1 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory ‘  1 0.0
Miss J. H. Douglas    ... •.  ... .y.   10 0
“AFriend”        10 0
John E. Purdon, Esq,, M.B    1 0 0
J. Craig, Esq  ... ... ... 0 10 6
G. D. (Hackney), Balance in excess of publishing account   0 S 0
Subscriptions in aid of this object maybe remitted to N. Fabyan Daw,
Esq., treasurer, Portman-chambers, Portmau-square, W.; Benjamin
Coleman, Esq.,Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood; or to Enmore Jones, Esq-,
Enmore-park, South Norwood, S.E.
228
THE SPIRITUALIST.
June 1, 1873.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family friends and relatives,
often gives the most satisfactory evidence of the reality of spiritual
phenomena, and this is the best way for enquirers to begin. At
the same time, as no fully developed medium is present among
those who have never obtained manifestations before, possibly there
may be no results. Nevertheless, it is a very common thing for
striking manifestations to be obtained in this way at the first sit¬
ting of a family circle; perhaps for every successful new circle
thus started without a medium, there are three or four failures, but
no accurate statistics on this point have yet been collected.
Consequently, to save time, investigators should do as the Dia¬
lectical Society did, form several new circles, with no Spiritualist
or professional medium present, and at one or other of them re¬
sults will probably be obtained. When once manifestations have
been obtained they will gradually increase in power and reliability
at successive sittings. The following is a good plan of action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays tlje manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is hot yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first syipptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood.'’ If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? " Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive, to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lowe» mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
articles of furniture, the flow and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds al'e often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
•‘3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported: —
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
In another part of the report the same committee stated:—
“After a committee of eleven persons had been silting round a dining
table for forty minutes, and various motions and sounds had occurred, the
chairs were turned with their backs to the table, at about nine inches from
it. All present then knelt upon their cha’rs, placing their arms upon the
backs of the chairs. In this position, the feet were of course turned away
from the table, and by no possibility could be placed under it or touch the
floor. The hands were extended over the table at about four inches from
the surface.
“ In tljis position, contact with any part of the table was physically im¬
possible.
.“ In less than a minute the table, untouched, moved four times ; at first
about yfre inches to one side, then about twelve inches to the opposite side,
then about four inches, and then about six inches.
“ The hands were next placed on the backs of the chairs and about a foot
from the table. In this position, the table again moved four times, over
spaces varying from four to six inches. Then all the chairs were removed
twelve inches from the table. All knelt as before. Each person fold,ed his
hat-.ds behind his back, his body being about eighteen inches from the
table, and having the back of the chair between himself and the table. In
this position the table again moved four times, in like manner as before
In the course of this conclusive experiment, and in less than half an hour,
the table moved, without contact or possibility of contact with any person
present, ticelve times, the movements being in different directions, And
some according to the request of different persons present.
“The table was then carefully examined, turned upside down, and taken
to pieces, but nothing was discovered. The experiment was conducted
throughout in the full light of gas above the table.
“Altogether your committee have witnessed upwards of fifty similar
motions without contact on eight different evenings, in the houses of
different members of your committee, and with the application of the most
careful tests their collective intelligence could devise.”
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
J C. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER, AND PDBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Coun'ry Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
O Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive sub?cribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at tihort notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on- Tyne.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it, has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. G. Atkinson. Esq.. F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.: H. R. Fox Boume, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.Q S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.: Albeit Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq ; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Yolckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webbei’, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evhle.nce, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans, Among other things this Committee reported: —
“ 1, That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
EBIRD, Builder, House-decorator, Plumber, and
• Gasfltter, desires to inform his Friends and Employers that he
has taken NEW PREMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station. Estimates given for every descrip'ion of
work in the above branches.
Aaron franklin, preseryer of birds
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE; Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, slags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 58 Suffolk-
street, Birmingham, *
Foolscap 8vo., cloth. Published at 3s., now offered at 2s.; post free, 2s. 3d.
HE MENTAL CURE: illustrating the Influence of
the Mind on the Body both in Health and Disease, and the Psycho¬
logical Method of Treatment, by Rev. W. F. Evans, author of “The
Celestial Dawn,” “The Happy Islands,” “The New Age and its Messen¬
ger,” &c., &c., &c.
Glasgow: James M‘Geachy, 89, Union-street.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser, at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr,,London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
