[Registered as a Newspafe v
0^ f>^TCiS0I<0^lCSl<
tcmntd^ krif^ ^phifitalbrn in (&xmt Britain.
THE m SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street, SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. ' 203.—-—(VOL. VIII.—No. 28.) LONDON : FRIDAY^ JULY J4j 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
OTontenta.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
The Elimination of further Doubtful Conditions from
Materialisation Manifestations ; ...  
Mr. Blackburn’s Free Seances. By 0. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.
Spiritualism in the Bible Identical vrith Modern Spirit¬
ualism. By F. J. Theobald:—Necromancy—Writing
and Drawing Mediumship—Direct Spirit Writing-
Materialisation—Levitation of the Human Body-
Power to Resist the Action of Fire—Spirit Lights—
Healing Mediumship—Trances, Visions, and Direct
Spirit Voices—The New Dispensation ;  
A Curious Spiritualistic Trial in Paris    
Spiritualism and Spirit Photography in Barcelona  
The National Association of Spiritualists and the Press ...
Spiritualism in Liverpool  ’     
Mrs. Weldon’s Concert... V  ... ...   • ... .,.
Dr. Slade’s Visit to England   ...  
Marriage of Mr. Dale Owen   ... ...
The Floating of a Harmonium and Two Mediums in the
Air. By Hensleigh Wedgwood  
A Remarkable Seance. By Benjamin Coleman  ...
Poetry:—The Spirit Voice ... .... ... ... ...  
Correspondence:—The Times and the Reality of Apparition s
—Pre-Existence—Out-door Meetings in Birmingham
—Art Magic—Spiritualism in Leigh—What are
Works?—The Great Law of Living Nature—Spirit
Identity—The Education of the Children of Spiritualists
—Two Questions—Spectres of Animals—Clairvoyant
Visions of Assassinations in Turkey: Are They Trust¬
worthy?    
Organisation among Spiritualists. By J. M. Peebles.
Harriet Martineau's Relationship to Spiritualism
Henry Ct. Atkinson, F.G.S •. .,
Mr. E. W. Wallis's Mediumship   ... .,
Organisation among Spiritualists in America
Answers to Correspondents  
Paragraphs:—A Ghost Riot, 328; Mrs. Weldon’s Orphan¬
age, 329; Sunday Services in Newcastle, 332; Testi¬
monial to Andrew Jackson Davis  
325
325
326
328
328
329
329
330
330
330
330
331
332
By
332
335
•6
336
336
336
336
MRS. WELDON’S INVITATION CONCERT.
ST. JAMES’S HALL.
WEDNESDAY, 19th JULY, 1876, AT EIGHT P.M.
Doors open at Half-past Seven.
ARTISTS—Mrs. WELDON AND HER PUPILS.
Orchestra (Leader, Mr. POLLITZER) composed of Members
of Oovent Garden and Drury Lane Opera Houses.
CHORDS—ALEXANDRA PALACE and GOUNOD CHOIRS.
CONDUCTORS—Mr. ALFRED CELLIER, MR. HAMILTON
CLARKE, and Mr. JOHN URICH.
First Part.
JEANNE D’ARC ...   Ch. Gounod.
1. Pastoral Introduction (Orchestra)
2. “ From our homes we are flying” (Chorus).
3. Duett of the Saints—“Jesu Maria” (Mrs. Weldon and
Walter Rawlings, 10 years old, and Chorus).
4. “Kind Fortune”—Ballade du Page.
5. “ Dieu le Veut ” (Chorus). .
6. “Away! away!” (Chorus and Solos).
7. “ Lord, in Thy mercy hear us—Prayer (Chorus). ■
8. Dialogued Chorus of Women.
9. Coronation March and Chorus—“ Noel."
10. Prison Scene—Chorus of Soldiers—Duett of the Saints.
11. Funeral March.
End of “ Jeanne D’Arc.”
“ On the Sea of Galilee” (Matthew viii. 23—27)... Ch. Gounod.
Symphony and Recitative, Mrs. Weldon.
All the Children will intone, after Mrs. Weldon, The Lord’s
Prayer.
Tommie and Jackie (aged between 3 and 4 years) will play the
Minuet from Gounod’s “ Jeanne D’Arc.”
Katie (2 years, 5 months and a half old) will recite “ I love
little Pussie.”
WALTER Rawlings (10 years old) will sing “Lullaby,” by his
brother Alfred (14 years old).
Mrs, Weldon, Charles, Alfred, WalterRawlings, andthe
Children will sing Gounod’s Part Song, “My true love hath
my heart.”
Ballad ... “The Flower Girl” (new song) ... Alfred Cellier.
Mrs. Weldon.
Then will follow, “ Dickory Dickory Dock,” “ Mistress Mary,”
“ Whittington and his Cat,” and “ The Man in the Moon.”
After which the Children will make a collection for the benefit
of Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage.
Second Part.
Grand Processional March, arranged expressly for the Gounod
Concerts (Ch. Gounod), from the opera of “Polyenete.”
By the Orchestra.
Part Song ... “To the Cuckoo” ... ... Alfred Rawlings.
Unaccompanied Choir.
Fragments from “ Nourmahal”  John Uricht
1. Overture for the Orchestra.
2. Invocation of the Fairies and their Queen (Solo, Chorus,
and Orchestra).
Serenade (Hamilton Clarke), composed expressly in aid of
Mrs. Weldon’s Orphanage.
“ Amarilla,” an African melody (JohnUrich), for Solo, Chorus,
and Orchestra.
Mrs. Weldon (Tavistock House, Tavistock-square) will be
happy to Bead InyUations to any one who wishes for them.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.C.
Agenda fob July, 1876.
President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Asso ciation for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council
Mrs. O. Ada Blyton, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland,
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. John Rouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:—1 A, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.46 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
privilege. Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary seance
held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special stances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on ihe first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the ‘‘ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances ot
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “British
National Association of Spiritualists” will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following., viz.:
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions “ how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscript|ion for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. AH subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
SPECIAL SEANCES FOR INVES-
GATORS. A series of seances are to be held on the
Tuesday afternoons of every week until further notice at the
residence of Mrs. Woodforde, 90, Great Russell-street. Usual
phenomena. Movement of objects in the light. Medium, Mr.
Arthur Coleman, who has kindly offered his services for this
especial purpose. Seances will begin at 3 p.m., punctually.
Fee, 5s.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated peiiods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles ot the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consis’ent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statemeifls, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
As. Cd, SpiritualiH newspaper branch office,
Friday, 7th.—Experimental Research Committee's Seance
with Miss Fowler, 8 p.m.
Monday, VHh.—Mr. Blackburn’s Free Seance. Miss LottU
Fowler, medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Tuesday, 11th.—Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Prize Essay Committee, at 6.15 p.m.
„ Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 14fA—Experimental Research Committee's Seance
with Miss Fowler, at 8 p.m.
Monday, 17th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6 p.m.
COMMITTEES OF THE B.N.A.S.*
Experimental Research Committee:
Mr. D. G. Fitzgerald, M.S Tel.E., Chairman.
Mr. C. F. Yarley, F.R.S., Mr. W. H. Coffin, Dr. O. Carter Blake,
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr. C. C. Massey,
Rev. W. Newbould, Mr. E. Dawsou Rogers, Mr. George King,
Mr. H. Withall, Mr. J. W. Gray, Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A.
Prize Essay Committee:
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers,
Dr. Keningale Cook.
Finance Committee:
Mr. Morell Theobald, Chairman.
Mr. Martin B. Smithj Mr. Alex. Oalder.
* The remaining Committees are in course of reconstruction
PRIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Mo^al,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
POBt, IS.l^d. 
East London spiritdal meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’ii
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.,
Serviceat 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8p.m.; Is. Friday, Seanceni
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALISTS’ SOCIETY,
LECTURES.—JULY, 1876.
Mr. J. J. Morse:—
“ Trance Address' ’
Mr. W. G. Simpson:—
“ The^ Existence of God
as Illustrated by Poets ”
Mr. Wkstgarth:—
“ Inspirational Address ”
MR. Thomas Pattison:—
“ Swedenborg's Heaven
and Hell"  
Mr. John Mould:—
“ Conflict between Science
and Religion ”
Admission Free.
Sunday, July 2, at 3 p.m.
„ „ 2, at 7 „
Monday, „ 3, at 7.30 „
Sunday, July 9, at 7 p.m.
Sunday, July 16, at 7 p.m.
Sunday, July 23, at 7 p.m.
Sunday, July 30, at 7 p.m.
Collection at the close.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“ Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) T^o are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir," Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, hut the greater number are by “Grannie"
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C.
Three Copies post free for 6d.
The writings of emanuel Sweden¬
borg. DO THEY ENCOURAGE ADULTERY AND
ITS KINDRED VICES? By Thomas Robinson. Also other
works by the same Author.
Address—H. Barlow and Son, stationers, &c., Oldham-road,
Newtonheath, near Manchester.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 hooks and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by iho
gift or loan of hooks, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the popu’ation is nearly 80,000, ahd very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G,
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 14, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
(Established 187&.);
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, Wesjt Brampton,, SAV.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-liill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Eitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall,21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orweil-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, AVarwick-square, S.W. . , , ,
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 48. Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, E. D , Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wasoii’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd.,New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205,Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F. A.,22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel. 4, Elsham-road. Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hiii.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-squaa'e, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd,North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thps., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwiek-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
rdad.SE,
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. It., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tfedwen, It. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vY.
Walhouse, M, J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Aune-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. II. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace,Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square;Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wlthall, II., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W. "
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr, J. H. Andre. ''Mr. H. Cook, i Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols aMaranosa, Madrid.
El Yisconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre AksaxOf, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg. .
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EIysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EIysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A,
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oud« Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 98,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 85, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A. . ’
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L, Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
•J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. j. M.'Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia.U.S.A.
■J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
;M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de PUnion, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
. J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Ilr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
.Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
;Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
Allied Societies.
'The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
'The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—II. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
'The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanoia, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot;
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.R.C.S.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Committee of Management. — Mr. Jones, Mr. J. Haslin, Mr.
William Meridith, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, and Miss
Dickson.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charleton, Mr. James Monk.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1875.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen; London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 8s.
LONDON :—SlMBKIN, MARSHALL <fc CO.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATCHARD AND CO.,
FVRNISHIN& Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, &c.
Chief Office: 47, Crawford Street, Bryanston
Square, W. ,
Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram,
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists .urelj/; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
'RS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE, HEALING,
AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing, Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship French spoken. At
home Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays.
Private Seances attended.
Notice.—Physical seances, with first-class mediums, held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week. Admission
on Saturdays by special invitation; on Thursdays by introduc¬
tion. No one admitted after eight o’clock. Fee, 5s. Mrs.
Woodforde is also open to engagements for private physical
seances at her own residence; previous notice required j fees
upon arrangement with medium.
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to help
• in the formation of Private Giroles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
MISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomania, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
"XTOTICE. — CHANGE OF RESIDENCE. —
_i_l Mrs. Olive has removed to 15, Ainger-terrace, Ainger-
road, King Henry’s-road, Primrose-hill, N.W. Three minutes
from Chalk-farm Station; five minutes from omnibus to
Oxford-street or West-end. Seances as usual for clairvoyance,
medical mesmerism, trance, tests, &c. Private seances by
arrangement; publio ditto) Tuesdays, 7 p.m., Fridays, 3 p.m.;
admission, 2s. 6d. Visits within ten miles two guineas, in¬
clusive.
PHYSICAL SEANCES, Light and Dark. Mrs. Olive has
arranged for a series of Seances with Mr. Bullock, jun., on
Mondays at 7 p.m. Admission, 5s. Materialisations and other
interesting phenomena are now constantly produced under test
conditions.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (30 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
MR. WILLIE eglinton, medium,
can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham-
'IVTISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
-T-V-I- American Somnambuli it, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Hours, 1 till 8 p.m. Terms, one guinea.
Physical seances for Spiritualists only on Thursday and Saturday
evenings at 8 o’clock, 5s. Miss Fowler does not reply to
correspondence, nor see visitors on Sunday. Address—3,
Vernon-plaee, Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
MRS. BURKE is about to hold PUBLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8 o’clock; to commence on Friday, tne 15th
inst. E. W. Wallis, medium for trance communications. Other
stances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, Loudon,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from. 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTHLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the Secretary, British National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
WANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoyant.
Would not object to trance.—T.Y.,*16, Stafford-street, Maryle-
hone-road, W.  
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate.
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A, B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
tl trf tmb tl ^jttJjtiurfbttt.
Volume JEJiqht. Kumber Twenty-eiqht.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 14th, 1876.
THE ELIMINATION OF FURTHER DOUBTFUL CONDI¬
TIONS FROM MATERIALISATION MANIFESTATIONS.
Now that by means of united action a platform has been
erected enabling Spiritualists to put certain good ideas for
the benefit of the movement into force, considerable im¬
provement has been effected in the conditions under which
good manifestations are obtained, and are presented to
the public. Professional mediums, as a rule, could not
afford to surround themselves with those conditions in the
shape of test cabinets, and so on, which would enable
them to present manifestations in an unquestionable manner
to the public; even had they overcome these difficulties,
they would have had no certainty that good witnesses would
attend to verify before the public any valuable results which
might be achieved. But now that the difficulty as regards
material means has been overcome by the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, and now that mediums who can obtain
good manifestations feel that such phenomena are not
wasted, but will be verified by witnesses whose testimony
is of weight in the outside world, a decided improvement in
the manifestations has been the result. Mediums attend
seances at Great Russell-street, knowing that any good
manifestations they may obtain will be properly verified, and
that if there is a failure, their powers will compare unfavour¬
ably with those of other mediums. The result has been the
production of a strong desire on thb part of both mediums
and spirits to obtain good manifestations. A demand is
springing up among Spiritualists for simple and strong
manifestations in the light, and these would probably com¬
mand more attention and be more valued than some of the
materialisation phenomena which have been pushed into
such an advanced phase. Yet something more might be
done to eliminate the doubtful conditions connected with
certain materialisation phenomena. In one class of these,
the spirits produce what, to all appearance, is the double of
the medium dressed in white, while the medium is bound and
sealed, and sometimes seen, inside the cabinet; they also
have the power of liberating the medium from bonds in the
twinkling of an eye, sending him forth in an entranced state,
and putting him back in those bonds exactly as at first, and
in many cases are not at all particular whether they produce
a genuine materialisation, or the reverse. An attempted
philosophical explanation of these facts will be found in The
Spiritualist of May 5th. These manifestations are annoy¬
ing, because in those cases where the medium is presented
the spectators have no evidence whether it is imposture or
the reverse, unless they wait patiently till the end of the
seance, and find the medium bound and sealed as at the
beginning. We would suggest that the plan be adopted
which was printed in last week’s Spiritualist of dividing the
cabinet into two parts by means of a screen of wire netting,
and that all the heads of the screws which fasten the said
netting to the woodwork shall be on the opposite side to
that on which the medium sits. As this plan has answered
in America, and successful manifestations were obtained in
the presence of critical witnesses, it will only be a question
of time before they are obtained here. If under these con¬
ditions the medium, or the double of the medium, or masks,
or large quantities of commonplace drapery appear in that
portion of the cabinet to which the medium has no access
by normal means, the spectators will have security that some
abnormal power is at work, and that the sensitive is merely
an instrument in the hands of unseen influences. What
those powers may be who occasionally play such ex¬
traordinary tricks, and where the materials come from
which they bring to cabinet seances, are questions for
solution in the future. Some suppose that the spirit of the
medium produces the manifestations by means of powers not
possessed by human beings in their normal state; and others
think that elementary spirits—spirits scarcely human—pro¬
duce some of those manifestations which are of a tricky
nature, accompanied by intelligence characterised by a
monopoly of platitude. Others, again, suppose that de¬
parted human beings of a not very high order are at the
root of the manifestations. There is, further, the theory
that they are produced by the spirits of sleeping persons.
In some exceptional cases, as in that of the case of the appear¬
ance of the departed wife of Mr. Livermore, the New York
banker, there seems to be no question that the spirits of
the dead are at work. From a great result like that just
mentioned, down to the lowest of materialisation manifesta¬
tions, there may be a long series of gradations, and the true
solution of one particular manifestation, will probably be
found not to be applicable to the whole range.
MR. BLACKBURN’S FREE SEANCES.
BY C. CARTER BLAKE, DOC. SCI.
The last of these took place on Monday last, the 10th
July, with Miss Lottie Fowler as medium. The friends
present were Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, Miss Catherine
Glendinning, Mrs. Hastie (Glasgow), Mr. A. Glendinning,
Mr. Christian Reimers, Mrs. Carter Blake, Miss Kisling-
bury, and myself for the Seance Committee. It was not
intended to sit for u materialisations ” at first, but, with the
consent of the medium, and at the wish of several in the
circle, the following circumstances took place.
Miss Fowler’s wrists were sewn round with broad tape, an
interval of about three inches being allowed between the
wrists. She was then placed in the chair, under laxer test
conditions than those allowed by and to her at previous
seances at the National Association rooms. After the lapse
of a few minutes a hand was exhibited at the left hand of
cabinet, and the table which was placed therein forcibly
thrown down. Several members of the circle were permitted
to place their hands in the cabinet above Miss Fowler’s tied
hands, and were grasped and touched by a hand which
closely resembled that of the medium. Two separate feet
were then shown at either corner of the cabinet, and the
control, et Pinkey,” expressed a willingness to produce full
forms. The room being darkened to an inconvenient extent
for the sitters, there was shown at the bottom of the curtains
a short figure clad in white, but which could not be further
recognised. A tali form, apparently larger than Miss
Fowler, was then shown, and Pinkey denied its identity with
the form “ Heinrich,” seen on former occasions, from which
it was apparently dissimilar by reason of the absence of
moustaches. This figure advanced slowly in front of the
curtains, and bowed towards the company. Another figure
was shortly afterwards shown of less dimensions, and ap¬
peared more freely. Miss Fowler was found to be in her
chair, at a distance from the spot where the manifestations
occurred. The sewing on the wrists was found to be per¬
fectly intact.
On the whole, these “ materialisations ” were less con¬
clusive than other phenomena of a more simple physical de¬
scription which I have previously seen through Miss Fowler’s
mediumship, and which were of a perfectly unmistakable
character. I have, however, thorough confidence in Miss
Fowler’s good faith.
“But, there ! we feel like a child ordered out of a strawberry
garden ; there is so much more to eat, but the stern editor’s space is
exhausted—Vale P" In an obituary notice of Walter Thornbury, the
Athenaeum reports that these were the last lilies written by him as an
art critic. The strawberry garden of the world was indeed over to
him, and, like a child ordered out of it abruptly, he was unconsciously
writing his own epitaph in that singularly graceful and touching
metaphor,
326
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 14, 1876.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTICAL WITH j
MODERN SPIRITUALISM. |j
BY F. J. THEOBALD. j/
“This is a relation that will beget some wonder, and it well may, for most of our world ;(
are at present possessed with an opinion that visions and miracles are ceased.”—Life of j(
Db. Donne.
NECROMANCY. j)
In Dent, xviii. 9, and following verses, we read:— If!
“ W/ien thou art come into the land ivhich the Lord thy God giveth thee, thou jij
shalt not learn to do after the abominations of those nations. . |)]
There shall not be found among you any^ one that maketh his son and daughter jr j
to pass through the fire, or that useth divination, or an observer of times, or an j(i
enchanter, or a witch. jjj
“ Or a charmer, or a consulter with familiar spirits, or a wizard, or a necro-
mancer. If!
“ For all that do these things are an abomination to the Lord.” I(j
In Acts xiii. 10, Paul utters fierce denunciations against sorcery, or i>\
necromancy, thus addressing “ Elymas the Sorcerer ” :—- |(!
“ Oh full of all subtlety, and all mischief, thou child of the devil, thou enemy i)l
of all righteousness, wilt thou not cease to pervert the right ways of the Lord, i) j
And now behold, the hand of the Lord is upon thee, and thou shalt be blind.” |(|
See again 1 Tim. iv. 1:— j)j
u Now the Spirit spealceth expressly, that in the latter times some shall depart m
from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils.” jli
Anti-Spiritualists quote these, and a few similar passages, as Biblical Kj
proofs of the diabolical origin of modern Spiritualism—that which is i;j
now spreading in rapid and strong power throughout the whole world, jfj
Many are the timid ones who are thus induced to turn in terror from jsj
a subject that might prove to them one of the richest of spiritual boons, j) j
They dwell upon these passages which truly and most distinctly warn jr j
all against the diabolical abuse of Spiritualism, and fail to open their Kj
eyes and understanding to the still larger amount of evidence in proof |)j
of the divine use of the same. j)j
To all such I would say—Accept nothing but what is distinctly taught Kj
in the Scriptures. Search fully for all these warnings, but do not shut jj!
your eyes to the context of these very passages, in most of which it may j)j
be found that the denunciation is against the abuse and not against Kj
the use of the great God-given power of intercommunion between the ijj
two worlds; the God-appointed commingling of nature and the super- jr!
nature. jji
The Bible, which is a collection of separate books, by different indi- j)j
viduals, written independently of each other, and confirming the history jr j
of a period of probably not less than 4,000 years, contains a continuous Is!
record of the Spiritualistic events of those days. The profane histories j;J
contemporaneous with those times give similar testimony to the truth Kj
of Spiritualism. But I will in this paper deal exclusively with the j(j
Sacred Records, and endeavour to make it clear that the marvellous j)j
wonders of the present day, which belong to so-called Modern Spirit- H\
ualism, are identical in character with the experiences of the patriarchs j\j
and apostles of old. jj!
I will hastily draw attention to a few of the instances of different j)j
kinds of mediumship recorded in the Old Testament, and then pass on jjj
to the New, containing as the Christian world professes to believe, the jj|
teachings of the “New Dispensation,” and under the order of which j)i
we are supposed to be now living. jj
If we turn again to Deut. xviii., and read from the 15th verse, we jjj
find—(as a context to the denunciation in 9th verse, &c., quoted )j
already)—a promise of a prophet, or medium, and the distinction is jsj
clearly made between the abuse and the use of these powers of medium- jj!
ship, given by God. j|j
(20th vi) 11 The prophet which shall presume to speak in My name which I jjj
have not commanded him to speak, or that shall speak in the name of other jjj
gods, even that prophet shall die.” ' it I
Read also Elijah’s interview with the prophets of Baal, in 1 Kings jjl
xviii. Especially note verses 18, 21, 26. Also read Jer. xxiii. fM
Let all who believe in the truth of the prophecies recorded in the Kj
Bible, recognise in the Signs of the Times the fulfilment of Joel’s words iji
(ii. 28): jj!
“And it shall come to pass I will pour out My Spirit upon all flesh, ijj
Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, j j j
your young men shall see visions.” j)j
Throughout the Bible it is taught that the withdrawal of these gifts jj
was looked upon as a “mournful sign,” a sign of God’s displeasure. j)j
In 1 Sam. iii. 1, is written, “ There was no open vision in these days,” jjj
and the development of “ clair-audient” mediumship in the child ijj
Samuel was hailed with delight by Eli, the Holy Priest of the ijj
Temple. In Ezekiel xiii. 23, it is said :—
“ Therefore ye shall see no more vanity, nor divine (as distinct from diabolical) i) j
divinations, for I will deliver my people out of your hand.” j J i
Note also third verse, and Ezekiel xii. 23, 24. ijj
In Micah iii. 6, we read :— ijj
“Therefore night shall be unto you, that ye shall not have a vision. And it ijj
shall be dark unto you, that ye shall not divine.” jfj
See Amos viii. 11:— jj!
“ Behold the days shall come, saith the Lord, that I will send a famine in the jjj
land. Not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words ijj
of the Lord.” - |jj
In Psalm Ixxiv. 9, is the lament, “ We see not our signs, there is ijj
no more any prophet f See 1 Sam. xxviii. 6, and in Proverbs xxix. 18, jjj
Solomon writes, “ Where there is no vision the people perish f jjj
WRITING AND DRAWING MEDICMSHIP. jjj
Of all the different varieties of mediumship or “gifts” now being jjj
poured so abundantly upon thousands, perhaps the most common are jjj
those of writing and drawing. Those who possess these powers, find
that on holding a pencil passively in their hands, upon paper, it is
moved to write messages upon all kinds of subjects, or to draw different
things. If we turn to 1 Chron. xxviii. 12, we find this mediumship, as
given to David, thus spoken of:—•
“ David gave to Solomon his son the pattern of the porch,” frc. ... “ and the
pattern of all that he had by the spirit.” Again in 19th verse : “ All this said
David, the Lord made me understand in writing by His hand upon me.”
Elijah, four years after he had passed away, writes to Jehoram, 2
Chron. xxi. 12: “ And there came a writing to him from Elijah the
prophet.”
It is not specified as to whether this came through a writing medium,
or by the
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING,
instances of which are continually being given now at spirit seances,
when both writings and drawings are done, under strict test conditions,
without mortal contact, and entirely similar to such cases as spoken of
by Moses, to whom the Commandments were on two separate occasions
“ Engraven on stone ’’ by direct spirit power. See Exodus xxxi. 18 :
“ And He gave unto Moses, .. . two tables of testimony, tables of stone,
written with the finger of God.” Also Exodus xxxiv. 1 and 28 verses.
And at Belshazzar’s feast the writing on the wall was also accompanied
by the “finger of a man's hand.” Dan. v. 5.
Perhaps the most marvellous development of spirit power at the
present time is that of so-called
MATERIALISATION.
By this power at seances held daily, not only in London, but in all
parts of the world, spirits show themselves in as tangible a form as that
of any of the people who are present. At times only a hand will appear,
or a face, but constantly the full form of a spirit (clothed in different
costumes, also materialised for the time) can come out from the cabinet,
talk freely, and eat visibly with those in the flesh, and then gradually
fade away before them.
There are, however, identical instances given in the Bible. See Gen.
xviii. how Abraham entertained three angels; in second verse:—
u And, lo, three men stood beside him: ” and having prepared food for them,
in the 8th verse it says, “ and he stood by them under the tree, and they did eat.”
Gen. xxxii. 24: “Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him
until the breaking of the day; ” and in the 30th verse is added: “ And Jacob
called the name of the place Peniel: for I have seen God face to face.”
The book of Ezekiel is inexplicable, except when it is read in the
light that Spiritualism throws upon it. It is a marvellous record of
medial experiences. In Ezekiel ii. 9, we find a materialised spirit hand
holds out “ a roll of a book” .. . written within and without” by direct
spirit power.
LEVITATION OF THE HUMAN BODY.
In chap. iii. 12-14, we find Ezekiel is “lifted up” by spirit power, in
the same way as many mediums are now elevated, or carried from
place to place.
In Ezekiel xi. 1, again is written: “ The spirit lifted me up, and
brought me into the east gate of the Lord's house.” See also chap,
viii. 3.
In the “ Dialectical Report on Spiritualism,’’ among many witnesses
may be found the names of Lord Adare, the Master of Lindsay, and
Mr. S. C. Hall, who testify to the truth of the fact that Mr. Home, by
medial power, has sometimes not only resisted the natural action of fire
himself, but has helped others to do so also. At page 119 we read: “ I
have seen Lord Adare hold in the palm of his hand a burning live coal,
which Mr. Home had placed there, so hot that the mere momentary
contact with my hand caused a burn.” Mr. S. C. Hall has had red hot
coal placed in the same way upon his head, without even singeing or
soiling the silvery hair. This
POWER TO RESIST THE ACTION OF FIRE
corroborates the truth of the statement given in Dan. iii. 21 and 27:—
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego “ were bound in their coats, their hats,
their hosen, and other garments, and were cast into the midst of the burning fiery
furnace.” ... “ And the princes, governors, captains, king's counsellors . ,. saw
these men, upon whose body the fire had no power, nor was an hair of their head
singed, neither were their coats changed, nor the smell of fire had passed upon
them.” Compare this with Heb. xi. 34.
SPIRIT LIGHTS.
The appearance of spirit lights, such as we have continually at spirit
stances now, is frequently spoken of in the Bible.
At Mr. Williams’s seances, John King, the spirit who shows himself
and converses with the circle, brings a lamp, by the light of which he
shows himself and lights up the room. Refer to Gen. xv. 17. Abram
asks for a sign, which is given him:—
“ And it came to pass, that when the sun went down (i.e., to ensure the neces¬
sary condition of darkness) and it was dark, behold a smoking furnace and a
burning lamp, passed between those pieces.”
In Exodus iii. 2, “ The Angel appeared unto Moses, “in a flame offire” . ,.
“ out of the midst of a bush,”... and the bush was not consumed.”
The Israelites are guided in the wilderness by “ a pillar of fire.”—Exodus
xiii. 21.
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
The gift of healing, expressly given by Christ to his followers, and
which is now possessed by many mediums (such as M. Jacob, of Paris,
and Dr. Mack), was possessed by some of the early prophets. See two
cases of healing by Elisha, 2 Kings iv. 32—35; 2 Kings v. 14. Also a
similar case is given in 1 Kings xiii. 6.
TRANCES, VISIONS, AND DIRECT SPIRIT VOICES.
The instances given of trances, visions, and direct spirit voices are
innumerable, from the beginning to the end of the Scriptural records.
We will only direct attention especially to the descriptions of the trance
cWKlitioo, as given by Samuel to Saul
THE SPIRITUALIST.
327
July 14, 1876.
“ The Spirit of the Lord will come upon thee, thou shalt prophesy with them, i( j
and shalt he turned into another man.”—1 Sara. x'. 6. By Ezekiel ii. 2, “ And j ( !
the Spirit entered into me. When he spake unto me, and set me upon my feet, j j
that I heard him that spake unto me.” And again by Daniel (x. 8, 9), when he | j
saw a vision he says, “ And I retained no strength. Yet heard I the voice of his ) |
words: and when I heard the voice, of his words, then was I in a deep sleep on ( !
my face, and my face towards the ground. And behold a hand touched me, which (j
set me upon my knees, and upon the palms of my hands,” &c. ) I
These descriptions correspond entirely with the trance conditions of (j
the present day. ) |
THE NEW DISPENSATION. j) ]
Under the order of this dispensation we are now living. To pass on j| j
to the New Testament, we find in Christ’s life an uninterrupted record w j
of Spiritualistic manifestations. !(i
Angels, or spirits, appeared, and by the direct spirit voice announced j (i
to the Virgin Mary the approaching birth of Christ. Luke i. 28, and | / j
following verses. See also in Luke ii., from the 9th verse, how an I (|
angel came and spoke to the shepherds. In verse 13 we read, “Sud- j! j
denly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host, praising j j i
God.” \ .
At Christ’s baptism, Matt. iii. IT, a direct voice from heaven came j |
saying, “ This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.” j) j
In Matt. iv. 11, we read how Christ, after having been “ tempted of j( j
the devil,” had “ angels come to minister to him.” j
If Christ, the impersonation of the Deity, required and received such !) ]
aid during his life on earth, we may be very sure that similar help will j (j
not be withheld from any of his followers. ; | j
In the “ transfiguration,” the spirits of Moses and Elias came and j) I
“ talked with Jesus.”—Mark ix. 4. See Luke xxii. 43. In the account j( j
of “ Christ’s agony in the garden,” “ There appeared an angel unto him, j j
from heaven, strengthening him. Note also Matt. xxvi. 53. At the |) !
“ crucifixion,” “ The bodies of the saints which slept arose . . . and went (j
into the holy city, and appeared unto many.”—Matt, xxvii. 52.
A remarkable instance of the power spirits have over material or ) j
physical objects is given in Matt, xxviii. 2, and Luke xxiv. 2, where we J j
find that “An angel of the Lord rolled back the stone from the door of j j
Christ's sepulchre.” This power is not lost, or even withheld in the ) j
present day, as all who have the slightest knowledge of Spiritualism j j
well know how heavy pieces of furniture are continually moved about by ) |
an unseen intelligence. < !
The knowledge we now possess of the power of spirits to materialise (]
bodies (of which mention has been made), explains all the mystery that / i
has hitherto hung over the subject of the resurrection, as to whether (j
Christ appeared in his earthly body, or no. The descriptions given by (j
the disciples of His appearance to them prove beyond a doubt that it ) j
was His spirit, clothed with a temporarily materialised body; and for the ( |
purpose of recognition, when the unbelieving Thomas demanded tests of (j
identity, He would even show him the “ prints of the nails ” in His | j
hands, and the wound in the side.—(John xx. 25.) j (j
In proof of this belief we find that Christ appeared “suddenly,” “in j( j
different forms,” and that He would ” vanish out of their sight ” after j / j
having talked and eaten with His disciples.—Mark xvi. 9. He showed j (
Himself first to ” Mary Magdalene.” In the 12th verse of the same
chapter we read “After that He appeared, in another form, unto two of j)
them.” This verse refers to the walk to Emmaus, a full account of j(
which we find in Luke xxiv. 15, and following verses—“ While they com- j >
muned together.1' ... “ Jesus Himself drew near” ... “ But their eyes j /
were holden that they should not know Him.” Having walked, talked, | (
and eaten with them, we read in 3lst ver., “ Their eyes were opened, and | j
they knew Him, and He vanished out of their sight." i)
From the 86 th verse, in same chapter, we find as the eleven disciples | \
were assembled “Jesus Himself stood in their midst," and having again j j
eaten and conversed with them, “ He led them out as far as Bethany, j)
and He lifted up His hands and blessed them.” ... “ While He blessed j (
them He was parted from them, and carried up into Heaven.” j j
Both before and after the resurrection we read that Christ bestowed |)
upon His disciples different “ spiritual gifts.” j \
Had not these gifts been looked upon by Him as needful for the j;
highest good of His followers, we may be sure He would not have given | (
them. His words, ‘‘ These signs shall follow those who believe”—Mark |s
xvi. 17—show that they were intended for beneficent uses. And also j)
that these uses were not to be restricted to the circumstances attendant j (
upon the first planting of Christianity only, we may know from Christ’s j s
words in John xiv. 12, ** Greater works than these shall ye do, because !/
1 go to the Father.” (
It is also evident that the disciples believed and taught that these
“ signs” or “gifts ” were “for all future ages,” for in Acts ii. 29, Peter j)
says “ The promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all that are ! (
afar off.” . . ,
The book of “ The Acts of the Apostles ” is full of accounts of spiritual j ?
manifestations, entirely similar to events that are of ordinary occurrence K
(especially with Spiritualists) in the present day. The second chapter j>
contains an account of the first seance held by the disciples after Christ’s j)
ascension. ]s
“ They were all with one accord in one place " ... “ Suddenly there came a j /
sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filed all vie house where u
they were sitting." . .. “And there appeared unto them cloven tongues, like as of j<
fire.” , . . “ And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with n
other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance." j)
“ The multitude came together, and were confounded, because every man heard \)
them speak in his own language.” K
The sound “as of a rushing mighty wind ” is now frequently heard j)
during Spiritualistic stances, and is known to indicate the presence of j(
strong spirit power. The spirit lights “ like cloven tongues as of fire ” j)
also come; sometimes in that very shape, as well as in many other it
forms. K
The “ gift of tongues,” by which “ every man heard his own lan¬
guage,” corresponds to the mediumship now in our midst, whereby spirits
cause the medium to converse, or write in languages foreign to his own,
and of which he is entirely ignorant.
It is not unusual for the spirit power to be so strong as to cause every
article of furniture in the room, and even the room itself, to vibrate and
shake, as if an earthquake were approaching. * In Acts iv. 31, we find
reference to an exactly similar experience, “And when they had prayed
the place was shaken."
Paul, when released from prison, relates how “ Suddenly there was a
great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken;
and immediately all the doors were opened, and every one's bands were
loosed." An earthquake might have caused the doors to open, but it
certainly would not have “ loosened the bands ” of the prisoners, Acts
xvi. 26. Again when Peter was in prison—
“ The angel of the Lord came upon him, and a light shined in the prison. And
he smote Peter on the side, and raised him up." . ..“ And his chains fell offfrom
his hands.” And the angel (or spirit) said, “ Gird thyself, bind on thy sandals.
. . . Cast thy garments about thee, and follow me.” . .. When they were past the
first and second ward, they came unto the iron gate.” . . . “ Which opened to them
of its own accord, and they went out and passed on through one street, and forth¬
with the angel departed from him."
These “ministering spirits’’are now, as ever, “sent forth to
minister.” In the biography of the “ Brothers Davenport,” by Dr.
Nichols, we find a corresponding experience, which may be quoted.
The declaration here given, “ was made in the most solemn form pos¬
sible, and under the sanction of an oath taken before two magis¬
trates ”:—
“ Be it known to all people, that in the seventh month, a.d. 1859, we, the
undersigned, were imprisoned in the common jail in the City of Oswego, N. Y.,
on account of propagating our religious principles; and that after twenty-nine
days of our confinement, at evening, when we were all in our prison-room
together, as we had just been locked in by the jailor, we having truly
answered to his call, a (spirit) voice spoke and said, ‘ Rand, you are to go out of
this place this night. Put on your coat and hat, be ready 1 Immediately the
door was thrown open, and the voice again spoke and said, ‘ Now walk quickly
out, and on to the attic window yonder, and let thyself down by a rope, and flee
from this place. We will take care of the boys. There are many angels present,
though but one speaks.'
“ That this did absolutely occur in our presence, we do most solemnly and
positively affirm, before God, and angels, and men.
“ Subscribed and sworn before me, this first day of August, 1859. (Signed.)
“ James Baenes, Justice of the Peace.”
“ Ira Erastus Davenport.”
“ Luke P. Rand.”
In Acts viii. it is narrated how Philip, by the direct Spirit voice, was
told to meet the “ man of Ethiopia,” and how, having fulfilled the
mission upon which he found he was sent {i.e. to explain the Scriptures
and teach him of Christ), “ the Spirit of the Lord caught him away,
that the Eunuch saw him no more.”. . . “ But Philip was found at
Azotus.” Mrs. Guppy, Mr. Herne, Dr. Monck, and other mediums
now living have been thus carried from place to place.
In truth, as we find the Scriptures verified in the marvellous events
of the present day, we can but recall the words of Solomon in Eccles.
i. 9
u The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be, and that which is done, is
that which shall be done.”
Again, in Eccles. iii. 14
“ Whatsoever God doeth, it shall be for ever."
But in the Apostles’ time, as now, there was blind unbelief 1 Agrippn,
like multitudes of the present day, refused to accept the truth of Spirit¬
ualism. Paul, when taken before him, thus addressed him: “ Why
should it be thought a thing incredible that God should raise the deadi ”,
(Acts xxvi. 8); and then relates his own mediumistic experiences.
Throughout the Epistles we find reference to “ spiritual gifts,” and
warnings against “ evil spirits.” Paul, in Bom. i. 11, writes
“ For I long to see you, that I may impart unto you some spiritual gift, to the
end that ye may be established.”
See also 1 Cor. xii. 1: “ Now concerning spiritual gifts, I would not
have you ignorant.” And, in verse 31, he desires his followers to “ covet
earnestly the best gifts.” Paul writes, in 1 Cor. xiv. 12: “ For as much
as ye are zealous of spiritual gifts, seek that ye may excel to the edifying
of the church.” The true translation of this passage would read—
“ zealous or zealots of spirits.”
In Heb. xii. 1, he encourages Christians to be “ constant in faith,
patience, and godliness," because of “ so great a cloud of witnesses,”
these “ witnesses ” being the spirits of their forefathers, spoken of in
the preceding chapter.
John, in his First Epistle (iv.), says: “ Believe not every spirit, but
try the spirits, whether they are of God, because many false prophets arc
gone out into the world.”
The reference given to 1 Cor. xiv. 32, proves the “ spirits ” here
spoken of were those in the spirit land, and not, as is frequently argued
by disbelievers in Spiritualism, the spirits of living persons! for it
says:—
“ The spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets.”
In Eph. vi. 12, Paul warns his followers against evil spirits :—
“ For we wrestle not with flesh and blood, but against the riders of the dark¬
ness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.”
The argument is often used that we have no proof that the spirits
spoken of in the Bible are the spirits of those who have lived on earth.'
Also, that “ angels ” are not “ spirits,” etc.
The terms “ spirits,” “ angels,” and “ messengers ” are synonymous.
We know that “ Samuel” appeared to Saul. He came as a true, and
not as a false prophet. We have, therefore, no reason to suppose this
appearance was against God’s desire.
July 14, 1876.
328 THE SPIRITUALIST.
Moses and Elias came and talked with Christ and two of his disciples
at the transfiguration.
In Rev. xxii., 6th verse, we read, <{ The Lord of the Holy Prophets sent His
anjel to show unto His servants the things which must shortly be done.” 16th
ver., “ I, Jesus, have sent mine angel to testify unto these things in the churches."
But when John was about to ‘ ‘ fall down and worship the angel,” He said to
John, “ See thou do it not, for I am thy fellow servant, and of thy brethren the
prophets.” 8, 9 verses.
These few proofs, which might—did space permit—be greatly ex¬
tended, will be sufficient to show that so-called “ Modern Spiritualism ”
is but a fresh, full influx of the same spirit power that has, happily,
through all ages, kept the “gates ajar” between this world and the
spirit world around us.
Just now, when materialism and infidelity are strong in our midst—
whilst many, even of our earnest thinking Christian men, are beginning
to doubt the so-called “ miracles ” of the Bible—the needed help is
given. Facts identical with these miracles are of daily occurrence.
The reverent investigator into Spiritualism will find that in its light
much that was obscure and mysterious is explained and illuminated.
Nothing can support the Bible so thoroughly as a belief in Spiritualism
—nothing else makes it so clear.
Truly may we still rejoice in the i( cloud of witnesses” around us, and
the hourly proofs we have of the truth of the words—
“ To which of the angels said He, at any time, Sit on mg right hand, until 1
make thine enemies thy footstool ? Are they not all ministering spirits sent forth
to minister for them ivho shall be heirs of salvation? ”
A CURIOUS SPIRITUALISTIC TRIAL IN PARIS.
(From the 11 Daily Telegraph,” July Qth.') I)
PARIS, Wednesday Midnight. !j
Is a person who believes in Spiritualism to be pronounced insane? j)
That is practically the question submitted to the Civil Tribunal of the |(
Seine. The Princess de Beauveau-Craon asks that Isabeau, her K
daughter, shall be declared incapable of managing her own affairs, by j)
reason of a weakness of the intellectual faculties with which she has | (
been seized. What Princess Beauveau-Craon alleges as a proof of the i j
justness of her claim is that her daughter is afflicted with the manie des ||
persecutions, and particularly that she has been led to adopt most absurd i l
theories on the subject of Spiritualism. Some time ago the Princess n
applied for a similar rule, but the judges, though very matter-of-fact j)
individuals, labouring under no suspicion of Spiritualistic tendencies, j j
did not feel justified in granting it on that occasion. |j
The advocate of the noble mother again appeared before the court i)
yesterday, and represented that he was prepared to submit a mass of i (
additional facts which would alter the whole position of the case. He i)
then proceeded to give an account of an escape effected by the daughter i)
now sought to be put under restraint, and described the part taken in i j
the transaction by Baron Guldenstubbe, a Spiritualist medium. Counsel i j
relied chiefly on the statements of the Princess Isabeau herself to esta- ! j
blish a cause for granting the rule.
The confessions of this lady are truly extraordinary, but seem to i j
indicate a disordered mind, apart altogether from any convictions she i)
may have received on the subject of Spiritualism. I give you a few j \
extracts from her statements to the judge who examined her.
She said : I am 32 years of age, and reside at the Hotel de Touraine, |)
Rue Taitbout, Paris. I have known Baron Guldenstubbe since June, ||
1868. The misunderstanding that has existed between my mother and j
myself arose from her desire to control the fortune left me by my ij
father.
The Judge: Your sentiments towards your mother were at one time ;)
characterised by such hatred that you suspected her of an attempt to
poison you?
The Princess: I never believed that my mother intended that, and if ] j
I had one of the bottles of wine analysed it was because I thought it i j
contained noxious substances put into it by a domestic that I desired j (
should not be allowed to approach me. They paid no attention to my ; 5
supplications on that subject. That servant was still allowed to remain j <
in the house, and whenever I saw him I used to become sick. They j j
used to pretend that he was away, but I had a presentiment that he was ] j
about somewhere, and when I pressed them hard on the point they had j j
to admit that it was true. One day his presence was divulged to me by j j
a dog which had been thrown into a well a month before.
The Judge: Was not the state of health of which you complain pro¬
duced by the frequent application of electric shocks to your system j j
which injured your nerves ?
The Princess: As I was suffering from the presence of the domestic |)
to whom I have alluded, and from drinking the wine which he prepared j j
for me, I took a number of electric baths, the effect of which I under- i j
stood was to remove all injurious elements from the system.
The Judge: Have you not given yourself up to the study of Spirit- I j
ualism in order that you might be able to put yourself in communication i 5
with the dead, and to invoke spirits ?
The Princess: Neither Baron Guldenstubbe nor his sister ever initi- j |
ated me in the science of Spiritualism. They may know a great deal on : 5
the subject, but they never enlightened me much. They spoke to me i j
about manuscripts, but never showed them to me. I should have liked | j
nothing better than for them to have told me something on the subject. |)
The Judge: Did you not always carry a loaded revolver ?
The Princess: No; only when I went to a ball, for example. I had i j
the revolver near me when I was in bed, however, and a loaded gun i)
besides; but that was to command the respect of the servants.
Besides these facts about the aberrations of this lady, there were also i j
a number of strange circumstances elicited in the course of the trial j j
about Baron Guldenstubbe, who was to have been married to the l]
respondent, and his book on Spirituahsm. The nature of that work '
may be imagined when it is stated that the Baron there sets forth the
means by which he obtained through a purely spiritual agency the
autographs of a number of historical characters of several centuries ago.
The Court has not yet made known its decision on the case.
SPIRITUALISM AND SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY IN
BARCELONA.
The following are extracts from a letter from Dr. Locander in a
recent number of the lievue Spirite, of Paris:—
“ Announced as an American Spiritualist, coming from France, I was
received, and my wife also, with every mark of the kindest sympathy.
. . . There are six thousand Spiritualists in this Spanish town of Bar¬
celona. There are many speaking, seeing, and writing mediums.
“ A French spirit took possession of the body of a medium, and spoke
to me in that language for a long time; the French language was
entirely unknown'to the medium. The chief people of the town are
not afraid to join themselves to the society, which is under the presi¬
dency of M. Pedro Yaleng, and all said to me:—‘ Mr. Locander, you are
our brother, our house is yours, come to us when and as much as you
will; if you require our help, we are ever ready to give it.’ Such fra¬
ternity is rarely found, and in this respect, as well as in many others,
I can aver that the Barcelona societies are much more advanced than
those of other cities that I have visited; their merit is all the greater,
since they have to struggle continually against the dogmatists, who are
vexed at the progress which our cause is making.
“ M. Pedro Valeng works, so to speak, night and day for Spiritualism:
he is a healing medium; he is rich and respected; his devotion is with¬
out limits, and it was with the deepest feeling that he alluded to his
brother in France, M. Leymarie, and his trials.
“ I also met the photographer, Del Siglio. He was present at a
meeting at the house of M. Valeng. M. Del Siglio, of 95, Scale de
I’Hopitale, obtains curious spirit photographs. I sat four times
at his studio, and it was not until the fourth negative that I ob¬
tained a large cross covered with flowers, which almost entirely
hid my person; on other negatives a sort of fluidic cloud almost
hid everything. Before the jiose, the photographic medium asked
my advice about a sick relation. I replied that there was no re¬
medy for his illness; that he might live a few weeks, or die at any
moment (he had an interior tumour). The photographer, when he saw
this cross, imagined that it announced the near decease of his relation.
The next day the sick person died, and this coincidence made me think
that M. Del Siglio had spoken truly; perhaps some good friend in space,
some guide of the departed, had given us a warning and a lesson.
“ M. Del Siglio is entirely disinterested; he refused the money I
offered him, for, he said, that in so noble a cause such money would
burn his fingers; he receives Spiritualists, and makes his experiments
for the pleasure of paying homage to the truth.”
Puofessionai, mediums are gradually springing up among Australian
Spiritualists.
A Ghost Riot.—Robert Withey, 13, a lad employed at a machine-
ruler’s in the Borough, was brought before Mr. Benson, at the South¬
wark police-court last week, charged with throwing stones in New
Weston-street, to the danger of the inhabitants.—Alfred Chase, a con¬
stable, said that a little after 8 o’clock on the previous(Tue8day) evening,
he was called to New Weston-street, Bermondsey, adjacent to the house
where Mannings, the murderers, formerly lived. He saw between
three and four hundred men, women, and boys assembled in front of one
of the houses, shouting, “ There’s the ghost! There’s the black ghost!
There are the Mannings 1” Several lads were throwing stones at the
house, and he heard the windows smash.—Mr. Benson asked if it was
the same house where the Mannings had resided, and witness replied in
the negative. That house was on the opposite side, some way up the
street. Just as witness turned the corner he saw the prisoner take up a
stone and throw at the house.—The magistrate inquired how long this
ghost disturbance had been going on.—The witness answered that he
understood it commenced on Friday last, and every evening since then
mobs of three or four hundred had collected in front of the house. He
did not see the elder persons throw stones, but they shouted out
“ Ghost!” and caused the boys to throw stones.—-A drayman living next
door said the assemblage of the mob was an intolerable nuisance. In
fact, it was dangerous, as stones were thrown in all directions. At
times they could not get into the house.—Mr. Henry Hooper, residing
at Highbury, said that the house belonged to him. The last tenant
absconded a few weeks ago, without paying rent, and he had only gained
possession a week, and was putting it in repair for another tenant. On
Saturday last he first heard the foolish rumour that a ghost was in the
house, and when the mob assembled he invited any of the elder people
to enter the house and see for themselves. They, however, declined,
and kept on shouting, and the windows and frames were smashed. Ho
was positive that more than £10 damage had been committed. Some of
the mob called out, “ It’s the black woman!” and others that it was
“ the Mannings.”—A woman residing in one of the adjoining houses
said she was afraid to live in the place, as stones were thrown, and the
mob threatened to pull the house down. She complained bitterly of the
want of police. She had been to the station-house, and requested a few
constables to protect them, but no notice had been taken of it.—Mr.
Benson told her that the police could not take the mob into custody,
neither could they apprehend the ghost. He, however, recommended
the superintendent to put on a few more constables, and take those into
custody who incited the boys to throw stones, and if brought before hinr
he would punish them severely. As for the prisoner, he fined him 10s.,
or seven days, and ordered his father to enter into his recognisances to
keep the peace for three months.
July 14, 1876.
829
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS
AND THE PRESS.
The following letter was written under the impression
that a member of the National Association of Spiritualists
was going to move that the press should be excluded from
the Council meetings, which Mr. Calder has since informed
us was not the intention, and is an error on our part. Never¬
theless, as it contains remarks on the relationship of organi¬
sations to the press, which may be worth consideration, we
publish it. An altogether different resolution was moved
by Mr. Rogers, so that in reality the following letter bears
no relation to his line of action:—
38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O., July 7th, 1876.
Dear Mr. Calder,—I have heard from yourself and Mr.
Martin Smith that Mr. E. D. Rogers has suggested to you
that in future the press shall be excluded from the National
Association Council Meetings ; that the proceedings of the
Council shall be conducted in private, and reports furnished
by the Council to the outside world. You also ask me to
inform you whether I would print such reports if sent to me.
From the first day The Spiritualist was started the whole
of its literary space has been perfectly free and altogether
unpledged to the use of anybody but the editor. Whilst
this must continue to be the case, of course I should desire to
publish any communications sent to me by a responsible
body like the Council of the National Association of
Spiritualists, and if the said communications do not exceed
in length the reports of meetings furnished two or three
times of late by Miss Kislingbury, averaging three-quarters
of a column, I do not anticipate that there will be any
practical impediment to their publication.
Whilst thus offering no factious opposition to the Council
I think the proposed line of action exceedingly dangerous,
for the following reasons :—
(1) That a great public body like the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, doing public work, and supported by
public contributions, should hold its meetings in strict
privacy, and permit its own supporters and the outside public
to know only so much of its proceedings as it chooses, will,
I think, altogether weaken public confidence. Such a line
of action will probably have the same effect upon the mem¬
bers of the National Association, as would an announcement
to the general public that Parliament intended to exclude
the press, and to let the world know just so much of its own
doings as it chose.
(2) In trying to report your own proceedings I think you
would sow the seeds of violent disunion. Scarcely anybody
who takes part in a debate is satisfied with any report which
appears in any newspaper; each [speaker thinks that his
own remarks should have been reported at greater length,
and that those opposed to him have been allowed too much
space. Further, the minority in any division think that
great injustice has been done to them unless the report
makes it appear that the majority were altogether in the
wrong. Consequently, if you set such elements to draw up
their own reports among themselves, you can turn any
organisation into a bear garden. The Photographic Society
of London never, I believe, went to the extreme length of
excluding the press from its meetings ; but in trying to con¬
tinue its journal in newspaper fashion, instead of keeping it
to a bare record of papers read, it planted such seeds of dis¬
union that in years past stormy meetings were held about
the contents of its journal, and great secessions took place
among the members now and then, in consequence of the
disputes.
(3) The public like the present system, and I doubt
whether they will be at all satisfied to see those whom they
have entrusted with their funds, and with their public busi¬
ness, withdrawing from the public gaze, and furnishing
them with ex parte instead of independent reports of what
has taken place. On this point they will no doubt speak for
themselves.
(4) Nobody attaches much weight to reports such as Mr.
Rogers proposes. If one of them is drawn up in the first
instance by a shorthand writer, first this paragraph is struck
out by resolution because it does not please this person, then
Ii that paragraph is struck out by resolution because it does
not please that person, until in the end you have a washed
out and milk-and-water result which nobody cares to read.
(5) Although nobody is ever satisfied with any newspaper
report, there is a quick remedy whenever there is a real
| grievance, because those who have anything real to complain
about can call for the publication of corrected statements.
If they do not do so, but seek to gag the press, they stand
self-condemned.
(6) An objection to organisations has been that in some
| instances, even in modern ones connected with the smaller
sects they have grown into tyrannical engines, and some of
j your own members hesitated to join the National Associa-
| tion of Spiritualists for some time, lest it should have a
similar career in the future. Anything of this nature is
more likely to spring up in connection with a Council hold-
! . ing hole-and-corner meetings in secret, and reporting just
I 1 as much of its proceedings as it chooses, than in connection
! with an organisation conducting all its affairs in broad day-
| | light. In the latter case any tendency to that line of action
|! is nipped in the bud by the interposition of the voice of the
I j general public before it is too late.
In this matter all responsibility rests with the Council.
)j If its proceedings are not to be reported, it is necessary that
m the resolution admitting the press shall be rescinded, and
| j that reporters shall be refused entrance.
There is little doubt that if the proceedings of the last
j) Council had been revised by the various speakers, several of
I I the speeches reported in The Spiritualist of June 23rd would
1)1 have been struck out, although the public will see that
||| . they are all of interest, and ought to have been published.
If the Council resolves to try any press experiments like
| j those recommended by Mr. Rogers, I will offer no factious
opposition merely because in my individual opinion the
| | results will be damaging; on the contrary, I have the desire
I ! to help the Council in any experiments of the kind it may
| | try, however dangerous they may appear to be.
Your proceedings are now conducted in public like those
jjj of a Town Council, or of Parliament itself, and in years to
m come it may be that a representative body of Spiritualists
| j will have to consider questions of great public interest, and
j I to take influential action thereon; but it is safe to conclude
I I that the Spiritualist public will not entrust such weighty
m matters to any controlling power holding its sittings in
private, and withholding information as to the way in which
Hi its individual members vote.—Very truly yours,
   W. H. Harrison.
SPIRITUALISM IN LIVERPOOL.
Last Sunday Dr. William Hitchman and Mr. John Priest occupied
the platform of Meyerbeer Hall, Liverpool. Dr. Hitchman, in an able
address, advocated the healthful and spiritual influence of “ work,”
) whether of hands or head ; he upheld the claims of the worker in every
m capacity, whether as the wielder of the spade, the loom, the pen, or the
tongue, as the only member of society worthy of the respect and honour
iof mankind. Under the title of “ Co-operation in its Relations to
Spiritualism,” which was the name of his address, he set forth in
i various illustrations its practical advantages, and concluded by saying:
“ Thus shall the cause we all have at heart redound to the glory of God,
and the welfare of man throughout the world.”
Mr. John Priest took for his subject the fertile one of the prayer
Ij taught by Christ, commonly called “the Lord’s prayer.” On the pas-
!(! sages, “ Our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name,” and.
Hi “ Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done,” Mr. Priest founded remarks
|) i redolent of the highest teachings which were seen in the life and taught
in the precepts of the Great Master; and which he adapted to the
present state of society. The freshness and fervour of this prayer, he
|}| remarked, still hallowed the soul; and, after descanting on the passage,
iji “ Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those that trespass against us,”
he concluded by pointing out the divinity of that universal charity
j|| which is the best stepping-stone to the mansions of the blest.
IMrs. Weldon’s Orphanage.—Mrs. Weldon writes :—“ I may men¬
tion that, should any one feel interested in my work, there is a new
i\ American toy which amuses people by its shape and its method of
Hi disposing of coin. It consists of a little cast-iron man, into whose
j) upheld hand one may place a penny or a sovereign. He accepts either
i j with equal gratitude, gracefully bowing his head as he passes it into
Hi his left breast pocket. I have a few placed out with several friends,
i) j and in shops in various localities. They earn on an average (at present,
jjj as nouveautes) about ten shillings a week, so seductive is this little
|j j Yankee ! If he earned but Jive shiliinys a week, and if I could per-
i)j suade sixty sympathisers to keep one of these little‘grab-alls’going
Ijj for two or three years, I should be quite safe to gather my little brood
ill of fifty orphans together as fast as I could find them.”
330
THE SPIHITUALIST.
July 14, 1876.
MRS. WELDON’S CONCERT.
Mrs. Weldon’s invitation concert will come off next
Wednesday evening, at Great St. James’s Hall, Regent-
circus, doors open at half-past seven, to commence at eight.
Any of the readers of The Spiritualist can obtain invitations by
writing to her for them at Tavistock House, Tavistock-square,
W.C. The orchestra is led by Mr. Pollitzer, and composed
of the members of the Covent-garden and Drury-lane opera
houses. The conductors are the. celebrated composers, Mr.
Alfred Cellier, Mr. Hamilton Clarke, and Mr. John Urich.
The Alexandra Palace chorus and Gounod choirs will take
part in the proceedings, which will commence with li Jeanne
D’Arc,” composed by Gounod. The concert, which will be
a repetition of the one given by Mrs. Weldon at the same
place a few weeks ago, will be of the highest class, and well
worth attending. Some of the children in Mrs. Weldon’s
Orphanage, aged from two years five months upwards, will
give a few songs and recitations, occupying altogether about
aquarter of an hour. In the middle of the proceedings there will
be a collection for the benefit of the Orphanage. Mrs. Wel¬
don is very willing to receive and educate some of the orphan
children of Spiritualists, and she prefers to take them in
when they are very young indeed. As her establishment is
already in full working order, with house and grounds already
provided, all additional funds will go directly to the saving
of poor children from a career of want and misery; they will
be trained to help each other, and will receive a sufficiently
good and refined education, to be able to take a better posi¬
tion in life than that of domestic servants.
DR. SLADE’S VISIT TO ENGLAND.
By the time these lines are published, Dr. Slade, who has
long been noted as about the best test medium for physical
manifestations in the United States, will probably have
arrived in London, in company with his niece and with his
business partner, Mr. Simmons.
The manifestations obtained through Dr. Slade’s medium-
ship in the past have been of the most varied description,
but at his more recent professional seances in New York,
direct spirit writing, the appearance of spirit hands, and the
moving of furniture in the light without contact with
human beings, have been the chief phenomena. His system
in New York has been to admit but two sitters at a time to
his daylight seances, which rule has been stringently carried
out. Sometimes these visitors have brought their own
slates, have screwed two of them together with a crumb of
pencil between, and under these conditions direct spirit
writing has been given between the slates. Spirit hands
and arms sometimes came out from under the table while
Dr. Slade is sitting at it, and solid objects, such as chairs,
frequently travel about the room in daylight, while nobody
is touching them, just as they once did so commonly through
the mediumship of Mrs. Mary Marshall, in London. In
fact, for good daylight seances, or the common production in
the light of inexplicable phenomena calculated to convert
disbelievers, no professional medium in England has ever
equalled Mrs. Marshall, and if any of our present physical
mediums would sit for strong and simple manifestations in
daylight until they could obtain them with certainty, they
would be able to meet a public want.
Dr. Slade, we believe, was in the habit of holding occa¬
sional seances in the evening, at New York, to which more
persons were admitted at a time than to those he held during
the day. Of the nature of these evening stances we have
as yet received no information, but a year or two ago reports
published in the Banner of Light, told how he gave mate¬
rialisation stances under the following conditions. A dark
cloth was nailed over the entrance door of the seance room,
and the spectators, with Dr. Slade in their midst, sat facing
it, with a table between themselves and the door; as they
thus sat facing the door the whole time, they had evidence
that no other person entered the seance room. About a yard
in front of the door a string passed from one side of the
room to the other, with a piece of cloth about a yard square
hanging upon it; in the centre of this cloth was a hole
about the size of the crown of a hat, and through which
materialised spirit faces showed themselves. Shortly before
the faces came, this piece of cloth would whisk up in the
air, showinsr there was nothing between it and the door.
the faces would begin to
life in them, and were
Then it would fall back, and
show themselves. They had no
mask-like.
Next week we shall be able to give more complete infor¬
mation about the manifestations obtained in the presence of
Dr. Slade.
During his stay in London he will probably take up his
residence at Mrs. Burke’s, 8, Upper Bedford-place, Russell-
square, W.C., and for the present he wishes his letters to be
addressed to the care of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, W.C.
MARRIAGE OF MR. DALE OWEN.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen was married on Friday,
June 23rd, at Lake Osage, N. Y., to Miss Kellogg, of Hart¬
ford. The New York Sun thus refers to the event:—
“ The announcement of the marriage of Robert Dale Owen
will surprise many of his friends. Mr. Owen is said to have
married Miss Lottie Walton Kellogg, granddaughter of the
Rev. Bela Kellogg, for thirty years pastor of a congregational
church near Hartford. Miss Kellogg lived in one of the
most romantic spots on the shores of Lake George. Mr.
Owen is said to have written part of his autobiography in
Miss Kellogg's pleasant home, and to have dedicated the
work to her. They will make this home their abiding place,
and will take with them the wishes of a host of friends for
a tranquil and happy life.”
• i
ill
THE FLOATING OF
A HARMONIUM AND TWO MEDIUMS
IN THE AIR,
BY HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOH.
The phenomena at Mr. Williams’s seance, at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, London, W.C., on Thursday last, may seem
exceptional enough to deserve mention. We were only five,
including Mr. Williams and Mr. Clarance, I holding Mr. Wil¬
liams’s hand, which I never let go until we finally lighted up.
Peter, the spirit, began by proposing to bring my hat from the
harmonium in the corner of the room, and the hat was accord-
ingly placed upon my head. Presently we heard the heavy har¬
monium (3ft. Sin. or 9in. wide by 2ft. 9in. high) lumbering
along towards the table, on to which it was lifted with so
little of a shock that I was not aware of the moment when
it was placed there, although I had both hands on the table.
With this weight on it the table was swayed two and fro,
and was, I believe, lifted fairly off the ground. Then, what
was new to me, we had the permanent appearance of a pale,
well defined oval light, about three inches long, which kept
moving about the harmonium. For a good while it was con¬
cealed from me by the harmonium, but at length, in answer to
my request, it came over to my side and touched my face,
and allowed me to touch it with my finger, when it appeared
to be a lamp like John King’s, only not so bright,
hard and covered with muslin, with no appearance of hands
carrying it While I was studying it, John King, with his
own light, suddenly appeared between me and Mr. Williams.
Presently Mr. Clarance was taken up, away from the gentle¬
men who were holding him on each side. Then Williams
seemed to be entranced and taken up. I never let go his
hand, and felt for him with my leg without finding him, and
asking him to place his feet on my shoulders he seemed to
rest his body on my back and shoulders with a weight of per¬
haps twenty or thirty pounds. Then wo lighted up, and
having placed my hat on the table for a moment while I took
out my purse, the hat was whisked away, and thrown on the
ground with a Yenus shell in it, which must have been taken
from the chimney piece the moment before, for it was not in
the hat when I laid it down.
31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, London, W.,
July 10, 1876.
The adjourned discussion on Mr. Volckman’s paper before the
Dialectical Society on “The Divorce Laws” will take place next
Wednesday evening.
Mb. Algernon Joy, late honorary secretary to the National As¬
sociation of Spiritualists, will leave Paris to-day or to-morrow for Ant¬
werp, and will return to London in a few days.
July 14, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
331
A REMARKABLE SEANCE.
BY BENJAMIN COLEMAN.
As the manifestation of a materialised spirit form is now
as much an established fact as any other spiritual pheno¬
menon, I should not think it necessary to add to the ac¬
cumulated evidence, but that I have in addition to this
class of phenomenal Spiritualism something to say which
will support our belief in the reality of the communion be¬
tween the denizens of the two worlds.
A lady friend of mine who was visiting London told me
that she had seen at one of Mrs. Woodforde’s meetings,
through the mediumship of Mr. Arthur Colman, the mate¬
rialised forms of her late husband and her brother, whom I
knew in life, and, as she had been promised that she should
see them again on the following Saturday evening, she
pressed mo strongly to accompany her, that I might witness
the fact for myself. Not having spent an evening in Lon¬
don for many months, I made a conditional promise that if
the day should be fine, and the state of my health permitted
me, I would come to London in time for the eight o’clock
stance; and an hour or two before that time I called upon
her, and accompanied her to Mrs. Woodforde’s rooms, where
I met Mr. Colman and several visitors.
I make these preliminary remarks for the purpose of say¬
ing, that neither Mrs. Woodforde, whom I had never met be¬
fore, nor Mr. Colman, whom I had seen but once, could
have known that I was to be present on that particular
evening. I was then informed that they conducted their
Saturday evening stance in two parts, the first in entire
darkness, and the second with a moderator lamp burning in
the apartment where the visitors sit, whilst the inner room
—divided from the other by a curtain with a square frame¬
work in the centre—is used as a cabinet. All present formed
a serai-circle, and were requested to join hands for our
mutual satisfaction. The medium sat alone at a distance of
about six feet from me, and,, as soon as the light was ex¬
tinguished, he proved to us his whereabouts by clapping his
hands continuously, and in the measured time of a clock
pendulum. He was not entranced, and his first remarks
were made to me:—“ I see a spirit standing by you who
says he knew you very well.” “ Will you describe him ? ”
I asked. “ He is partially bald, of low stature, full round
features.”
My imagination at once led me to suppose that he was
about to describe my step-son Harry, who in my earlier
experience gave me several proofs of his presence. But the
medium went on in a slow, halting strain, as if he were
listening to a prompter, “ He wears glasses; has short
whiskers. He says he lent you many books ; his name, he
says, is Alexander.”
This at once destroyed my first impression, and the result
in this case annihilates the theory of unconscious cere¬
bration ” or of clairvoyant mind-reading.
My thoughts then turned to my brother-in-law, whose
name was Alexander; but his features were not round, and
he did not wear spectacles, and not wishing to monopolise
the time, and thinking it a failure, I said, “ I do not recognise
any one whom I have known, and you had better pass on to
others unless you can get the surname.” At this instant
the medium seemed to be trying to catch a name which ho
very nearly pronounced, and then the whole question of iden¬
tity burst upon me, and I repeated the name Alexander
Blank, apologising for my dulness of comprehension. At
that moment a small well-formed chubby hand and fingers,
which in themselves were a portrait, patted me caressingly
on the back of my hand, which was resting on my knee (my
wrist being held by the lady sitting next to me), and a
voice, as if from a person standing close to me, said, in a
distinct whisper, “ You are very welcome to the books my
wife gave you,” and then patting my hand a second time
slipped into it a small piece of paper, upon which I pre¬
sumed his name was written, and which I put into my waist¬
coat pocket, telling the visitors what had occurred, and
assuring them that all the details which the medium had
given were (with a trifling exception) most accurate. I do
not here repeat all that was said, nor do I give the name
lest it might be objected to by the widow and some members
I of his family, who are opposed to Spiritualism. But all
who read this paper may be told that I was the means of
bringing my friend Alexander Blank over from Materialism
| to a full faith in Spiritualism, and before his conversion I
I lent him many books. None of his family, came to his
| funeral. I accompanied his wife to the cemetery where he
! was buried, and on our way back she said to me, “ I am sure
| it would have given my husband pleasure to know that you
j had some of his spiritual books ; pray come and select any
I you please.” I accordingly went to the house shortly after,
j and took away six volumes which I had not in my library,
i and thus the words, 11 You are welcome to the books my wife
| gave you,” were most pertinent and convincing to me of the
i actual presence of a disembodied intelligence.
Mr. Colraan then went on talking to others, and at the
i close of this the first part of the stance the gas was lighted,
| and I at once took from my pocket the small piece of paper
i on which I hoped to find that Alexander Blank’s name in
full had been written, but to my very great surprise I found
I it was a photographic likeness of my late friend. I showed
| it to all present, who saw that it realised the description ot
| the bald head, round features, and spectacles. The photo¬
graph had never been mounted, as is usual, on a card, but
i was, as I have said, on paper, and from its soiled appearance
I it was doubtless taken many years ago. I have since called
| upon the widow, and without telling her anything about the
i proceedings of that evening I inquired if she had in her
i possession such a photograph; she said she had several in
j | her album, and two that were framed, all of which she
i I showed me, but all of them were of a much more recent
I date than the one in question.
Previous to the commencement of the second part of the
I evening’s stance, we were invited to examine the inner room,
I which is plainly furnished, with a sofa at the far end, upon
I which the medium reclines when he goes into the trance
j state, in which state it is understood that he is oblivious to
I all external surroundings, and his “ control,” whose name
! is John Scott, directs the proceedings and answers questions.
Within a few minutes after the medium had left us, there
| appeared several beautifully formed feminine hands and arms,
| bare up to the shoulder, and at one time there were three
| visible to us at once.
This was followed by the appearance of a female face and
I body, with a profusion of gauze drapery, and two male faces,
! one of which my friend recognised as her brother; but though
| I cannot affirm her impression, I can say positively that all
! the heads and bodies which appeared at the open space in
| the curtain were to all appearance living persons, and none
! who bore the least resemblance to the only individual who
; was not seen—Mr. Arthur Colman, whose complexion is
i pale, with prominent, sharp features, and remarkably light-
| coloured hair.
I was seated next but one to a lady who, sitting as she
| was, more forward than myself, came within the range of
I vision as I observed the life-like forms which occupied the
j)j frame in the curtain, and presently I saw her start as if she
| had experienced a sudden shock from an electric battery,
I and, losing for the moment all thought of the special object
| j of my visit, I felt intensely interested in watching the im-
I pression which the manly, dark-complexioned person, with
| | full black beard, who then appeared, made upon this silent
I lady, who was evidently almost overwhelmed by the appear-
| j ance of the materialised spirit-form before her.
The lamp had been raised by the direction of John Scott,
| and by this means the white drapery which enveloped the
| j head and figure was plainly seen, and the face itself, with
its marked teatures, was unmistakable to any one who had
1)! known it in life.
The figure first raised his arms above his head, then
I! clasped them across his breast, and reverently bowing, as if
| before an altar, elicited from the lady a corresponding sign.
She made the sign of the cross, whilst the figure deliberately
| raised his open right hand and'touched the palm with
| the fingers of the left, and then reversed the action by
| touching the palm of the left. All the movements were made
I with great solemnity, and must have been strikingly impres-
! sive to the lady herself, who, I afterwards learnt, had never
| been to a stance of that nature, and who recognised the ma-
332
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 14, 1876.
terialised form of her husband, who was a devout Roman |
Catholic. 11
After witnessing such an unmistakable proof of identity, j j
I feel that it would be very unjust to my friends—who have |]
assured me that they too have seen relatives under similar j |
circumstances—to doubt their statements; and whether I i
may be permitted to see the forms of those who were dear to j j
me on earth or not, I am convinced that such manifestations n
as I have-been describing cannot be fraudulently imitated. I<|
The samws, therefore, who are wise enough to admit the [ j|
reality of some of the Spiritual phenomena, may make up nj
their minds that they will be forced to acknowledge this as jj<j
one of the newest and most important of Spiritual manifes- |)j
tations, and the best service they—the learned men who have |[j
ventured to look into the subject, as well as those who have 1]
boldly proclaimed their conversion—can render to the j/j
unlearned men like myself, will be to explain them; not nj
that I think they can succeed in ignoring Spiritualism, but j<j
they may, and I am sure (when they seriously grapple with j) j
and arrange established facts) they will be able to change, j jj
or at least modify our general views, and place the varied j j |
manifestations in their respective scientific positions. I |
will further venture to claim the attention of those new j |
workers to a consideration of this fact—at least it is a fact j I!
of my recent limited experiences—that there is some j j
difference in the % creation,” so to speak, between the Katie n|
Kings and Florence Maples who first appeared amongst us, j j
bearing the manners, intellect, voice, and features of the j j|
medium, but who certainly were not in some instances the i j
medium’s self, and those materialised forms which appear jlj
only at a cabinet window, who never speak, and bear no ! |
likeness whatever to the entranced medium within. j j
This and some other points of difference which will no j I
doubt have been observed by Mr. Harrison, Mr. Tapp, and j jj
others who have devoted much time to the investigation of j j
spiritual phenomena, will be brought forward for conside- j j
ration. But is it too much to expect that the best minds in j j
the Spiritual ranks will be able to make plain the varied j j
phases of spirit power, and to decide how much of the j jl
manifestations are the work of disembodied human beings, j j
and how much, if any, are to be ascribed to any other class j j
of intelligences ? I I
To all who may devote their energies to this colossal task, j I
I desire to say that they must be prepared to see a still j j
further development of materialisations under new and in- j j
disputable conditions; nothing less, in fact, than the spirit j j
forms rising up in broad daylight, taking the empty chair j i
at the family table, and after holding converse with those j j
around, disappearing as mysteriously as they came. This I j jj
beg to say is not a wild flight of imagination, for I have I p-
good reason to believe that such an astounding fact has been j j
already witnessed in the presence of serious and competent j j
witnesses, and it is only what I ventured to predict years j j
ago would occur in due time. That time, I believe, is at j j
hand, and we may therefore expect its early realisation in j j
some of our own spiritual circles. ! i
In the course of the seance I have described, John Scott I I
brought his lamp, which gave out a strong phosphorescent j j
light, and traversing round the large room in which we were j I
seated he brought it close up to me, and permitted me to j j
touch it. It was to my senses of sight and feeling a solid | j
crystal ball. | j j
In conclusion, I think it is only an act of common justice j j
to say—without meaning to depreciate the mediumistic j j
powers of other media—that Mr. Arthur Cdlman is one of j j
the best with whom I have ever met for the class of mani- m
festations exhibited through him, whilst his superior edu- j j
cation and very gentlemanly manners lift him above that j |
jealousy which is seen in many mediums who produce j j
wonderful phenomena, but who degrade Spiritualism and j j
offend inquirers by their absurd feelings of rivalry. j j
Sunday Services in Newcastle.—The Sunday evening meetings of j(j
the Newcastle Society are well attended. This was especially the case |ji
on Sunday last, when Mr. W. Gr. Simpson lectured to an appreciative j)|
audience on the subject of “ The Existence of God, as illustrated by ] j j
the Poets.” Mr. Nicholson assisted in the evening’s labours by reading ; ji
from The Spiritualist a portion of a lecture by Mrs. Tappan. Mr. J. 1/j
Mould presided. ili
tJoetoj.
THE SPIRIT VOICE.
Only a voice in the darkness
Calm, and tender, and true;
Removed, yet near, like the thought of God,
Thrilling my spirit through.
Only a voice in the darkness!
I am blind, and cannot see
The lips that speak, nor the eyes that pour
The light of their love on me.
Dear voice, in the solemn darkness,
Oh strengthen my fainting will!
I believe—oh, help thou my unbelief,
And keep me faithful still!
Through earthly storm, and through darkness,
Guide thou my faltering feet
To the edge of the glad eternity, where
Thy path and mine shall meet!
Then into the light from the darkness,
And into thy love from the cold,
Behind me sin, and doubt, and fear,
Like a foolish tale that is told—
Into the glory and sunshine
That gleam through the unlatched door,
I shall pass to the joy of thy presence for ever,
For ever, and evermore 1
Banner of Light.
ffiomsponnence,
{Great freedom, is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE “ TIMES ” AND THE REALITY OF APPARITIONS.
Sir,—A belief in the pre-existence of the soul is spreading among
Spiritualists. By the occultist and the'reincarnationist it is, I need hardly
say, unquestioned. Those who believe in the pre-existence of the soul
will easily find a better solution of the real nature of apparitions than
The Times newspaper gives, when it presumes to settle the momentous
question in an off-hand way, a specimen of which is given in your
number for May 12th.
The Times alleges that persons of disordered health are the most
subject to ■ so-called apparitions.” Doubtless they are, as it will be
my object to show; but that, in many cases, the “ so-called apparitions”
are rightly called apparitions, it is my object to show likewise. More¬
over, it is just because persons are weak that they do see apparitions
really, not apparently; and logically so; although bodily weakness is
by no means the rule, at any rate in the earlier exercise of, or subjection
to, mediumship.
Let us, for the sake of argument, assume the pre-existence of the
soul; that in the case of each one of us, for instance, the same soul,
formerly disincarnate, is still in existence, but now compassed by a body
of flesh; then it must follow, that anything which reduces the vitality
of this flesh, and checks its deadening and predominating effect and
influence over the soul, would, logically, leave the soul nearer to its
previous state, that is, more free to act and make use of its spiritual
functions, more fitted to enjoy the spiritual powers of sight and hearing,
&c., in its own spiritual way—in the way it formerly enjoyed them in its
pre-existent state, before being tied to the flesh.
If, then, we bear in mind that anything which dulls the vital energy
may, and probably will, quicken and give scope to the spiritual energy,
notably sleep, disease, or the use of certain drugs, which latter are often
taken to induce such a state—hashish, for instance, by the Zulus and
others, and opium by the Chinese—we must also see that the reason
why visions are so common just before death, is because the spirit is
nearing a state similar to or identical with its pre-existent state. The
carnal state is, then, on the ebb, and the spiritual on the flow; the flesh
is no longer subduing the spirit, the real self-hood, that which is our
true normal status; while the cause of hashish and opium so often pro¬
ducing visions that are disagreeable, not to say monstrous, may well be
because the low moral state which induces this indulgence, and which
state is for the most part vastly increased by the indulgence in such
narcotics, brings with it real ghostly experiences corresponding with the
spiritual state of the victim to the degraded habit. The above remark
is probably equally applicable to some of the effects of delirium tremens;
and, since we believe that some spirits are able to assume any form they
please, in order to express and to convey to others the idea applicable to
that form, so, when they find persons labouring under a weakness of
some sort that opens them up to become mediums, through whom these
spirits are able to manifest such appearances, we may naturally suppose
that persons suffering from the effects of pernicious drugs or alcohol
(having lost vitality thereby, but regained spiritual sensitiveness of a
certain order), get some of their old clairvoyant power back which they
possessed when spirits disincarnate, and really do see these forms which
sympathising or malicious spirits choose to place before them, but which
forms these persons would not see if they were in a healthy state. Much
that is put down as hallucination and phantasmagoria by a material
world is doubtless really the objective seeing of spirits, who probably
can so manipulate their fluidic bodies sometimes as to make them appear
to other spirits or clairvoyant mortals pretty much what the former
please. Certain conditions which may be called abnormal are, of course,
necessary for such experience during earth life, just as collodion rendered
sensitive in the usual way is made to catch a spirit photograph under
July 14, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
333
certain unusual conditions, which would never be the case unless these
unusual conditions were brought into play.
Again, the believer in pre-existence recognises that, in his own per¬
son, as a spirit before birth on earth, however elementary a spirit he
may have been in that previous state, yet that he must have been,
nevertheless, intelligent in some degree, before he was utterly lost to
the power of expressing any intelligence whatever, by being born into
the flesh as an infant. Why was this loss ? Because when born here
his carnal brain was on such an extremely low plane that his spirit was
entirely unable to exercise, through the medium of that elementary
brain, the intellect it possessed, and must have brought with it into the
world, or to manifest thereby any thought or intelligence whatever, for
thought can no more work through the crude qualities of an infant’s
brain than herculean labours can be performed by his limbs. For, on
earth, when under the incubus of the flesh, intelligence can only mani¬
fest itself through its sole agent, its single tool, the brain. Nay, under
the most favourable circumstances, it may take twenty or thirty years
of earth life—on the supposition of our pre-existence—before the brain
can be sufficiently matured to assimilate and appropriate the intelligence
the spirit itself really possessed before entering its prison-house, the
flesh. No wonder the memory of our pre-existence leaves us!
Further, assuming our pre-existence, let us take the case of the
lowest idiot. His spirit, solely on account of the malformation of his
material brain, can|never manifest its former intelligence, which it must,
as a spirit, have possessed in a pre-existent state, small though that
intelligence may have been, though it need by no means have been
small. The alleged spirit of a sleeping idiot, who could neither speak
nor reason, once told the members of the Spiritist Society of Paris, in
very good French, that it was suffering purgatory on earth, as an idiot,
for former perversion of intellect when not an idiot; and added that, on
account of not being able to manifest its intelligence through such a
miserable machine as its brain was, it felt like a bird tied by the leg.
We must not, however, put too much trust in the identity of spirits, nor
in what many of them may say. This much, nevertheless, we may
venture to assert, which is rather in favour of the vraisemblable of the
above tale told by a spirit, and which would be difficult to contradict;
it is this, that a good many spirits in the flesh here are tied by the leg,
more or less, both morally and physically, whether sleeping or awake,
and without being exactly idiots.
My object in this paper has been to express the idea that it is not a
man’s brain which educates his soul or spirit, and urges his intellectual
progress; but that it is his spirit, which has pre-existed, and which
manifests itself by the brain, and by that only, and according only to the
fitness of the material brain to assimilate the mental food given it by
the spirit; the spirit using the brain matter as its tool, the only tool by
which the spirit encompassed by matter can make itself understood by
other spirits here in the same material plight. And yet it must be
nevertheless evident that when the brain is sufficiently matured by age
or study to work up to the level of the intelligence of its previous exist¬
ence, then, naturally, after this, the intellect and brain may go on pro¬
gressing together inimitably, though, on the other hand, the progress,
though it is said to be sure, may be small indeed.
It is a pity, for the world’s sake, that the Times, through ignorance,
for once, of the subject it takes in hand, should be so misleading when
arguing upon the true assumption that persons of disordered health are
the most subject to apparitions. Mr. Morse, who does not argue false
on true premises, and who is one of those who, above others, has a
practical and theoretical knowledge of this question, and who, moreover,
has been especially privileged to enrich us with many truths, tells us
through your number of May 19th, that—“ To-day mediumship appears
to flourish amongst those whose organisations are lowest in vitality.”
But he looks forward to a future when it will be otherwise. And this
future seems devoutly to be wished, as it would necessarily bring with
it so many other changes for the better ; and it is a long lane that has
no turning, .for the weak have been in the ascendancy, as mediums,
already for a protracted time. To look only in one direction. We And
St. Paul, that powerful medium for divers sorts of manifestations, was
bodily weak; he is said to have been much crippled; perhaps his
mediumship may have been the cause, for he certainly underwent
some rude shocks in that calling. To go further back. The prophet
Daniel induced a weak state by fasting, the better to foster his medial
powers, while the strong physical medium, the patriarch Jacob, was
lamed, perhaps permanently, through wrestling with a spiritual power
which appears to have been a materialisation. M. A. (Cantab).
PRE-EXISTENCE.
Sm,—I am quite in accord with your correspondent C. C. M. when he
asserts, in your number of June 23rd, that the extracts I sent you from
Lord Garvagh’s Pilgrim in Scandinavia, “ can by no means be pressed
into the service of the reincarnationists,” though they may strengthen
their opinions. I also agree with him that they are certainly suggestive
of pre-existence, as Lord Garvagh thought, but also they may be
perhaps explained by the spirit wandering into far off regions while the
body sleeps, especially, as we learn from the above book, that the father
of the present lord spent much of his time in Scandinavia, and the
mind of the son, then a youth, sleeping or waking, might naturally have
turned in that direction. Supposing the cases quoted, those of seeing
places and hearing sounds for the first time under the impression of
having seen and heard them before, not to be explained under the last
category, they are best perhaps accounted for by the theory of pre-exist¬
ence, unless, indeed, we are prepared to dissent from the occultist, for
instance, and assume that the pre-existent spirit is unacquainted with
any part of our planet; is entirely without intelligence, and incapable
of scrutinising men’s actions, or troubling their speculations; proposi¬
tions which 0. C. M. would probably not be likely to assume, as a
member of the Theosophical Society, which he is, if I mistake not. Miss
A. Blackwell, the author of the first prize essay on Spiritualism, given
by the National Association, says in a note to her Mediums'1 Book,
p. 381: “ Underlying the merely secondary question of reincarnation in
this planet is the great primary question of the pre-existence of the
soul, and it is on this substratum of the subject that the unity or
plurality of our lives in flesh must eventually be decided.’’ The belief
in our pre-existence is certainly making headway at the present time,
though long ago, as Miss Blackwell reminds us, the spirit “ Estelle ”
asserted it through the mediumship of Miss Kate Fox.
The reincarnationist naturally believes that the antecedent experiences
of the seeing and hearing alluded to, might have been during the
sojourn of the spirit in the flesh, or while in a fluidic state, while the
occultist holds that the spirit cannot be twice incarnated on this planet,
although he holds that it can be, and is, reincarnated elsewhere, but
each time in a nobler degree. The above is all the difference that I can
see between the two—no great difference after all. Both believe equally
in “ the great primary question of the pre-existence of the soul.” The
rest is detail. I only wish I could bring myself to believe explicitly
with the occultist, for it certainly is the pleasantest method of getting
on in the universe that I have ever come across. Wherever the truth
may be, the discrepancies of spirits throw us entirely at sea on this
subject, as far as they are concerned.
The experience of C. Dickens seems to have been an isolated one, or
we should have heard more under this head from so voluminous a
writer; and we have no reason to suppose that Lord Garvagh’s experi¬
ence in this direction was of frequent recurrence. In this respect they
appear to have differed from C. C. M., as well as in the manner of their
experience. Swedenborg’s theory of correspondences might throw a
light upon this question, unless the personage in Peter Simple hit the
right nail, and was more fortunate in his theory of cycles than in his
system of phrenology. Or, who knows what tricks our own doubles or
unconscious cerebrations may be playing us in the matter ? Amidst all
our uncertainties, disillusionisms, and disappointments, one truth stands
out boldly, it is this: That which has happened once may always
happen again. Though not being a convert to the system of cycles
pointed out in Peter Simple, I am not so dogmatical as to assume that
it must, even in the question of incarnation. Scrutator.
OUT-DOOR MEETINGS IN BIRMINGHAM.
Sir,—After being driven from the parks by the police, we have had
some capital Spiritualistic meetings in the centre of Birmingham, near
the Priestley statue. Last Sunday night, especially, Mr. Harper held an
audience of from two to three hundred spell-bound for about an hour ;
they were perfectly anxious to hear the philosophy of Spiritualism ex¬
plained, and Mr. Harper did this in a manner intelligible to the meanest
capacity, so that at the conclusion numbers hung round him desiring to
know more, and to learn how they could investigate for themselves.
The tracts and old Mediums well distributed will tell their tale in time.
The one certain fact demonstrated at these meetings is that the people
can fully appreciate the rationale of our subject. We expect a good
harvest as the autumn comes on. Richard Groom.
166, St. Yincent-street, Birmingham.
“ART MAGIC.”
Sir,—Your correspondent, Mr. Morell Theobald, in a recent issue of
The Spiritualist, very justly says it behoves every one who wishes to
utter a protest against what is false, from being mixed up with what¬
ever grains of truth we may possess in connection with Spiritualism.
As an investigating Spiritualist and medium of some experience my¬
self, I also feel anxious that the wheat may be kept separate from the
tares as much as possible, therefore protest against any attempt in even
the slightest degree to mix them together.
The little knowledge we possess, and the few facts ascertained in the
new science called Spiritualism, are quite sufficient to urge men on to
new discoveries in this direction, without any of the “ ologies,”
“ isms,’’ superstitions, and nonsense that are always imposed upon all
new discoveries.
At any rate, Spiritualism has its share of superstition and nonsense
attached to it, the last addition being the new importation from America
entitled Art Magic. I have read this book from beginning to end, and
in my opinion it is nothing but a mass of antiquated rubbish, utterly
devoid of anything original in matter or thought. Almost all it con¬
tains I have read before at different places and times, for it seems to be
a collection of items from other writers and the different newspapers of
the world. Let anyone attempt to reach Spiritualism by studying this
book, and they will quickly develops into not a medium but a maniac.
John Rouse.
SPIRITUALISM IN LEIGH.
Sir,—In quoting the account of Dr. Monck’s seance here from the
Leigh Chronicle, you have omitted what, in my opinion, is one of the
most important paragraphs, in which the writer declares his conviction
in strong terms that Dr. Monck did not, and could not, produce any
of the phenomena, and that, if free, it would have been next to impos¬
sible for him to produce the complicated and simultaneous acts, and
that either a non-earthly power and non-earthly hands were the causes,
or Dr. Monck is a thousand times a better conjurer than Maskelyne
and Cooke, Anderson, Herr Dobler et hoc genus omne rolled into one.
Now, sir, in your last number of The Spiritualist, a correspondent, sign¬
ing himself “ S,” bears strong personal testimony in favour of the
absolute genineness of Dr. Monck’s mediumship. This is as it should
be; but the writer in the Leigh Chronicle, being a scientific non-
Spiritualist (well known here), his emphatic evidence as to his convic¬
tion that Dr. Monck could not produce the manifestations, even if free,
would help to weigh the scales with outsiders. Such valuable testimony
should be laid before your readers. It is as follows:—
334
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 14, 1876.
“ The object in writing this account not being to discuss the question,
but to describe a personal impression, it is sufficient to conclude this
attempt at describing the last development of local Spiritualism by
asserting the convictions that the writer has no evidence to prove that
the manifestations were tricks done by a clever conjuror : that one man,
even if free to wander about, could not have produced the complicated and
simultaneous acts; that, so far as man can speak, Dr. Monck, from the
time his hands were grasped, never left his seat, and that either a non-
earthly power and non-earthly hands were the causes, or Dr. Monck is
a thousand times a better conjuror than Maskelyne and Cooke, Ander¬
son, Herr Dobler et hoc genus omne rolled into one. The writer’s per¬
sonal conviction is that Dr. Monck did not produce the manifestations,
and that he could not if he wished do what the writer experienced. The
alternative conclusion is one that bolder men than the writer have not
presumed to accept, and the readers of the Chronicle must settle its
feasibility for themselves. It should be remembered, however, that the
writer is giving what he believes to be a true record of facts, and that
one man who sees a pickpocket commit a theft or a meteor fall from the
heavens, is worth more consideration than an army of men who have
seen neither.” George F. Furner.
Leigh.   
WHAT ARE WORKS ?
Sir,—Whilst accepting the Spiritualist protest against Dr. Watts’s
unfortunate assertion that “there’s no repentance in the grave, no
pardon offered to the dead,” I would suggest that Mr. Martheze
pushes his argument too far in judging the moral condition, immedi¬
ately past and present, of Fish, the murderer. The fallacy of his
reasoning consists in want of consideration of the meaning of the
word “works.”
Now, assuming (and we have no right to do otherwise) that the
man’s repentance of his crimes was deep and entire, and the aban¬
donment of his case to the mercy complete—the work he did must
have been great and of high quality; there was consciousness of
guilt, submission to punishment, teachableness, humility, to say nothing
of passing clouds of horror and remorse. The shortness of the time
given for such works is nothing, for time is no measurement of spirit
suffering, life, and action; and as by quality, not quantity, must our
faith be gauged, so also must our moral being. Apart, however, from
all this, though the criminal’s letter is rude and perchance prompted
by effort at self-deception and thought for the misery of his wife,
till we know what the Ordinary really said, we have no right to
assert that he was wrong in his teachings because the man he strove
to instruct repeated his lesson badly, still less to bring a sort of charge
of Antinomianism against the clergy in general. A. T. A.
10th July, 1876.
THE GREAT LAW OF LIVING NATURE.
Sir,—On January 1st, 1826, Sir Walter Scott made the following
entry in his journal:—“Walking into the plantation with Anne and
Anne Russell, a thought strikes me, alluding to this period of the year
[the bare trees, no doubt]. People say that the whole human frame,
in all its parts and divisions, is gradually in the act of decaying and
renewing. What a curious timepiece it would be that could indicate to
us the moment this gradual and insensible change had so completely
taken place, that no atom was left of the original person who had
existed at a certain period, but there existed in his stead another person,
having the same thews and sinews, the same face and lineaments, the
same consciousness; a new ship built on an old plank; a pair of trans¬
migrated stockings, like those of Sir John Cutler, all green, without one
thread of the original black silk left! Singular—to be at once another
and the same ! ” Thus what puzzled Scott fifty years ago the psycho¬
logists are all at sea about now.
One need not be surprised at the slow progress of philosophy, when
no one seems to be pursuing a right method, and it will be interesting
to many to know that the Novum Organum, the new method of philoso¬
phising of Lord Bacon, was simply the method he was accustomed to in
the proceedings of a court of law: that is to say, by examining all the
witnesses in any case; by questioning and cross-questioning those wit¬
nesses, and then comparing the whole evidence in a general summing
up, accepting this and excluding that, by way of arriving at a right
conclusion and a satisfactory result. Seeing this, I am not a little
surprised at a learned serjeant-at-law like Mr. Cox proceeding so
differently and in such an unlawyer-like fashion, as president of a psy¬
chological society. None of the other members present seemed to have
perceived the mistake. I mean in the matter of the retention of the
memories, notwithstanding the change of the entire physical man.
I say nothing of his starting with an hypothesis, because that is allow¬
able, notwithstanding Newton’s hypotheses non Jingo ; it is a method of
proceeding essential to some minds—rsuch, for instance, as in the case
of Kepler and Faraday—but these only held the hypothesis as a guide
to investigation, just as we find it in a court of law, or with the detec¬
tive policeman. Indeed, it is a natural course of the human mind, and
we cannot help forming some kind of d priori opinion, founded upon
the evidence at present before us.
Mr. Cox, in asking the question “ What am I ?” puts his witness—
man—into the box, and very fairly questions him and cross-questions
him, then comes to the conclusion that this retention of the memory is
only to be accounted for by a something within the man that does not
change like the body, and which is termed “ the soul,” yet leaving for¬
getfulness unexplained. But is this the method he pursues in a court of
law ? Not at all. He would demand that all the other witnesses con¬
cerned should be brought into court, or that all the collateral and
correlated evidence be taken; instead of which he is content with
his own witness—and a rather prejudiced one—and concluding what is
most satisfactory to his own mind, leaves the court. Now the question
he had to solve was not in respect to man only as a purely exceptional
| fi instance, but of life in general, for had he only questioned his horse and
| )| his dog he would have found that they retained their special natures,
, | u and habits, and memories, and instinct, and individualities, just as well
|; I as man, the change of substance having occurred in them exactly in the
1) j same way. If, again, he had referred to the vegetable world, he would
| | have found the same transfer of the particular nature and individuality
jil perpetually going on and on to the new matter, and would have come to
in an all-important and fundamental law of all living forms—in which is
I ! the true explanation and reply to his demand for information. In such
i H matters an explanation simply means the reference to a general rule, as
If when Newton having, by a reference to all the correlated facts concern-
i (i ing gravitation, inferred the rule, declared that he had no opinion in
II respect to the nature or reason of gravitation; it was enough that he
i < j had discovered the law which explained the nature of the tides, and the
III other phenomena included. As regards life, the rule I have pointed out
j j is equally general.
ij| This unphilosophical method of questioning isolated facts will never
iff do, and I may be allowed to say that my Letters to Miss Martineau were
| <i simply exemplifying the method of Bacon here pointed out, in reference
|{! to the study of man, and in which the transfer of qualities, mental or
| j otherwise, as a general- law of life, was explained; and I believe I am
| ( the only one who has explained it. It was originally suggested to me in
h my mesmeric experience, on finding a transfer of my own thoughts and
i) | feelings and memory to another person, and even in a measure the sense
!(! of identity; even by infecting or mesmerising a bit of leather, I found
nj that a clairvoyant in a distant place could, through it, read over my
j) i whole nature and thoughts of the time when operating on it. I per*
i u formed cures in that way, as, I think, Dr. Monek is now doing. Such
m being the case, I could of course see no difficulty in the transfer of
I qualities to the new matter within the same body, and to the infecting of
K the germ with all the capability of developing into a similar nature; and
jj! when lastly I came to the vegetable world, I found wonders of the same
Jj nature, on precisely the same principle, everywhere; even the old oak
i) | tree really becoming another tree each spring, though possessing the
j>i character of age, that is, all the live portion of it, the new matter taking
] (I on the same nature as before ; but if you ask why, I cannot tell you,
i j nor will I guess. There are some matters, says Bacon, on which we are
j) | not even wise enough to guess wisely, and I recall Newton’s admonition,
II “Physics, beware of metaphysics.” One of the most remarkable in-
||| stances of the transfer of memory, was that of the Swiss historian and
I philosopher, Zschokke, who tells us how, in the presence of a stranger,
| ( j he would often become possessed at once with his whole life and history.
I | If Mr. Cox was to reply that it might be a transfer from soul to soul, I
i j I have a right to require his proof, or he is merely playing with his fancy,
| | and begging the question, and I am ready to fall back on the general
| j law of all living forms, showing that the case with man is not excep-
Iji tional, and that he might just as well explain gravitation by supposing
i (I a big loadstone in the centre of the earth, and might refer to the magical
! | transference in regard to materialised spirit forms, but space will mot
|(| admit of further illustration. Henry G. Atkinson.
!)! Boulogne-sur-Mer.
j | SPIRIT IDENTITY.
j|i Sir,—Some time since, I went unannounced to Mr. Thomas Brown,
|)| of Howden-le-Wear, who is developing as a test medium, in the expec-
j | tation of having a private seance with him. In this I was not disap-
I! pointed, for he kindly agreed to give me one. The control commenced
j by furnishing a brief but truthM sketch of my life; after which he
| described a female relative who had passed away about sixteen years
ago, and a brother of the same name as myself, who had passed away,
because of some affection of the heart, when an infant. I was not aware
! of this at the time, but I subsequently ascertained it to be correct. He
i next informed me that my brother John, who has recently passed to
j spirit life, would establish his identity. He told me of a certain busi¬
ness speculation proposed to me by him, which I objected to. The
I details being of a private nature, I cannot particularise here, but suffice
it to say, this transaction was confined to the knowledge of our own
| family circle alone, and could certainly not have been known to the
i medium.
| I then asked if he could remember a certain conversation we had,
| shortly before his transition, and what he had said. His reply was
I perfectly correct. - Some other questions were asked him about matters
| of which the medium was entirely ignorant, and I may briefly state
that he established his identity beyond the slightest shadow of a doubt.
I have now investigated Spiritualism for upwards of four years, and
have witnessed almost every phase of physical phenomena, but have
hitherto never received such demonstration of a future existence as I
have through this medium. C. G. Oyston.
iHunwick, Willington, Durham,
THE EDUCATION OF THE CHILDREN OF SPIRITUALISTS.
j Sir,—My time at present is so much shorter than usual on account
of the forthcoming concert, that if you will allow me I will put off till
after the 19th replying, except very shortly, to Miss Kislingbury’s
| letter in your July 7 number. As my work is a work of time,
twenty years and more must elapse before I myself can have any proof
j of the theories which I am putting into practice, I can only speak from
j conviction and not from facts : for, till I have gained the funds which
will enable me to keep fifty children, educate them entirely myself, and
be relieved from the continued harassing opposition I meet with at
every step, and with which my efforts have been met by the press ever
since I began to sing in public for the purpose of earning wherewithal
j to keep this number of children, I myself cannot imagine what extra¬
ordinary benefit children may derive from my contact. One most
striking proof of my “ calling ” in the eyes of good Spiritualists will be
! this one. I last year asked a well-known Bibliomancer to find a text for
July 14, 1876.
835
THE SPIRITUALIST.
me, and the first one he touched was,<£ Suffer the little children to come
unto Me." I do, therefore, pray any one who reads what I say on
the subject of education to believe that I feel convinced that I teach by
some mysterious agency, and that I do not feel as if it were I myself
who did it at all. If teaching can be qualified as mediumship, I believe
I must be a teaching medium, and that I shall be able to “ pass it on ”
to my children, who will in their turn t; pass it on,” spread it, and
cause teachers to become and to be considered of more value than any
other members of society, instead of being, as they are at present, the
most dependent, hard-worked, and under-paid. A little girl (two
years and five months old) in our Home, teaches a baby (seventeen
months old), and so on.
For my part, I do not see how human nature can improve unless
nurses are very superior. My belief is that the nurses of the present
day, though they may know how to read and write better, and may be
more “ genteel ” than nurses were a hundred or fifty years ago, are not
to be compared in sterling worth to what even I can remember of
servants thirty and more years ago.
The grossest ignorance produces, I believe, a healthier state than
that which the superficial education indulged in, now-a-days, gives to
every class of society. Georgina Weldon.
Tavistock House, Tavistock-square, W., July 7th, 1876.
TWO QUESTIONS.
Sir,—Will you, or any of your readers kindly give me a scientific
description of the means by which a “ rap ” is produced ] Also, has
it been clearly ascertained, and explained minutely, by what method a
disembodied spirit’s life is sustained from day to day 1 I have seen
and read a good deal on the subject of spiritual phenomena, but am
quite ignorant on these two points, I am sorry to say.
J. Hawkins Simpson.
July 10th. — ... .
. SPECTRES OP ANIMALS.
Sir,—I had a pug I was exceedingly attached to. He was a friend
and companion to me, and I was his slave. He lived to be very old.
He died last year. A fortnight after his death one of my pupils, about
fifteen years of age, and the nurse, both distinctly saw him walking to¬
wards his grave as they were about to take a turn round the garden
about seven o’clock in the evening. This was at the beginning of
September, so it was barely dusk. I always had felt that dear dog
had a soul. Georgina Weldon.
Tavistock House, July 10th.
CLAIRVOYANT VISIONS OF ASSASSINATIONS IN TURKEY—ARE THEY
TRUSTWORTHY ?
Sir,—I desire to thank you for publishing my letter of the 15th
inst.; also to inform you of some further asserted revelations, through
the clairvoyant mediumship of Miss Nicoli, in regard to the death of
the Sultan.
On the night of Friday, the 16th inst., we had another stance. The
medium announced the presence of a large band of spirits, in Eastern
costume, and after the lapse of a few minutes a room began to form
before her eyes; this she afterwards described very minutely. A
curtain of blue, silk stretched across the centre, divided it into two
parts ; the curtain had an opening in the middle, through which there
entered a man, apparently between thirty and forty years of age; he
took a seat cross-legged on a lounge, and clapped his hands. Another
form entered and knelt before him, seemingly receiving some orders.
The latter left the room again, but quickly re-appeared with some
wearing apparel. They next both left the room, but the first men¬
tioned soon re-appeared in fresh attire, which was described as follows :
White tunic, scarlet knickerbockers, and sash of same colour ; also a
turban on his head. He again clapped his hands, and another person
entered, whom the medium instantly recognised as the assassin, seen in
her last vision; he bowed and knelt before the other, and afterwards
sat down. The other seemed to converse with him, and gave him a
dagger, pistol, and pair of scissors, also a cup, and a package which
contained some powdery ingredient. After receiving the above, he sat
resting his head on his hand, and seemed in a deep study. Presently
the second man went to a drawer in the room, and taking a bag there¬
from, brought it and exhibited its contents to the person to whom he
gave the weapons. The bag was described as containing gold coins
and precious stones. After looking reluctantly at it he rose from his
seat, and, stamping his foot on the flooi’, he left the room with the
weapons in his possession.
Miss Nicoll next described the first mentioned form as walking about
the room quickly, rubbing his hands, and his eyes glaring fiercely.
Turning her head from the scene, she said that bis looks were unbear¬
able. The scene now faded away, and the vision recorded in my last
letter was repeated exactly as before. At the conclusion the medium
was controlled so roughly, that it required the united strength of two
members of the circle to hold her, and she was unable to stand after
being disentranced.
We had another sitting on Sunday, the 18th, at 10.30 a.m., when
the medium had a vision of the assassination of the Turkish ministers,
an account of which appeared in the papers on the previous day. A
room was described, in which sat a number of men, and on an elevated
seat in one part of the room, above all the rest, sat the person who
gave the weapons to the assassin in the former visions.
After a few seconds of time had elapsed, the room was entered
suddenly by a man in uniform, pistol in hand. He fired at the man
on the elevated seat, who dropped down to the floor ; a rush was then
made to seize the soldier, who fired at several more, some of whom
fell down. Finally the scene vanished, amidst what was described as
smoke and confusion.
As to the trustworthiness of the visions recorded, I think the proof
will all depend upon the revelations made from official sources hereafter.
However, I can vouch for the truthfulness and honesty of Miss Nicoll,
and the rest of the family, who are well-known to the Spiritualists of
Newcastle. Were it not for lack of time and space, I might have
written at greater length, as everything was described in the most
minute detail, including the furniture in the rooms, the colours and
dresses of the forms seen. I might add that not one in the circle knew
anything of the clapping of hands as a mode of summoning attendants,
which, I have ascertained since, is quite common in the East. I can
also testify to having had tests of spirit identity through her
clairvoyant mediumship, which were quite as wonderful as any on
record, and which, I hope, will be published at an early date.
W. Bowman.
49, Pine-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne, June 26, 1876.
ORGANISATION AMONG SPIRITUALISTS.
BY J. M. PEEBLES.
u Ignobile Vulgus /”—-the mob and the rabble of un¬
civilised lands, as well as the disorderly denizens of the
| lower spirit spheres, naturally oppose order, system, culture,
| and every possible form of organised effort. Upon public
I i ■ occasions in the past there has usually been a class of u irre-
[ | pressibles,” burdened with great missions, jvhose leading
II purpose seemed to be: a Rule or Ruin.” Without the
11 faintest conception of modesty or the fitness of things, they
j I flashed, flamed, and then went out in darkness. Pity, and
) | pass on—remembering that even hatchling individualisms
j have their uses.
Among the terms recently used by a writer, in descanting
j against the evils of local and all other organisations, are
| these: u Hackneyed,” u trite,” a worn-out,” “ persecution!”
| Neither assertions nor conceit are arguments. Socrates was
j wiser than his fellow Athenians, in that he knew he did not
!: know—and confessing it, was sensible enough to listen to
his peers.
But “ organisations have been used for selfish ends and
abuses.” Granted—and so have fires and garments, in-
| tellects and governments. And because fires have burned
I cities, shall we eat our food uncooked ? Because garments
! have chafed the epidermis and compressed the chest, shall
we ignore them, and go as naked as the Malayan natives ?
Shall we pronounce against colleges because I)r. Webster,
j of Boston, and other chemists have committed murders?
Because of abuses, shall governments and the inhabitants of
the nations return to a barbarian, Ishmaelitish individualism,
i wielding the club and battle-axe? It is idle to waste words
| upon those who cannot—or mil not—discriminate between
i legitimate use and abuse.
Conscious of the tyranny too often connected with an
| intensified individualism, it is clear that organisation upon
| the platform of broad, intelligent principles becomes both
i an advanced state of society and the deep religious convic-
! tions of the soul. The previous failures among Spiritualists
j have been but useful lessons. The fallen child in getting up
I gathers strength and wisdom.
To better the world, our neighbours and ourselves indi-
I vidually—to elicit truth and establish justice and charity—
| to enlarge the sphere of knowledge and science—to lengthen
i the golden chains of friendship, stimulate religious effort,
| and encourage purity of life—to become mutual helps and
| to set examples before mankind worthy of their following—
| to establish closer and more intimate relations between this
n! and the more heavenly spheres of existence—these are among
j j the aims sought in organisation. Are they not commend-
l | able? Who can reasonably object to methods tending to the
i j | actualisation of such purposes ?
| I Upon general principles I should have no objection to
I | subscribing to a sensible creed, providing the last clause
I j read thus—“goodfor this day only.” But fixed creeds that
| | cramp the intellect and check the soul’s growth are to be
| | rigidly avoided; they belong to the blindness of the past,
| l rather than the genius of the present. Laggards in the
| | race, those who have not outgrown the sentiments of sec-
! | tarian theology, with its shrunk and shrivelling influences,
! | have naturally enough no desire for higher principles, or for
I | a new and more catholic organisation. If these classes are
| | excluded from its moral benefits, it is their own narrowness
m that excludes them—not ours.—Banner of Light.
336 THE SPIKITUALIST. July 14, 1876.
HARRIET MARTINEAU’S RELATIONSHIP TO |
SPIRITUALISM. sL: !:
BY HENRY G-. ATKINSON, F.G.S. ' i]
Will you allow me to correct the statement about Miss |
Martineau having made u great use of mesmerism during j j
the last twenty years of her life.” Perhaps you know that j<
I was the medium, so to speak, of her cure in a former ill- j ]
ness when given up by her physician. (You may see the jj
matter referred to in Mr. Cox’s W/iat Am I?) In her last j<
illness, which began more than twenty years back, I advised j j
her not to try mesmerism, because it was a case of excessive j j
feebleness of the heart, and accompanied with fits of insen- | (
sibility, under which circumstances mesmerism might have |
been a dangerous experiment, and would not have cured her, j
especially at her advanced age. But I can assure you that j
she took a lively interest in all I told her about Spiritualism, !
believing with me that whatever the causes might prove, to jj
be the facts must be of the most profound importance to a j
science of man, and that professors of physiology and |
philosophers should ignore them seems to me a kind of jj
insanity or blind stupidity from preconceived notions.
When mesmerised, Miss Martineau never quite lost con- j
sciousness, bul would begin, what I used to call her u preach- j
ments,” something very similar to what we read of now as in- I
spirational addresses. She had a remarkable dream or vision 1
repeated every time she was put into the mesmeric state; the j |
dream was about her own death, how it would occur, where, j
and of the persons present. She was quite angry with me j
for trying to persuade her that it was nothing but a mere jj
dream, and I need hardly say that the circumstances of her j
illness and death were in all respects unlike her dream. That j
the dream was repeated, and her strong impression of its jj
reality as prevision, were remarkable. I remember, before j
Spiritualism was talked of, her reading me a letter from a n
friend in Paris, relating how, on certain occasions, flowers ||
and other objects would fall, as it seemed, from the ceiling, j
and in the daylight. I do not recall the exact circumstances !
under which the phenomena occurred, but should think there jj
must be some record of such an astounding fact. That Miss jc
Martineau did not go more deeply into Spiritualism was from j
her age and illness; she was constantly suffering, and expect-
ing death. When expressing her interest in the matter on !
one occasion she said, “ But I am too old, and much too ill, j
to begin a new subject,” ©r you may be sure she would have j
joined our old friend, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, in her in- j
vestigations. j
Miss Martineau was too truthful, and too much a lover of j
truth, and too desirous of progress, to have had any preju-
dices concerning Spiritualism, to have rejected any oppor- j
tunity of enlightenment. We are but poor things at our j
best, and the facts of Spiritualism came to my suffering j
friend at her worst, and when confined to the house for that I
long weary twenty-two years. j
Boulogne-sur-Mer, July 10th, 1876. - i(
MR. E. W. WALLIS’S MEDIUMSHIP.
The trance mediumship of Mr. E. W. Wallis is of a remarkable
order ; while he is under influence the spirits who speak through him
display unusual intellectual and philosophical power, and speak ably
on religious subjects to the general satisfaction of critical audiences.
Some of them give their former names and addresses, with details of
their lives on earth; these narratives, of course, are open to after
investigation by the listeners. Mr. Wallis is sometimes made to speak
or sing in what are asserted to be languages of savages, and altogether
his mediumship is of an interesting nature. He will give a seance
this (Fiiday) evening, at Mrs. Burke’s, 8, Upper Bedford Place,
Russell Square. Further particulars will be found in our advertise¬
ment pages.
The Research Committee of the National Association of Spiritualists
will hold a second test seance on Friday next, with Miss Lottie Fowler,
medium, at 38, Great Russell-street, London.
Miss Kislingbury, the Secretary to the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, will spend a few days in Paris during the month of August,
and will visit the principal Spiritualists residing there.
Testimonial to Andrew Jackson Davis.—Mr. J. N. T. Martheze
asks us to announce that he thinks that steps should be taken in
this country to support the testimonial.to the great American social
reformer and medium, Andrew Jackson Davis, and that he would
willingly be one of a committee formed for that purpose.
ORGANISATION AMONG SPIRITUALISTS IN AMERICA.
Every now and then the problem of organising is raised
among American Spiritualists, and the sooner they set to
work to unite, the better. At the present time, although it
is easy for Spiritualists in the various nations of Europe to
act inQ concert, because of the ease with which they can
communicate with each other through their representative
officers, in America no union of the kind exists. Spiritualists
there have no national library to which authors in Europe
can present their works, and they possess no representative
body with whom Spiritualists in Europe can communicate.
In consequence of this want of union, the movement there is
weak, both in matters of offence and in matters of defence,
nor could American Spiritualists be efficiently united in any
sudden emergency, for experience in England has proved
that organising is hard, up-hill work, a w’ork also of time.
Successful organisation in America will depend very much
upon starting with a -good nucleus, with a central body con¬
sisting of a few men of considerable intellectual power, and
of world-wide respect. For instance, if Mr. Epes Sargent,
Dr. Eugene Crowell, and Mr. Robert Dale Owen were to
collect together some three or four friends each, whom
they believe to be good representative men, and if an
organisation began to grow outwards from a dozen such
individuals, it would be likely to last. Although at the
outset it would be small, its opinions would carry great
weight, and there would be little or no tendency to disrup¬
tion, it being a proved fact that good organisation is a
function of culture and of good education, of an advanced
stage of civilisation, and of society. Good organisation is
not the mere herding together of great masses of people .; it
is rather the construction of an efficient engine to do special
work—of an engine which might even be hampered in its
operations in some cases by increase of size, rather than
strengthened. If people with good intentions, but with
feeble intellectual power, were to band together in America
to form an organisation, it would be weak at the core; it
would either fall to pieces from internal dissension, or, as it
grew, there would be inharmony at the fountain head, as
persons of a superior order gradually supplanted, in the
ordinary course of nature, their less intelligent predecessors.
Successful organisation, then, depends very much upon be¬
ginning with a good nucleus, for which reason the first
Council, consisting of such men as we have mentioned,
should be self-elected, but, at the end of the first year,
should go out of office, and submit itself to the votes of the
rank and file of the body, be they few or many.
.In Europe it would be felt to be a convenient thing,
even if not more than two dozen American Spiritualists
banded together, with whom their brethren on this side of
the Atlantic could enter into communication. Theological
subjects should be most rigorously avoided, and the chairman
ought to put down the first man or woman who attempts to
introduce them ; for once let them become matters of deli¬
beration in the Council, they will prove a source of violent
inharmony, and perhaps wreck the little ship at the outset
of her voyage. In this respect the organisation proposed a
few weeks ago in America is at fault. It has imported the
words ^ Christian Spiritualists ” into its title, the result of
which of course is that controversy on theological subjects
has begun at once. The error having been made, the striking
out of the word u Christian ” will now naturally give
offence to some of the more orthodox supporters of the
scheme, consequently some of them will be unwise enough
not to work with their brethren after the present title is
amended; whereas, had the adjective never been inserted,
there would have been no warm feeling or contention.
Unless the first Council of a national organisation of
American Spiritualists includes the names of a few writers
and workers who are well known and trusted on this side of
the Atlantic, it will be a long time before confidence in it
springs up among European Spiritualists.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Y. J.—Dr. Slade is not due in St. Petersburg, till the end of October. We
know nothing of the movements of the other medium you ask about.
July 14, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
ui
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Kepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s Views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
footfalls on the boundary of another
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, 8by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains at masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,’.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, hut
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritnal-
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpubhshed, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents : The
Anti-Supernaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and [Science; the Spirit' and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church And the Spirit. 12mo„
600 pp. Cloth 10s. ed.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals [were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinidh that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume..
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of aUtrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
ef his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s, Ocl,; cheap edition,
7s, od, ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. Thisl like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 8d.
NATTY, K SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM..MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. -
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d. ’
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one),6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE i OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO. WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Bev. Canon
Callaway. M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: E LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Fiammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) Ids)
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences, (Pub, at 7s. fid.) 4s.,
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer,”
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. ,, lit, ,, • «
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , .
The Thinker. „ V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ol A. J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest ...
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil . . .
Harbinger of Health , . . . .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . .
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
15 0
7
6
6
7 6
7 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
2 6
3 6
3 0
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 6
3 6
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
24 0
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ....
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . • . 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A^ Trim Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by Jonn Fiske, M.A. . 10 C
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . ..20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown;
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . • 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A. . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . • 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , . 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1 Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each,
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard,
ed.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE _OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox, Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. 6d.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock, 2s.
IV
THE SPIEITUALIST,
July 14, 1876.
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 88, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s. fid., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrajed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: COLBY and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
IO H.S.A. The most faithful and impartial exponent of
Spiritualism in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers from the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence. -
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices, 18, Exchsnge-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Bussell-street,
London, W.C.
Price 5s.
IRELAND: UR OF THE CHALDEES.
London: Triibner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Reviewers’ Criticisms.
“Irishmen ought to read this work and be proud. It is
crammed with learning which does credit to the research of
the writer.’’—Christian World.
“The somewhat startling proposition contained in the title
of this work can hardly fail to interest a considerable number
of readeis, and for those who maybe inclined to take the work
in hand, we may briefly state that the line of argument pur¬
sued is intended to show that the Chaldeans, the Hebrews,
and the Celts are identical, the summary given at the close
being that ‘ the Arphaxadite Chaldeans were the progenitors
of the Hebrew Chaldeans, and differ only in name from the
first Gaels.’ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amountof corrobora¬
tive eviderce is adducedin support of them, the value of which
many will be glad to test.”—Rock.
. Published at 7s. fid. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Fails, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
cr a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. fid. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist N ewspaper Branch Office.
Q PI RITUAL ISM; ITS CAUSES AND
io EFFECTS, by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. A review
< f this pamphlet appeared in the March number of The
Spiritual Magazine of this year. May • be had of W. H.
Larrison, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O. Price
fid., post free, 7d.
NNALT DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA;
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
ti the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Eogino, No. 28.
THE HOME FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PI,ACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Tpiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
vuthiut the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
ginerous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Home, on tbe principle of a private,
Boarding House. It is conveniently located for the principal
railways, and is in the very area of the spiritual movement.
It< arrangements have been designed with a special view to
the requirements of Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance
Makacer—Mrs. a. c, Burke.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Herts.
Sir Charles Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
William Howitt, Eeq., Rome, Italy,
S. O. Hall, Esq., F.S.A, 60, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-equare, South Kensington
Charles Blackburn. Esq., Didsbury. Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-fields.
A. A. Watts, Esq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hill, W
S. Chinnery, Esq., 142, Strand, London, W.O.
J. Enmore Jones, Esq., Eomore-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland, Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq., Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Cornelius Pearson, Esq., 15, Harper-street, Bloomsbury.
William Tebb, Esq., 7, Albert-road, (Jloueester-gate, Regent’s-
park.
A. Leighton, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
James Wason, Esq., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Thomas Hayle, Esq., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Thomas Shorter, Esq.. 23, Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixon, Esq., M.D.. 8 Great Ormond-street, W.C.
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
W. <j. Copperthwaite, Esq., Malton, Yorkshire.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C.
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, Yorb-place, Portman-square
John Lament, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thomas Slater, Esq.i 19, Leamington-road-villas, Westboume-
park.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq., 4, Castledine road, Anerly, S.E
W. J. Williams, Esq., Clarence Club, Waterloo-place, S.W.
Epes Sargent, Esq, Boston, U.S.A.
Subscriptions, which will be duly acknowledged, may be
forwarded to the Bon. Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq , 1,
Hereford-square, South Kensington, S,W.; or to the Hon
Sec., A. Joy, Esq., 69, Great Russell-street, W.C.
The follotoing sums have keen already subscribed:—
Charles Blackburn, Eso  £50 0 0
A. V. H i  80 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Eeq. ;   ;.... 25 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq.     25 0 0
William Tebb, Esq.' ;     25 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq    25 0 0
W. M. Wilkinson, Esq.   20 0 0
O. y. Hoffmann         20 0 0
James Wason, Esq  20 0 0
Friends at St. Petersburg  *   j   19 7 6
Friends at Glasgow, per H. Nisbet, Esq. .10 16 0
Thomas Grant, Esq      10 10 0
A Friend         10 10 0
Mrs. St. Claire  .'....  10 0 0
W. J. Williams, Esq.  i   .'  10 0 0
Two Friends and Neighbours   10 0 0
W. C. Ooppertbwaite, Esq    10 0 0
G. N, Strawbridge, Esq    10 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq   :  10 0 0
J. Ridley, Esq     1  10 0 0
Mrs.Hamilton.....'    10 0 0
Mrs. Daun     10 0 0
T. J. Allman, Esq.........    10 0 0
Mrs. Hennings  ■      5 6 0
Mrs. Berry ....'.         5 5 0
J. Y. Vernon, Esq     5 6 0
W. H. Harrison, Esq.   5 0 0
C. Townsend Hook, Esq ' 5 0 0
William Howitt, Esq. ..„  5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq  5 0 0
A. A. Watts, Esq.'  .'.  5 0 0
Mrs. Watts       5 0 0
Walter Weldon, Esq      5 0 0
P. G        5 0 0
M. G. S    5 0 0
C. F. Varley, Esq     '.   5 0 0
J. H. D        5 0 0
F. Griffin, Esq      5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart      5 0 0
J. S.Law, Esq.     500
Friend, per Mrs. Vernon.....    3 3 0
G. de Liagre      3 3 0
C. Pearson, Esq.;,      3 3 0
Miss Clark      3 0 0
S. O. Hall, Esq    2 2 0
John Marshall, Esq  2 2 0
C. Stephens, Esq.     2 2 0
Dr. R. Baikie         2 2 0
F  2 2 0
Rev. W. Whitear     2 2 0
Miss Whitear   220
Thomas Scott, Esq     220
D. G. Fitzgerald, Esq    2 2 0
Miss Watts  ;        2 2 0
T. Skinner, Esq., M.D •    2 2 0
L. J    2 2 0
T. Shorter, Esq     2 0 0
M. De Veh  |  2 0 0
John Lament, Esq.    2 0 0
C. McLean, Esq  2 0 0
Miss Douglas  2 0 0
J. Hare, Esq, and Friends  2 0 0
Rev. J. Manners      2 0 0
R.B I      110
D. H. W         110
A. Glendinning, Esq   '.  110
W. Glynes; Esq      110
J. T. Peele, Esq      110
Dr. C. L. Robertson ;  110
Mrs. S. Dickson     110
Regnum  1  110
Friend, per T. Hayle, Esq  110
F. A. Binney, Esq.       110
w. w   ;    iio
J. Swinburne, Esq ;    110
J. Gledstanes, Esq    10 0
Mrs. M. Gregory        10 0
Dr. Hayle       10 0
O. P. Carter, Esq '.     10 0
Mrs. Wiseman  ;   10 0
A. R. Wallace, Esq    10 0
J. C. Eno, Esq.        10 0
Col. H. S. Olcott     I    10 0
Baronin V. Vay    0 18 4
O. Parsons, Esq.    HI  0 10 6
C. O. G   ;...... ;  0 10 0
P. S.Y. ffftttvmttttnfHtttVMtttHttntMtHtMttMMIIftHM . 0 0
PRIMITIYE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modem Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV, —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience.
VI.—Dreams and Visions
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VI11.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Contentions.
X.—Prayer.
XI.—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII. —The Spirit-World.
XIV. —Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVL—Conclusion.
The above work has just been issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s. 6d. each, post free 11s. 6d., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
By Royal Belters Patent.
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.;. or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kaedec. • Translated by ANNA
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.
TT> EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psycho-
J-V* logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7. Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
The religio-philosophical
JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an I
able exponent of Modern Spiritualism. Established in 1865.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Religio-Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robebt Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usuallv torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London ; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wedieeday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addx-essed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “The Spiritualist ’ will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s 10d.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C.   
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. ALLEN, Avo
Maria-lane, London, E.C,
