EbStstbred i.'i A NflWSPAPflii.
Vj>-
S>ff) joiJ^K®i<
#l^gt Jtttospapr mmmki) 3|3.tulnaltsm xu <3.rmi ^vxtmr.
THE “SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 218.—(VOL. IX.—No. 13.) LONDON: FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
gTontenta.
The Rapid Evolution of Spiritual Phenomena  145
Original Researches in Psychology. By T. P. Barkas,
F.G.S.:—Introductory—Researches in Psychology-
First Seance—Who are the Controls ?—Individuality of
the Controls—Is it Hallucination?—A New Work on
Psychology—Mode of Conducting the Seances—Are
the Questions Easily Answered?—Harmonics—Vital
Acoustics—Interference—Harmony—The Future Life 146
Legal Points connected with the Slade Case 147
The Slade Prosecution 148
A Seance with Dr. Slade  150
How Psycho is Worked    .' 150
Approaching Investigation of Spiritual Phenomena by Dr.
Carpenter and Others 150
Passed to Spirit Life  151
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances;—How a Medium was Freed from
Bonds...  ’ ... ’ 151
Poetry:—A Deserter  151
Spiritualism in Liverpool   ...    ... 156
Paragraphs;—Mr. J, J. Morse in the North, 145; A Seance
at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s, 147 ; The Unpardonable
Sin, 151; Mysticism, 166; Will their (spirits be
United? 156; Apostate Mediums in America, 156;
The_Arthurian Apple      ... 156
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
HTHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
J- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
LeuchtenbergV; Mr. H. G. Atkinson. F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr, George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Caldef, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia) ; Mr. Epes Sargent! (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Itoss -Church (Florence Mavryat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria)’; Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.j;
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mi-. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg’); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unoi’thodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.8.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. II. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N." T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United*'States): Mr. W. JJhdesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and>gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in (the United Kingdom; lQs.UQ,d.
To residents in the United States, y dels. 17 cents per annum, which
may he paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomeix-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spikitualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.
Cjis Sgmtalist IJ-etoapp-ex;,
Established in 1869.'
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, arid
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial lettersl’or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisement si Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ”, is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of-
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read) but
preserved for-binding. - . * . *
All communications for the Advertising .Department of this,
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street,'
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wedcef day
morning. All communications for the Literary Department'should
be addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 11,’Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.C.
(Entrance iii Woburn Street.)
Agenda for November, 1876.
Wednesday, 1st.—Soiree at 38, Great Russell Street, at
6.30 p.m. Music, Conversation and Refresh¬
ments. Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is. *
Friday, Zrd.—Seance Committee at 6 p m.
„ Experimental Research Committe, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 6ft.—Discussion Meeting at 7.30 p.m. Admis¬
sion free to members and friends.
Friday, 10ft.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Tuesday, 14ft.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ • Council Meeting at 6 30 p.m.
Wednesday, 15ft.—Mr.. Blackburn’s Seance, Mr. Williams,
medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Friday, 17ft.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 20ft.—House and Offlees Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ ' Soiree Committee at 6.30 p.m.
„ Discussion Meeting at 7.30 p.m.
Thursday, 23rd.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, Mr. W. EgHnton,
medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Friday, Zlth.—Library Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Experimental Research Committee, at 6.39
p.m.
Thursday, 30ft.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance. Mr, W. Eglinton,
medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances are free to inquirers, who must be
recommended by a fnember, or apply personally to the Secre¬
tary. As there is a great demand for tickets, and the numbers
are strictly limited, it is necessary to apply some time in
advance.  V ■ • / ^  
PRIZE ESSAYS OP THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £20; the second of £10, for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Society.”
The conditions were that the competition should be open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist and F.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom de plume of
M. A., Oxon.; Mr. J. M; Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent in, the two which have been printed were
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; but
the'Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publication, holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of the writers. •
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course- of •
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
Can he ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Bussell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. Price Is. l^d.,-post free.
| NEWCASTLE SPIRITUALISTS’ SOCIETY.
LECTURES—OCTOBER, 1876.
Mr. J. Ji Morse— ;
"The Greater Human,’’ Sunday. Oct. 1, at 7 p.m.
“ How does the Soul become Individualised? ” Monday,
Oct. 2, at 7.80 p.m.
Mr. John Hare-^
“ The Coming Time and the Coming Man,” Sunday,
Oct. 8, at 7-p.m.
Mr. Thomas Pattison—
''“Swe'denborg’s*Heaven and Hell ” (continuation of
previous lecture), Sunday, Oct. 15, at,7 p.m.
:MiSS H. LONGBOTTOM,'(of Halifax)—
j , . “ Who Does it All, and How is it Done ?’’ Wednesday,
Oct. 18, at 7.30-p.m.
“Salvation according to Spiritualism," Oct. 22, at 3.
p.m.
“ God the same yesterday,-to-day, and for ever,i!--
Sunday, Oct. 22, at, 7 p.m. • j
>Mr. John Walton— . „ * *
'• ‘‘The Lessons of Spiritualism," Sunday, Oct., 26, at 7
p.tn..
Admission free. A collection to defray expenses.
TO PUBLISE&RS’tASSISTANTS.—Wanted,!
An intelligent ASSISTAN T^aged about 15, experienced I
)in publishing work,-’and quick at'accoums. Apply, stating.
| terms, and in own hRfidwritingrtb WjH. Harrison, 88,! Greatf
Russell-street, London,%W*C.i &
ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS
MONIAL FUND.
TESTI-
E N GLI8H
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
H. Collen, Esq,
Andrew Glendinning, Esq.
Committee.
William H. Harrison, Esq.
Sir Charles Isham. Bart.
Henry D. Jencken, E'q., M.R.T,
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Dr. George Sexton.
William Tebb, Esq.
Honorary Treasurer:
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq., 20, Palmeira-square, Brighton,
Honorary Secretary:
Mr. Thomas Blyton, 72, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
List of Contributors to 3rd October, 1876.
£ s. d.
O. B., per Benjamin Coleman (forwarded direct
to Mr. Green)  50 0
J. N. T. Martheze       25 0
Charles Blackburn   20 0
William Tebb  1  10 10
“Nioodemus”..,   10 10
Thomas Grant   10 10
Countess of Caithness   10 10
Alexander Caller
P. R. Harrison    3
Mrs. Catherine Berry    2
N. Fabyan Dawe       2
James Bowman   2
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  1
Miss Ponder  1
S. C. Hall, F.S.A.
W. R. T    1
H. Collen  1
R. Glendinning     1
William H. Harrison   1
Thomas Blyton    1
A. Cl Swinton  1
John Lamont      1
Miss Kislingbury
T.S.
0
3
2
2
0
1
1
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0 10
0 10
Augustus Johnston   0 10
Algernon Joy   0 10
From a German    0 6
A. Glendinning    0 5
Per Mr, James Burns’s list in The Medium and
Daybreak, 29th September, 1876, viz.:—
£ s. d.
Miss Jane Jennings    0 5 0
Mr. W. Jennison    1 0 0
Mr. Bums’s Lecture  2 4 5
N.v :   ;  0 5 0
A Grateful One   1 0 0
M. A. B    0 10 0
F. M.   0 2 6
' Mrs. Col Boyd   0 10 0
Mrs. E. F. Eddy, of Boston  0 16 0
- Col. P. Greek      110
Mr. Beckett   r...  0 2 0
Mr. R. Wortley   1 10 0
J. F. O. ....;   0 10 0
Dr; Thomas Hayle   110
Mr. D. Richmond   0 6 0
Mr. D. Burgess   0 2 6 10 19 6
The Committee earnestly solicit further contributions to-
'wards this fund. Remittances can he forwarded either to Mr.
,J. N. T. Martheze, the hon. treasurer, or to Mr. Thomas Blyton,
hon. see. *
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
^DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re-
Ipayable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
■jon the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
■Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10. to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniog.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
Just published, a New Song.
-p EMEMBRANCE (embossed title), 4s. in A
JLV> flat for contralto or baritone, and in O for soprano or
tenor. Woids by W. H. Parker. Sung by Miss Laura
Matthews, Miss Hellier, Mr. R. Odell, and Mr. Sidney Barber,
iAlso the. Snowdrop Mazurka and Dewdrop Redowas (second
’edition); each 3s., by the tame composer. To be had of all
Music-sellers, and of the Author and Publisher, post free, at
half price. Copyrights reserved. A few second-hand piano-
j fortes . for sale; from £5 to £18. N. Vickery, Professor of
j Music, 9,^Cambridge-terrace, Railton-road, Herne-hill, S.E.
TO INVALIDS AND OTHERS.
: A-N EXPERIENCED PHYSICIAN, prac-
" tical y acquainted with all systems of Medicine, offers
a comfortable -RESIDENCE to a Spiritualist, on moderate
terms) in a most salubrious locality, combining the advantages
of'town and country, with view of the sea and pleasing inland
scenery; Apply to Dr. William Hitchman, 47, South-road,
Watffjpo, near Liverpool,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Oct. 27, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq.., 1, Hereford-square.West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Fa/rkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Hernard-villas, Upper Norvrood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Oambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orvvell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitcnman, William, M.E.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 02, Warwick-square, S-.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., 13arrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-end, FinchlejvN.W
Smith, Martin fi., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D.,Douglas House, 13*Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
vVason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S-W-
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 200, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F A., 22, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 169, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, R,, Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Urosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, 1, Cornwall Residences, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Dodd.'J. T| Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Obersteih-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-trd,North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixtou,
S.W.
Glendlnning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M;D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-orescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Eennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivlmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W-
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W-
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex,
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N-
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C,
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, M rs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-eud, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
roaa, S E.
Stravbndge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
S trawbridge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale; Central-hill. Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G: R.. 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park,pBlackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. \V.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds,
wjison, D. H. M.A., LL.M., PosteRestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orrhe-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall. Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin It. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J, II. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miiis Kislingbury, 38, GreatRussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden
-Vhmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols aMaranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veli, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia. .
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Jvornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.*
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,986, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq , M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J.Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Yernoa-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-Street. Philadelphia.U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 6, Rue de la Terrasse,, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq , 2, Rue de Rocroi. Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson. Mem phis, Tennessee, U S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston, U.S A.
I M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee'St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1 Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue T anger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—George Browne,
Esq., 63, Newlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad'.Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Sendr Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mx. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876; 
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Arc, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
npHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simekin, Marshall <fc Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“ Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book ” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 600 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie"
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m.
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); and Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatment by clair¬
voyant. Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and other phases as
usual Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, but Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MRS. BURKE is about to hold PDBLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8 o’clock; to commence on Friday, tne 15th
inst. E. W. Wallis, medium for trance communications. Other
seances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance for refined physical manifestations, with a first-class
medium, will be held on the Wednesday evenings of each
week, for a few weeks only. Fee 5s.
MDLLE; HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
MEDIUMSHIP : ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.O. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Good chambers or furnished
APARTMENTS to LET. Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
mo LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi-
JL detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry ;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6£
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
Furnished apartments to let,
consisting of pleasant Sitting Room and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. Near to
Rail and Omnibus. C. P., 102, Clarendon-road, Notting-hiU, W.
TAKEN AWAY BY MISTAKE from the
Ladies’ Cloak Room, at 38, Great Russeli-street, on
Wednesday Evening, October 4th, a DOUBLE-GLASS SMEL¬
LING-BOTTLE, with Gilt Stoppers, much valued by the
Owner. If found, it is requested that the same may be left in
charge of the Secretary, at the Reading Room, 38, Great
Russell-street.
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI-
k3 CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane. E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
KEVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fondts par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1 st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM: OR, the two
CLEVER SCEPTIC 9. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.RS., X.Y.Z., B.LG.AS.S., and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6Jd. Spiritualist newepapor
branch office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The banner is a first-class, eight-
j paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
I and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., <tc. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
, Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
J[ \ttmb #1 xtf % d ^jmjiiuitlmt.
Vo^UjVlE Kij^e. Kumber Thirteejh.
LONDON, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27th, 1876.
THE RAPID EVOLUTION OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
The increase of attacks upon mediums renders it highly
desirable that the phenomena of Spiritualism should become
more widely known to the inhabitants of London than is the
case at present, in order that many misconceptions may be
removed by experience gained in additional private families.
Articles have sometimes been published in this journal some¬
what discouraging proselytising work, on the ground that it
is better to quietly study the nature and difficulties, as well
as the advantages of mediumship, in order, by experience, to
make beaten tracks for those who are gradually entering the
Spiritual movement. But if public prejudice and want of
knowledge are to be allowed to exercise an aggressive influence
upon Spiritualism, it becomes a necessity that energetic
steps should be taken to familiarise the public with the facts
of the subject more rapidly than is done by the present rate
of increase, although that rate is a high one. This could be
done whenever desired, by advertising in the more largely cir¬
culated of the daily papers, instructions how to form spirit
circles at home; it would not cost much. Although, because
of mental inertia, experiments would not be tried by many
who read the advertisement, a certain proportion would
attempt to obtain manifestations. On the lowest estimate,
some hundreds of mediums would then be developed within
a fortnight; and supposing that each of these invited some
twenty friends a week to witness the manifestations, which
is by no means a high estimate, it is clear that a great deal of
ground would at once be cut from under the feet of those
mountebank authorities who are denying the reality of the
phenomena, and who would then no longer be able to play
upon public credulity and ignorance. A still more efficient
plan would be to determine that instructions how to form
spirit circles at home should be posted to every householder
in London and its suburbs. Supposing but a hundred pounds
were spent in this way, and that not more than one family
in every dozen attempted to obtain manifestations, the
results would still be such as to stop the abuse and mis¬
representations of the uninformed. The proposed work
might be done within a fortnight, if some few Spiritualists
were to think it desirable to unite to subscribe the necessary
amount.
The ordinary rate of increase of circulation of The
Spiritualist has been greatly accelerated by the present
general contention about Spiritualism, and many persons
are inquiring into the subject who never dreamt of doing so
before. For the benefit of these inquirers, the following
instructions how to form spirit circles at home are re¬
published :—
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin by
forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional
medium present. Should no results be obtained on the first occasion,
try again with other sitters. One or more persons possessing medial
powers without knowing it are to he found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and
that there shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the
circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all
the palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the
hands touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table
will do, j ust large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The
removal of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but
when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it some¬
times, but not always, considerably delays the manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communi¬
cations that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle,
for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with
well-developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling
against them is frequently found to be a weakening influence. i
I! Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general con-
| versation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a
frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling
| like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations
will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to the table as to
an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps
I mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask
whether the arrangement is understood. If three signals be given in
| answer, then say, “ If I speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will
I you signal every time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out
a message? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the plan
proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of communication is
established.
| Afterwards the question should be put, “ Are we sitting in the right
| order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some members of the
| circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals
j will be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ”
When the intelligence asserts itself to be related or known to anybody
present, well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
| statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the virtues and
all the failings of humanity.
! A medium is usually a person of an impulsive, affectionate, and genial
nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences. Mediums are of
both sexes.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
| members of the circle are strongly hound together by the affections, and
| are thoroughly comfortable and happy. Family circles, with no strangers
i present, are usually the best.
| Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
] mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance, while by
| sitting regularly two or three times a week the manifestations will rapidly
develops.
j Among the varied phases of the phenomena already observed by
i investigators may be noted the following:—Movement of physical
objects, both with and without contact with the sitters; direct writing,
] drawing, and voices; entrancement; trance, and inspirational utter¬
ance ; temporary materialisations; involuntary writing ; healing; vi¬
sions ; impressions; as well as many phenomena observed in the study
I of mesmerism and clairvoyance.
One out of every three experimental circles, formed in
accordance with the above rules, would probably obtain
| manifestations. Half the mediums thus developed would
] probably obtain physical manifestations, whilst the others
would exhibit trance, clairvoyant or writing powers;
| through mediumship of the latter kind, the more truthful
messages, and the higher spirit teachings come. When
physical manifestations in the shape of motions of solid
I objects are produced with power, direct writing can usually
! be obtained by sitting and asking for the same. At first it
L is likely to be obtained only in the dark, but, as the power
| grows stronger, the medium can sit in the light, and get
| the writing by putting the slate and pencil, or pen and
paper in comparative darkness—say beneath a dish-cover
| upon the table, or by placing a crumb of pencil between the
slate and the table. There is a later development, in which
| a pencil will stand on end, and write in the light before the
eyes of the observers, as was the case a few weeks ago
through Dr. Monck’s mediumship, in the presence of the
editor of the Malvern News and other persons. Direct
1 writing has also been thus obtained at the. house of Mr.
] W. Oxley, Higher Broughton, Manchester.
Mr. J. J. Morse in the North.—Mr. Morse is now engaged, in
his usual winter tour of lecturing engagements. He commenced them
| by a series of three trance addresses at Batley Carr, on Sunday, Oct.
! 15th, and Thursday, Oct. 19th, larger audiences than could be accom-
| modated being present on those occasions. On Sunday last Mr. Morse
delivered two inspirational addresses in the old County Court rooms,
Halifax, to appreciative and large audiences. On Sunday next he will
give two inspirational lectures in the Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-
| street, Manchester, afternoon at three, subject “The Way of Life,”
evening at 6.30, subject “ From Atom to Angel.’’ His other engage-
| meats are—Newcastle-on-Tyne, Nov. 5th and 6th; Liverpool, Nov.
| 12th; Glasgow, Nov. 19th ; Birmingham, early in December ; London,
Sunday, Dec. 24th and 31st. His permanent address is Warwick Cot-
* tage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
146
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 27, 1876.
ORIGINAL RESEARCHES IN PSYCHOLOGY.*
By T. P. Babkas, F.G.S.
At the present time, great interest is being taken in the investigation
of the alleged phenomena of modern Spiritualism.
Professor Barrett’s paper, read to the members of the British Associa¬
tion in Glasgow during the present year, and the discussion which fol¬
lowed, combined with the prosecution of Dr. Slade by Mr. Lankester
and Dr. Donkin, have served to direct the attention, not of the general
public merely, but of many men of science, to the consideration of the
occult phenomena that are said to occur at seances. It is not my
intention to review the proceedings of the British Association, nor do I
propose to refer to the prosecution of Dr. Slade, but I desire to place
before you a record of a series of psychological phenomena, which,
I believe, are unparalleled in the entire range of psychological in¬
vestigation.
INTRODUCTORY.
Knowledge in every department of nature is cumulative. The en¬
lightened portion of mankind may be broadly divided into two classes—
discoverers and disseminators.
The discoverers are original men, of analytical and practical minds,
who restlessly investigate the mysteries of nature.
The disseminators are those who have the faculty of popularising
newly-discovered facts and phenomena, by presenting them in a clear
and comprehensible form to the mass of mankind.
The facts and phenomena that present themselves to the human mind
for investigation are practically limitless, and our knowledge of physical
and psychological phenomena is ever on the increase.
From the most remote ages, or at least from the earliest historical
periods, men in natural capacity for art, science, and literature, appear
to have not much, if at all, improved, but their acquired knowledge has
ever been on the increase.
Much that in the early days of Greece and Rome was recognised as
knowledge, was, in reality, little more than learned ignorance, the result
of accepting the apparent as the real. Whilst the dialecticians of
antiquity trained and strengthened the mind for the eventual compre¬
hension of the riddle# which nature is everywhere and always propound¬
ing to the students of h#r mysteries, they did but little towards the im¬
mediate interpretations of those mysteries. Not in metaphysics merely
could the gordian knot neither be cut nor opened, but from the time of
Thales and Aristotle, until a quite recent century, even in pure physics,
the early notions of the peripatetics maintained their ground uninjured
and almost unchallenged, until the period of Galileo and his learned
confreres. In the region of physics, there has been much progress
since the days of Galileo and Copernicus, Newton and Bacon, but in no
period of the history of the world has scientific progress been so rapid as
in the present century. In psychology, however, the schools of learning
are but little further advanced than were the philosophers of the Aris¬
totelian and Alexandrian schools.
Insignificant as is the acquired knowledge of the world when compared
with the to be known, it nevertheless requires the longest life, the most
devoted industry, and the highest natural capabilities to acquire a mere
fragment of the knowledge already accumulated; and hence, the learned
world is being rapidly divided into sections of specialists, consisting of
men who are abreast of the acquired knowledge in their specific depart¬
ments, and who, in other departments, possess a mere smattering of the
accumulated knowledge of the world. This state of partial knowledge
of the known will increase with the process of accumulation, and well-
informed men will be all those who, in addition to well-disciplined minds,
have a general knowledge of many subjects, and a special knowledge of
one or more*.
It appears impossible that any man within the limited period of ter-
restrial lif'e, can gather within his own mind the present acquired know¬
ledge of the world. We cannot acquire a complete knowledge of the
known, and it appears certain that we cannot, either in this world or in
the next, acquire an exhaustive knowledge of the, at present, unknown.
This all cultured, critical, observing, and industrious men may do;
they may enrich our present stores of knowledge by original research
and patient investigation, and they may avoid the common d priori error
of affirming what is and what is not possible, apart from experimental
research.
The field of pure physics is open to all inquirers, and is occupied by
many of the profoundest investigators of the age.
Psychology, which, in this material age, has been recognised as barren
of valuable results, has been to a large extent neglected.
RESEARCHES IN PSYCHOLOGY.
I propose this evening to direct your attention to researches in the
region of psychology, such as I think for importance have not been
excelled, and probably have never been equalled by any previous in¬
vestigations.
FIRST SEANCE.
In the year 1875 I was informed of a lady through whose mediumship
written communications of a somewhat remarkable character had been
received, but my previous experience of written communications, to¬
gether with the fact that I was busily engaged in the investigation of |
the phenomena of materialisation, led me not to pay so much attention
to the information respecting the mediumship of the lady as it deserved. \
Towards the middle of 1875 the lady’s mediumship took a new form, and {
instead of essays and answers to questions, she developed into an
excellent drawing and clairvoyant medium. At that time I had, to a
large extent, satisfied myself as to the genuineness of what is termed
materialisation, and being interested in the drawing phenomena, I wrote
to the lady asking permission to attend her seances, She at once kindly
invited me to attend her circles.
* An address delivered last Monday night to the Newcastle Psychological
Society.
The seances were held on the Monday evening of each week, and on
the evening of Monday, July 19th, 1875, I attended my first seance
under her mediumship.
Daring the evening I sat as a spectator of the phenomena that took
place, without interfering in any way with the mode of conducting the
seance.
WHO ARE THE CONTROLS?
I ascertained that the lady was subject to several controls, and that
the leading controls gave the names of John Harrison, Walter Tracy,
Humnur Stafford, Ninia, and Felicia Owen.
I have had the privilege of reading and copying the records of the
seances which had been held previously to the time of my becoming a
member of the circle, and from those records, together with the infor¬
mation that I subsequently obtained, I ascertained, according to the
statements of the controls, that John Harrison was a well-educated
country gentleman; that Walter Tracy was an American student and
Federal soldier; that Humnur Stafford was an American, who had
devoted several years to the study of the physical sciences in a German
University, and departed this life in America, in 1864; that Ninia was
a little Spanish girl, who was burned in the great fire in Santiago; and
that Felicia Owen was a young lady who had died at an early age
whilst an inmate of a convent.
These are the statements those controls give of themselves, but I have
not yet made such inquiries as to justify me in certifying that their
statements respecting themselves are correct.
INDIVIDUALITY OF THE CONTROLS.
Each of these controls maintains a strict and sharply-defined indivi¬
duality ; in fact, their mental characteristics are as marked and distinct
as are the characteristics of as many typical people, such as we meet
from day to day. Their ideas, modes of expression, and mental idio-
syncracies, are in all their communications clearly defined, and, without
being informed who the communicators are, I could easily select their
communications, from differences in modes of thought, styles of compo¬
sition, and caligraphical peculiarities.
John Harrison has all the characteristics of a well-educated ordinary
Englishman; Walter Tracy has the peculiarities of a rattling young
intelligent American ; Humnur Stafford those of a highly trained, very
refined, and unusually well-informed scientist; Ninia those of an impul¬
sive, simple-minded southern child; and Felicia Owen those of a refined,
sensitive, poetical, and religious English Roman Catholic maiden. It is
not by one communication, nor by a very limited number of communi¬
cations, that I am able to assert my ability to individualise the com¬
municants. I have in my possession hundreds, probably thousands, of
communications from those various controls, and throughout the whole
the utmost harmony prevails as regards individuality.
Not only have I communications from controls whose names I have
recorded, but there are also several other communications from friends
and companions of our other world communicators, who occasionally
address us through the instrumentality of our lady medium. These
intelligences who are only occasionally present at the seances, or, at all
events, who do not announce their presence, are numerous. One is a
medical man, who gives the name of Willis, and is as well informed in
anatomy and physiology as are ordinary professors at our Universities;
another gives the name of Dr. Aaron, and professes to have been a
disciple of the Alexandrian School of the sixth century; another control
gives the name of Luther; another professes to be Nero; another, a
lady, who gives the name of Katrina Schroudner, writes in mixed
German and Russ; besides other occasional visitors,
IS IT HALLUCINATION ?
The facts I have just stated will, probably, impress nearly all those
who become acquainted with them with the idea that hallucination in
this world is terribly rampant, and that special means should be taken
to check it as speedily as possible. Permit me to say to such, that I
have MSS. of all the communications to which I have referred; that I
have the names and addresses of all the ladies and gentlemen who
have attended these seances; and can refer inquirers to any one, or to
all of them. I have attended every regular seance since July, 1875, and,
during that time, the majority of the questions were asked by myself.
No one but myself knew the questions. The answers to many of the
questions were entirely unknown to myself or to any one in the room.
Many accurate answers given were contrary to opinions I held. The
range of the subjects was so extensive, and the answers, generally
speaking, so accurate and appreciative, that I do not believe there is a
single living man in this world who could have answered the whole of
the questions as well, under similar conditions to those in which they
were answered, through the mediumship of a very ordinarily educated
lady. To me it would be more extraordinary that any ordinary, or
extraordinary, lady should answer the whole of the questions I put,
than that they were answered automatically through the hand of the
medium by the controls who profess to be the answerers of them.
A NEW WORK ON PSYCHOLOGY,
When the work is published, on which I am at present engaged, it
will embrace the whole of the questions asked and the answers received,
together with explanatory chapters and foot-notes; it will readily be
seen, on its perusal, that no single person could, under the conditions,
answer the questions; and, as neither the lady medium nor myself have
any pecuniary interest in the forthcoming work, and it will entail upon
me a large amount of onerous but agreeable labour, I, with the more
confidence, commend it to your earnest consideration.
When the work will be ready I am not yet prepared to state, because
I hope to continue the investigations through the instrumentality of the
same medium, until I have received replies to all the useful questions I
may feel it important to ask, or have exhausted the information of the
very communicative and very intelligent friends who have hitherto so
ably answered my queries.
Oot. 27, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
147
MODE OF CONDUCTING THE SEANCES. I(j
Before proceeding to describe the phenomena that took place at the m
sSances, and the replies given to some of the questions I asked, it may j j
be desirable to place before you a description of a typical seance, so ||
that you may know the conditions under which the communications j);
were received. lu
The sSances were held in the residence of the medium, the sitters j
were generally seven in number, they sat in chairs round an oblong j)j
deal table, about 3§ feet long and 2 feet broad, which was without a j j j
cover. The medium sat at one end of the table, Mr. Armstrong sat on j j
her left, I sat on her right, and the other sitters sat round the table. A |)
candlestick and lighted candle stood on the table, and a fire burned U
with ordinary brightness within the fire-grate. j
I provided MS. books, crown folio size, and at the commencement of w
each stance I wrote on one page of the MS. book the date of the seance, Hi
the names and order of the sitters, and any remarks about the weather, ) |!
or amount of light, I thought proper to make. All my writing on the j i i
MS. book was in phonography, and when I wrote questions I read them j (j
aloud, so that the medium might learn the drift of each question, )j
although she could not be supposed to understand its precise meaning, (j
because of its technicality. y.
At the commencement of the sittings we placed the MS. book before >1
the medium, our hands being in contact with each other on the surface n
of the table. We extinguished the candle, leaving the room lighted by (j
the ruddy glow of the fire, there being sufficient light to see each )|
other and objects perfectly. When we had set thus for about two /]
minutes, the hand of the medium began slowly to tremble ; she then (j
took up a pencil, and sat with the pencil pointing to the MS. book. In \Y\
the course of another minute the hand began to write, and a communi- j) I
cation of welcome was generally written, such, for example, as “ I am 11 j
glad to meet you this evening, and shall be happy to answer any )j
questions.” n
We, after this invitation, proceeded to ask questions, generally on (|
scientific subjects, usually restricting them to one department of science |]
at each sitting. The subjects embraced frictional electricity, magnetism, (j
galvanism, light, heat, acoustics, music, the laws of harmonics, the m
structure and functions of the eye, the structure and functions of the j /1
ear, the brain and nervous system, the conditions of the future life, and j j!
the philosophy of what are termed spiritual manifestations. jjj
To the questions on all these subjects we received able answers, such \)\
answers, in fact, as could only be given by a person, or by persons, (|
familiarly acquainted with the subjects. m
When an answer to a question was written the candle was re-lighted, jrj
and the answer read aloud. Another question was then put, and Kj
answered with great readiness and rapidity, and this questioning and (|
answering rapidly proceeded during the entire sitting, which generally m
occupied two-and-a-half hours. j(j
At the close of each sitting I brought away with me the MS. book, and ! [l
copied the proceedings verbatim, so that a duplicate verbatim copy of in
the entire records is now in my possession, and both the original and the (j
copy may be seen by any representative lady or gentleman. Hi
ABE THE QUESTIONS EASILY ANSWERED ? j(j
In order to give a general idea of the nature of the several questions \\i
asked, I shall select two or three questions and answers from various n
stances, embracing different subjects. They will enable you to judge |(j
of the relevancy of the answers, and the ability of the controls.
As some of my audience may be under the impression that questions
such as I asked the controls of the medium are'comparatively easily Rj
answered, and that alleged psychological phenomena are really the >i
shams which Mr. Lankester and Dr. Donkin appear to believe them, I j)j
am quite prepared to rest the issue of the difficulty of answering the Rj
questions, on the answers that these impulsive young men would give |jj
to them under similar conditions; and I shall be very much surprised m
if these two gentlemen, professors in London Universities, and mem- (j
bers of learned professions, answer the questions one half as well as they >]
were answered by the controls of this very moderately educated lady )j
medium. Rj
To come nearer home, I may take another test of the probability of >j
the questions being easily answered, by reading a few of them to the m
audience now assembled, and, after each question, waiting for a short Rj
period, in order to afford any lady or gentleman present an opportunity j)j
of answering them. I shall adopt this course, and wait for answers by m
my hearers. ! \ i
I shall select questions and answers from various seances. j)i
harmonics. j) j
Q.—Is Helmholtz right in supposing that the harmonics occur Ri
simultaneously with the tonic ? ) j
A.—This must be incorrect, since the fundamental sound is the tonic, (j
the harmonics only give intensity and brightness, as it were, to the Rj
sound of the tonic. m
VITAL ACOUSTICS. j(j
Q.—How is the sense of sound conveyed to the mind ? j)j
A.—This is a disputed subject. Of course you know that sound, j)j
like light and heat, is motion, and is caused by the particles of air i(|
being set in motion, amplitude of vibration as you call it. These l)j
particles, which move in a backward and forward motion, cause a sound R j
wave to be propagated, which, falling upon the ear in close contact ju
with the tympanum, cause the auditory nerves to vibrate, and thus j>j
convey the sense of sound to the sensorium. Hi
INTERFERENCE. j)i
Q.—Please to inform us how it is that two similar sounds produce |)j
silence, and two dissimilar sounds do not 1 If j
A.—Because the waves meeting each other stop the progress of each Rj
other. Take two tuning forks and try, and I will explain. ||j
Q.—We have not two tuning forks ; please to explain to us how to
use them 1 I know how to produce the effect by using one.
A.—Take the two forks in either hand, strike them both with
equal force, and touch the ends on the table, the waves meeting in this
manner  You will see the crests of each wave
will intercept each other. The experiment is worth trying.
HARMONT.
Q.—Please to inform us what, in your opinion, is the origin of har¬
mony ?
A.—I will re-write the question. What’is the difference between har¬
mony and noise I Will that do, seeing that the other question is vague ?
The difference between harmony and noise is this, that the waves of
sound reach the ear in isochronous vibrations, music or harmony is the
result. When the vibrations are not sufficiently rapid, the ear is only
conscious of noise; when, again, the vibrations are too rapid, the ear
is not conscious of any sound at all.
Towards the end of the fifth siance, after I had asked many questions
having relation to science, it occurred to me that probably those scientific
questions and answers would be very uninteresting to several of the
sitters at the circle, who do not profess to have any knowledge of
scientific subjects, and I, therefore, to change the topic of conversa¬
tion, asked if the control would give us some description of his present
life, and of his departure from the present world. The reply was as
follows:—
A.—I will meet you on Monday evening next, and will tell you of
our state here as much as I may, but you must not expect too much,
for our state is beyond description. Such words as can best express
our condition I will use ; but, as far as I can judge, the English lan¬
guage is not in such a state of perfection that one can describe things
celestial.
At the next seance, held August 23rd, 1875, the control wrote, “ I
have arrived, what can I do for you first'? ”
the future life.
Q.—Will you kindly give us the information which'you promised on
Monday evening last, as to your condition and the general arrange¬
ment of affairs in the sphere in which you now dwell 1 That state¬
ment would be of great interest to all of us.
A.—I will commence with my experience on first entering my new
life.
Q.—Thanks. We shall be glad to learn it.
A.—I told you before that the last nine years of my life were years
of pain and agony, so excruciating, that I looked and longed for death
as the only means for relief from my suffering. Notwithstanding my
German education, I had never taken to pneumatics or metaphysics,
and had really never troubled myself about the future. To my mother
and sister I owe all the good in my nature, and, when I spoke to my
mother as to the preparation necessary for the future state, she said—
“Live, my son, so that when you leave this earth, you may leave
nothing to regiet behind ; be honest, truthful, and courageous, that is
the preparation I advise.” During the last few days of my”life I suf¬
fered extreme anguish, and my mother was once sitting at my side,
and when I made a murmur of complaint, cheered me by saying—
“ Death is very near now, you will soon be free,” and I blest her
then, as I have done since, that nothing in her words or manner made
me afraid to die. I remember, after this, falling into a stupor, but
I can still feel the kiss on my brow, and the words, “ He is going.”
Directly after this the pain ceased, and I felt, how can I describe
the exquisite pleasure, the intoxicating delirium that took possession
of my whole body; I can only liken it to the beatific trance of the
opium eater. I was roused from this trance by a form which bade me
come, and then I knew, for the first time, that I had died.
(To be concluded.)
LEGAL POINTS CONNECTED WITH THE SLADE CASE.
A great number of responsible literary and scientific
witnesses have seen phenomena in Dr. Slade’s presence
which were beyond the power of man to produce, and Mr.
Flowers, the magistrate, has raised the question whether
these witnesses are entitled to be heard, since they were not
present at the seances of which Mr. Lankester and his
witnesses have spoken. To this legal point Mr. Massey and
Mr. Munton will shortly have to direct their remarks. In
the event of Mr. Flowers deciding that he will not hear the
said witnesses for the defence, Mr. Massey has stated in
Court that he will adopt the line of action stated in the
introduction to the report of the progress of the Slade trial,
which is printed in this number of The Spiritualist
A Seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s.—On Wednesday nigbt,
last week, a stance was held at the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory,
21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, at which Mr. W. Eglinton
was the medium. Among the observers present were Mrs. Ramsay, Mrs.
Wiseman, Mrs. Dunbar, and Sir William Dunbar, Bart. From a few
notes, unaccompanied by details, which we have received about the
phenomena, we learn that raps were obtained. The noises came first
upon the floor and afterwards travelled upwards until they were obtained
upon the table. Later in the evening there was a materialisation seance;
the back drawing-room was used as a cabinet, and was separated from the
front one by curtains. Under these circumstances we are informed that two
spirits materialised at different times, and came out so as to be observed
by the company.
148
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 27, 1878,
THE SLADE PROSECUTION.
A report is appended—quoted from the Daily Telegraph
of Saturday and Monday last—of the progress of the pro¬
secution of Dr. Slade. The report omits to state that Mr.
Massey in effect informed the magistrate that if he intended
to commit the case to a higher court without previously
hearing the witnesses for the defence, he (Mr. Massey) would
urge another point, namely, that if the evidence for the pro¬
secution were assumed for the purposes of argument to
warrant committal, he should be prepared to demonstrate
that in a large number of cases genuine slate writing phe¬
nomena had occurred in the presence of Dr. Slade, con¬
sequently that if on other occasions writing had occurred
which wTas not genuine, the prosecution had produced no
evidence that Mr. Simmons was aware of the fact, therefore
there was not the slighest foundation for a charge of con¬
spiracy. This very important position to secure the hearing
of witnesses for the defence was stated in legal phraseology
in the midst of confusion, as the people were leaving the
Court, and it does not appear to have been heard by many
of the reporters, although it was attended to by Mr.
Flowers.
There is a just law that the proceedings of a court of
justice shall not be hampered by a discussion in newspapers,
or elsewhere, of the evidence before the Court until the case
has been decided. Were this not the case there would be
unseemly contention during legal proceedings, one hearing
of the case going on inside the Court and another outside,
so that, however difficult it may now be to keep temporary
silence over the merits of the Slade case, the general princi¬
ples enforcing silence under such conditions are good.
On one point both parties in the case may rest satisfied,
namely, that in the long run 1 here will not be a tittle of
doubt in the mind of anybody as to the guilt or innocence
of Dr. Slade. A professor of philosophy at Pisa once re¬
fused to look through the telescope of Galileo, just as the
Royal Society and the British Association some years ago
officially refused to consider the phenomena of Spiritualism.
Had the gentleman at Pisa consented to glance through
Galileo’s telescope, and afterwards reported what he saw,
although there might have been great contention at the time
over his version of the story, except among a limited number
of experienced observers, who had on other occasions been
privileged to look frequently through the glass, the record of
the casual observer would nevertheless have stood for un¬
disputed verification or rejection during all time. Certain
phenomena are making their appearance in the presence of
mediums throughout the world. The same manifestations
through different mediums have the same characteristics,
with a limited range of variation, and all the facts are
gradually coming under classification and the domain of
known law. Thus the general public of future years will be
able to determine from lengthy statements made about any
particular case by opponents of Spiritualism, whether they
have seen genuine or sham phenomena or not, because the
information will be contained in incidental statements, the
full import of which was quite unknown to the speakers
at the time of utterance. For the foregoing reasons the
historical reputation of everybody in any way connected
with the Slade case is irrevocably committed by the lines
of .action they have taken, consequently the one side or the
other will be irrevocably condemned. The case will never
pass from public memory; it is a more important one than
that connected with Galileo, because the question of the
axial rotation of the earth is of less vital interest to man¬
kind than the question of the possibility of establishing
communication with spirits, and of the possibility of scienti¬
fically proving the reality of another state of intelligent
existence. We apply these general principles, with even-
handed impartiality, to every person on both sides in any
way connected with the Slade case.
The following are the Daily Telegraph reports :—
On Friday, at Bow-street Police Court, before Mr. Flowers, this case was re¬
scued. It will be remembered that the defendant, Henry Slade, 8, Upper Bedford-
i ace, Bussell-square, was summoned at the instance of Mr. E. Ray Lankester, for
having on September 11, unlawfully used certain subtle means and devices to de¬
ceive and impose upon certain of her Majesty’s subjects, to wit, E. Ray Lankester,
'1'. J. Oldham, Henry Sidgwick, R. H. Hutton, Edmund Gurney, and W. B. Car-
pe ter. Upon a second summons, Henry Slade and Geoffrey Simmons, his clerk
or assistant, were charged with having on September 11, unlawfully conspired and
combined together, by divers false pretences, and subtle craft and devices, to ob¬
tain and acquire to themselves from the persons above-named and others, various
sums of money, and to cheat and defraud said persons and others. The Court was
again crowded with ladies and gentlemen interested in the inquiry, a considerable
number of ladies being accommodated with seats on the bench. Shortly after eleven
o’clock the defendants were called and took their position as before, in the usual
compartment beside the witness-box. The table, which had remained in the cus¬
tody of the officers of the court since the previous hearing, was placed beside the
magistrate’s seat.
Mr. G. Lewis, solicitor, appeared for the prosecution ; Mr. Munton (of the firm
of Messrs. Munton and Morris, solicitors) was for Mr. Slade; and Mr. Massey,
barrister, appeared for Mr. Simmons.
Dr. Donkin again took his place in the witness box. The evidence he gave on
the preceding hearing was read over to the witness and signed by him. It brought
down the narrative of the visit to the arrangements for writing on a slate.
Mr. Lewis, in continuation, asked: What did he then do ?—He put a small piece
of slate pencil on the slate, and placed the slate in apposition to the under surface
of the table. He held it so that the thumb only was visible above the table.
Do you remember with which hand he held it ?—With his right hand.
Did you then hear a noise?—There was a noise apparently of the scratching of
a slate-pencil, and at the same time, I noticed a to-and-fro movement of the arm
and some contraction of the tendons on the front of the wrist. He took away the
slate after a very short time and wrote a message—a short message, of which I
cannot remember the exact words, but which was to the effect, “ Here I am,” or “ I
will come,” and this was signed “ Allie.”
Was that writing very legible ?—Very illegible.
Did he say who Allie was ?—He did not in my presence.
What did he next do ?—He next wiped and cleaned the slate, and showed what
appeared to be both sides clean, and then began to talk. Ho asked mo if I was a
medium, and said he would ask.
Ask whom ?—He said he would ask the spirits.
What then ?—He made one or two other short remarks, and made a noise with
his throat.
During that time where was the slate ?—During a considerable partjof that time
the slate was not visible to me.
And whilst the slate was not visible, could you see his right hand ?—No.
Could you see his right arm ?—Yes; I saw it moving, as though he were
writing.
After you had seen his right arm moving, did he place the slate under the table ?
Yes; as before, and the sound of writing began again soon, and on its withdrawal
there appeared to be on the upper surface of the slate the words, “He can be a
good writing medium.”
Did he then again clean the slate.—Yes.
Did he speak to Professor Lankester?—He asked Professor Lankester if some
relatives of his had not signified their presence the last time—at the previous
sitting with him.
Did he say what he would do ?—Professor Lankester said they had, and Slade
said he would try if they would write again.
Whilst he was talking where was the slate ?—It was out of sight, as before, and
his behaviour was similar to what it had been.
Did you see his right arm moving to and fro as described ?—I did, exactly in the
same way.
Did you hear any scratching, as if some one was writing ?—Yes. ■
Whilst the arm was moving to and fro ?—Yes; ncratching, as of writing.
At that time I believe your fingers and those of Professor Lankester were
joined ?—Yes.
Did Lankester do anything ?—He pressed my finger at the time the writing
was heard.
What did Slade do with the slate ?—He put it back under the table, in the same
manner as before.
And did Slade withdraw the slate ?—’Yes; after a very short time.
And what appeared upon it ?—Words which he read to us as “ Samuel
Lankester.”
Was the word “ Lankester” legible?—Yes; quite legible.
How was “ Samuel?”—Samuel was very badly written.
What did Professor Lankester say?—That he thought the word “Samuel”
looked like “ Edwin.”
Did you make any remark ?—I told him, after looking at the slate, that I could
not read the word, but that it ended with “ in.”
What did Slade say to that?—That the word very likely might bo “ Edwin.”
Did you then hand him back the slate ?—Yes.
And what did he do with it then ?—He rubbed or wiped it quickly.
Did he say anything ?—To Professor Lankester he observed that perhaps the
spirits would write better if he held the slate with him.
What did Slade then do with the slate ?—It was removed out of sight.
By Slade ?—Yes; and he began making noises with his throat as before.
Did you observe his arm whilst he was making these noises with his throat ?—
I did. It was moving the same way as before.
Did you hear any scratching?—Yes, very plainly.
What sort of scratching?—Exactly like the scratching of a pencil on a slate.
When the scratching ceased, what did he say to Professor Lankester?—He
said, “ If you will hold the slate as I do, perhaps they will write ”—or words to
that effect.
What did Professor Lankester do ?—He put down his hand and instantaneously
snatched the slate away. Then he rose from his chair, held up the slate, and
showed Slade and myself that there was writing on it already. Ho said, “ I have
watched you writing it each time. You are a gross scoundrel and impostor,” or
words of that nature.
Now, when he charged him with that did Slade make any reply to it ?—None
whatever at that time.
What was his manner ?—He looked very much agitated.
Did you say anything to him ?—Yes.
What was his answer ?—That either then or after it would bo all explained.
What did you say to him ?—I called him a “ liar ”—(laughter)—or some¬
thing like that. I can’I?swear to the exact words.
Did Professor Lankester carry the slate into the front room ?—Ho did.
Was Simmons there ?—Yes.
And others ?—Yes.
Had Slade followed you into the room ?—Yes.
Did either of them offer any explanation ?—No.
Did Simmons make any observations to you in a low tone ?—Yes.
What was it ?—He said, “ As you have not been satisfied, you will not be re¬
quired to pay anything.”
Did Simmons say anything about similar exposures ?—He said the same thing
had happened to them before.
And did Professor Lankester say whether he should write to the papers ?—
Yes; he said he should do so.
What did Simmons say to that ?—He observed, “ It will be a good thing, and
the best advertisement we can have. Two hundred people will then come back
to see if they have been swindled.”
Was Slade present then?—No.
Did you notice any wink at the time ?—Yes.
. After a little time, did Simmons say anything about not writing to the papers ?
—Yes; that we had better not write, or we should be sorny for it six months or
some months hence.
Oct. 27, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
149
And yon wrote to the Times the same afternoon ?—Yes. I (j
I believe you did not pay anything before you went away ?—No. j (j
Cross-examined by Mr. MuntonIn your letter you state that you went with \\\
Professor Lankester in order to corroborate the opinion he had formed?—That I >!
is so. !);
Did he tell you what opinion he had formed ?—Yes. He told me the writing j )|
was done in the manner he has described in his evidence. I /j
Did he tell jou how he thought the first message was done ?—He did. He said j (|
he thought that the message appeared on the under surface of the slate. j (j
On which side of the slate, in your opinion, did the first message appear ?—It i (j
appeared to me to be on the under surface of it. i)!
Ho having told you his opinion, can you say for certain on which side of the I >j
slate the message appeared ?—No; I cannot. l)j
Slade, I believe, was sitting with his back to the window ?—Yes. j) j
And you were opposite to him ?—Yes. I (|
And Professor Lankester was sitting against one of the flaps ?—He was sitting ](]
on Slade’s right. j (j
Did you hear Professor Lankester say in his evidence that he was Sitting in ijj
such a way that it seemed to him there was no frame to the table ?—I did hear I) j
him say so. j)j
Did you think then that he was mistaken—that he was sitting in front of the ) j
frame ?—He may have been mistaken in the word that he used. I (!
When Slade (producing a small school slate) placed this under the table on the j (I
first occasion, you say that you saw his thumb above the surface of the table ?— j (j
Yes.
Was the thumb stationary ?—Yes; all the time.
You are sure of that?—I did not observe the thumb move
Then do you think that, with the thumb stationary, Slade could write the mas- I) j
sage underneath the slate—that is to say, on the surface of the slate which faced j)
downwards ?—Yes; I think he could.
With one finger ?—Yes.
He would have required, I presume, some of his fingers to sustain the slate j (i
under the table ?—Yes. j (j
Did Professor Lankester express his opinion to you that the message, or rather j)!
the message written under these circumstances, was written with one finger ?—1 j > 1
cannot say whether he said with one finger or not. 1) i
You said in a letter to the Times you went to corroborate the opinion he had
formed ?—Yes. j (i
Now tell us whether, in expressing the opinion he had formed, he did not (j
suggest that the message was written with one finger ?—He might have done so; j (l
I cannot remember.
You wrote after your visit, “ The result was in accordance with the theory of j)
the agency of a minute piece of slate-pencil probably held under the nail of the j > I
middle finger ? ”—I wrote that.
You meant that Professor Lankoster had given it to you as his opinion ?—I j; j
mean to say that the mention of the nail of the middle finger was my own idea.
Did you notice the condition of the nails of Dr. Slade ?—No.
You cannot tell us whether his nails were sufficiently long to hold the pencil ?— (j
No.
Did you form the theory that the piece of pencil was probably held under the nail j) j
before you left the room ?—I cannot say exactly when I formed the theory.
You mean you formed the theory that the messages were written with a pencil i)i
fixed under the nail, without having taken the trouble to see whether, from the j/j
condition of Dr. Slade’s nails, he could hold a piece of pencil there ?—Yes.
Would it surprise you to learn that, this theory having been frequently expressed (
before, Dr. Slade’s nails are always pared down to the lowest point?—No; not in l(j
the least.
If that would not surprise you, how do you venture now to say that a piece of j) j
pencil was held under the nail?—What I said was in accordance with that 1)1
hypothesis.
I ask you again, would it not surprise you to hear that Dr. Slade’s nails were j ? j
cut down as low as possible, and how do you make out that if that were the case i (j
he could hold the pencil under the nails at all ?—I think if the nails were cut j (!
down to the lowest point he could not hold a pencil between the nail and the flesh. ]) j
Did you think it desirable to look at the condition of his nails before you made
the report that appeared in the Times ?—No.
But you, at all events, did not observe the condition of his nails ?—No.
You say you cannot remember whether the writing on the slate on this occasion (i
was straight or curved ?—I do not recollect.
But you know the words were, “ I am here to help you, Allie ?”—The words were i (
to that effect.
You know that the piece of pencil had been placed on the top of the slate which
was then under the table ?—Yes, against the lower surface of the table.
And you knew that the writing was supposed to be found there?—No, I i|;
did not. ' a |(l
When, in your opinion, you discovered that the writing was underneath the !(l
slate, did it not strike yon as being very remankable?—I noticed writing on the j/i
opposite side of the slate to the side upon which the pencil had been placed.
Did you see Slade remove the slate from the position in which it had been i \ i
placed and show it to Professor Lankester, and did you see the action of his hand K j
and arm in so doing ?—I would not say that the slate was turned. I saw Slade |)
move the slate.
Do you venture to say it was turned ?—No, I do not.
Then, as far as you know the writing may have been on the upper surface of the j (I
slate?—It may have been; but my impression is that it was on the under sur- (i
face. My impression is that he, in withdrawing the slate from under the table, j \j
turned it over.
Do you say he turned over the slate?—I believe he did.
Upon what is your belief founded? Have you any recollection of the turning j)j
over of the slate?—I can say no more than what I have said. I cannot speak more ! )j
definitely.
Then you cannot tell us upon what surface the writing took place?—I cannot j(|
say on which surface of the slate the writing was.
And yet you wrote positively to the Times that the writing was on the surface of j (
the slate which faced downwards ?—I wrote to the best of my recollection.
When you wrote, as you have done, had you any reeollection of the slate jV;
being turned over ?—I have the recollection that my impression was that the slate j) j
was turned over. _ _ i (i
And, if that was only your impression, is that a fair way in which to convey j/j
your impression to a public newspaper ?—Yes.
You heard Professor Lankester express a doubt as to whether the writing was ! (|
on the upper or lower surface ?—Yes; I either heard or read it.
Did you write your letters—you and Professor Lankester—in concert ?—I should j S |
like that term to be explained. We wrote in the same room.
Did you consult each other as to what you should say ?—No.
Did you see Professor Lankester’s letter before it went to the Times f—Yes.
And he saw yours ?—Yes. j(j
Did you then agree with his positive assertion that the first message was i(j
written under the slate ?—I do not think he made a positive assertion. i \ j
You had four messages altogether on the occasion of your visit ?—Yes.
Did you hear the alleged writing by Slade on each occasion except the first ?—I I);
did not hear any writing on the occasion of the second message. j) ]
Was that the time when Professor Lankester called your attention by looking |)l
at you?—No; that was on the occasion of the third message. Hi
Mr. Munton: Did you ■write as follows to the Times on September 1C: “The j (:
next communication was partly quite legible, and in a straightforward, undis¬
guised hand. At this time it appeared on the upper surface of the slate. Bear¬
ing in mind the hypothesis that this was ready written before the spirits got to
work under the table, I carefully watched Slade during a considerable interval
before he replaced the slate. While he was clearing his throat, and making short
remarks, I saw his right arm, now at some distance from the table, moving exactly
as though he were writing on something placed upon his knee?”—I wrote that,
owing to my position at the table, I could not see his hand.
What do you mean by saying the message was “ ready written ?”—I mean to
say it was written in the interval between showing the slate apparently clean and
replacing it in a position for the spirits.
You don’t pretend that the writing was on the slate when it was first shown to
Professor Lankester ?—I have no reason to suppose it was.
You have heard about long messages being rubbed out, and their reappearing ?
—Yes.
You don’t suppose that this message was so produced ?—No.
We now come to the important message when the slate was snatched away;
but first state what you mean by saying the spirits were ready.—There were raps,
or something of the sort, by which Slade gave us to understand that the spirits
were ready to communicate with us; but I cannot remember the words. I stated
in reporting the interview that the spirits agreed to correspond with us, but these
were my own words describing the impression Slade’s words or acts gave me.
Did Slade show the slate to Professor Lankester and yourself immediately
prior to putting it under the table for the last message ?—No.
Where was the slate immediately before he put it on the table ?—On his knee.
Before the last message was written did he make any remark ?—He made many.
Did he make any remark in anticipation of the message ?—He said it would be
plainer if the slate were held by Professor Lankester with him.
After the rubbing out of the third message, what did he do with the slate ?—It
very soon disappeared from view. He took it up, and soon began to write upon it,
as I saw his arm moving.
After he had removed the slate, did Slade make any remark ?—He made more
than one; he was talking all the time.
You say in the passage I have read that he went through the same sort of
manoeuvres as before, although even more deliberately, very little effort being
made to avoid a loud scratching while the slate was under the table—do you adhere
to that ?—Yes.
That very little attempt was made to prevent your seeing that he was an
impostor ?—There was very little effort, I should say.
When he made the observation that perhaps the spirits would write better if
Professor Lankester held the slate, did Lankester say that he would do so?—
Professor Lankester immediately put out his hand.
There were, at all events, some twenty seconds before you heard a scratching,
and some interval of time between the scratching and the suggestion that
Lankester should hold the slate ?—I did not say that there were twenty seconds
before I heard the scratching. I said that the slate had been out of my view for
perhaps twenty seconds or more.
You know the message, “ I am glad to meet you, Edwin Lankester ”—eight
words ?—Yes.
How long would it take to deliberately write eight words ?—I cannot say.
But do you think that eight words could he deliberately written in less than a
minute ?—Certainly.
When the writer is not looking at the slate upon which it is written ?—Oh, yes.
How long an interval will you pledge yourself elapsed from the time of his
taking tho slate from the table and the time of its being snatched away ?—I could
not pledge myself.
As far as you know Professor Lankester^made no remark as to the slate, or the
condition of the slate ? —At what time ?
Just before the fourth message. Did he say anything about the slate ?—I have
never said that he made any remark. I only saw him put his hand out to take
the slate.
Did Slade say anything further when he suggested that Professor Lankester
should hold the slate?—He remarked, “ You will now see whether the spirits
go right.”
He did not draw your attention to the condition of the slate ?—He did before
the slate disappeared. He showed us that both sides of the slate were apparently
clean.
In your letter to the newspaper you state, “ Here let special notice be given to
the fact that at this moment the slate was said to be free from writing.” Now, why
did you call special notice to a thing which, as far as you recollect, did not occur ?
—The letter simply shows the impression he wished to produce, that the slate
was free from writing.
Do you think it was a fair thing to state in a public journal, “ Here let special
notice be given,” to something upon which you had no recollection then ?—I think
it was important to make the thing clear. There was a good deal to take special
notice of.
Was there more to take special notice of in the fourth message than in any of
the previous ones ?—Yes ; because tho fourth message was the one in which tho
proof of demonstration happened.
Would that justify you in saying at this moment the slate was free from writ¬
ing ?—I will pledge myself that Slade made us understand that the slate was free
from writing.
Then why do you ask that special notice should be given ?—Because 1 thought it
was most important that the whole account should be published for the benefit of
the public.
And that you consider a fair thing to do ?—I do.
Slade was agitated, you say, when he was charged with being a scoundrel and
an impostor ?—Very much so.
Was any other member of the party agitated as well ?—No; I think not.
You were quite cool ?—Pretty cool.
Was his agitation very much increased when you used the expression wo have
heard in this court ?—No; I uttered the words in a low voice, and I am not sure
that he heard them.
Was Professor Lankester in a state of agitation ?—No.
He was narrowly watching the slate to snatch it ?—Yes.
Then do you mean to say that he was not more or less in a state of agitation
while this was going on ?—There was no visible agitation, and Slade made no
remark of any sort or kind about it.
Had you attended any sittings of this kind before—sittings with slate writings ?
—No; never.
Or any other manifestations in the presence of paid mediums—have you had
much experience ?—Four or five times, perhaps.
Had you formed an unfavourable opinion against Slade as to the mode in which
this writing was produced before you went to his rooms with Dr. Lankestor ?—
No; I had formed no definite opinion about Slade.
You went with him to detect him?—In order to watch him—to see whether I
could draw correct inferences or not from it.
As far as you were concerned, you did not see Slade write a single word ?—I did
not see him write on the slate.
But you conjectured he was writing from the movement of his arm or the tendons
of his wrist?—It was an inference which I drew from the strongest possible
ground. I did not see him write, or his hand move on the slate.
Cross-examined by Mr. Massey: When you wrote to the limes you suggested
Continued on page 152.
150 THE SPIRITUALIST. Ocjt. 27, 1876.
A SEANCE WITH DR. SLADE. I |
(e On Sunday morning, Oct. 22nd, at one o’clock, Mr. W. |j
Metkerell and Mr. G. De Carteret, of Jersey, had a seance | j
with Dr. Slade, at 8, Upper Bedford-plaoe, London, W.C. | |
Dr. Slade produced two new slates, which were perfectly dryj j j
and appeared never to have been used before. They were j j
closely examined by the inquirers. Mr. Metherell then j j
placed them together, with a crumb of pencil between, and jj
Dr. Slade tied them firmly to each other, while Mr. | |
Metherell held them. The tied slates were then laid on the j j
top of the table, and Dr. Slade touched the frame of the j j
uppermost one with one hand, whilst his other hand was j j
held by those present. The slates never passed out of sight I I
of the observers. A noise like that of writing was then | |
heard, and it appeared to be executed at the ordinary speed.
Dr. Slade then requested the two observers to take the slates Hi
into the next room, and to open them in the presence of two | |
gentlemen who chanced to be there—namely, Mr. Charles j !
Blackburn, of Didsbury, near Manchester, and Mr. W. H. Har- j |
risen, of The Spiritualist. The strings were accordingly cut in
in their presence, and the inner sides of the two slates were | j
found to be filled completely from top to bottom, and from | j
edge to edge—with writing, including about seventy words i |
altogether. The writing had manifestly been produced with j i
a piece of slate pencil applied to the surface of the slate with j !
considerable pressure.”
In attestation of the truth of the foregoing statement, we ! i
append our signatures. j j
Wm. Metherell. Charles Blackburn. Ijj
Geo. De Carteret. W. H. Harrison.
HOW PSYCHO IS WORKED.
Mr. Algernon Clarke, the original inventor of11 Psycho,” I !
deposed on oath at Bow-street Police-court, last Friday, that m
he should be very glad if anybody were to make known how |jj
Psycho was worked. We discovered the secret within five j
minutes after first seeing the automaton, and in No. 140 of j j
The Spiritualist, published at considerable length, with ||j
engravings, the principles involved in its construction, j !
Some months later, namely in No. 197 of The Spiritualist, | |
we printed further particulars, written by Messrs. Maskelyne j i
and Clarke, and published for them in the form of a pro- ||!
visional specification, by the Patent Office.
Psycho is worked by varying the pressure of the air inside m
the glass cylinder on which the automaton stands ; the com- jj
pression of the air acts like a push, and the partial exhaus- m
tion of the air acts like a pull. The pushing and pulling jj!
action of this invisible rod—for committee-men are not j(|
like proverbial pigs able to see the wind—the push and pull of j j
this rod, we say, starts and stops clockwork machinery at j !
the proper moment inside the automaton. The air enters and j j
leaves the glass cylinder through the green baize or other fabric j j
upon which the cylinder stands, portions of the air-channel j j
being concealed under the baize. There are two ways of j j
working the figure. In the one case the pedestal may be j j
directly connected with the air pump apparatus by means |jj
of a pipe passing through the stage. In the other case the j j
figure may stand upon a pedestal connected with no pipe, j j
Compressed air is then contained in a metallic vessel inside Hi
the pedestal, and its escape is permitted or stopped at will j j
by means of an electro-magnetic valve. To work this valve j j
the feet of the pedestal are connected with fine wires running jjj
through the stage to the battery and the electrical com- j(|
mutator.
Any committee-men who wish to stop the working of Jjj
Psycho, can do so by placing a large folded newspaper over j j
the top of the pedestal, so that air cannot be blown back- jjj
wards and forwards into the bottom of the glass cylinder; Hj
but they must watch closely that Mr. Maskelyne does not jjl
punch a hole in their newspaper to let air through. Another jjj
way of stopping the working of Psycho is to mount the jjj
bottom of the glass cylinder upon three or four bungs, which jjj
anybody may take in his pocket to the Egyptian Hall, j j
If the bottom of the cylinder is thus removed from the sur- jjj
face of the green baize, no blowing of air through the baize
will much vary the pressure of that inside the cylinder.
To use the words murmured at Bow-street by a gentleman
who shall be nameless, “ Psycho is nothing but an air-barrel
with a Bulgarian atrocity on the top.”
APPROACHING INVESTIGATION OF SPIRITUAL PHENO¬
MENA BY DR. CARPENTER AND OTHERS.
A fortnight ago it was announced in these pages that
Mrs. M. F. Kane, better known to Spiritualists as Cl Maggie
Fox,” has arrived in England from the United States.
Mrs. Kane is the widow of the well-known Arctic Explorer,
Dr. Kane, who, when in England, was frequently an
honoured guest at the dinner table of Her Majesty the Queen.
She is also the elder sister of Kate Fox, through whose
mediumship the phenomena of modern Spiritualism first
presented themselves in America, in the year 1847. Mrs.
Kane bears the reputation in America of being a powerful
and reliable medium. She is now the guest of Mr. H. D.
Jencken, the barrister, who informs us that in her early
days she was submitted to a series of investigations by
committees in New York, Philadelphia, Washington, Cin¬
cinnati, and other States in the Union. Among those who
composed the committees were Mr. Horace Greeley, Mr. N.
P. Willis, Judge Edmonds, Governor Talmadge, Mr. George
D. Prentice, Professor Hare, Mr. Fennimore Cooper, and
Mr. Cassius M. Clay. At Washington, several Secretaries of
State and Senators joined the committee formed in that
city. At the sittings in the presence of these committees,
both Katie and Maggie Fox were subjected to various tests,
and at the seances the motions of objects and direct spirit
writing were obtained. Mr. Jencken further informs us
that the reports of these committees were all so favourable
as to give a great impetus to the progress of Spiritualism in
America. The same power continues with these ladies, and
is now to a certain extent available for the information of
some of the more educated and intelligent of the English
public.
Dr. Carpenter has had strong prejudices against Spirit¬
ualism; probably nobody has written or spoken more against
it, but recently he appears to have wisely cast aside these
prejudices, and to be willing to take part in a candid investi¬
gation. He consequently has resolved to avail himself of
the privilege of holding a few sittings with Mrs. Kane in
his own house, and it is to be hoped that the phenomena
produced will be as satisfactory as those which took place in
her presence during a week’s investigation at Fennimore
Cooper’s Institute in New York.
At present we have no direct knowledge of the nature of
Mrs. Kane’s mediumship, except in connection with a mani¬
festation of spirit power which took place last Monday even¬
ing at the house of Mr. and Mrs. Jencken. Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, Mr. Charles Blackburn, of Manchester, and a
medical gentleman were also present. Raps so loud that
they might have been heard in the room below, came in
profusion on the table, chairs, floor, and any object not far
from the medium. The lid of a piano in the room was
closed and locked, after which a message was given by raps,
requesting those present who could do so to sing. Every
now and then some notes on the closed piano were thumped,
keeping time in a rough kind of way to the words uttered
by the singers. This was done for a line or two at a time ;
then during an interval of five or six lines of singing, no
sounds were produced, as if the power failed at times, but
now and then became reinforced. From past experience we
have little doubt that the keys were struck by a partially
materialised spirit hand inside the enclosed space above
them.
We have been informed that one of the most common
manifestations obtained through Mrs. Kane’s mediumship
is direct writing without contact with human hands.
Excellent photographic likenesses of Dr. Slade and Mr. Simmons can
he procured of Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury.
Next Wednesday, the usual monthly sov-ee will be held at the rooms
of the National Association of Spiritualists, and as these are stirring times
a large attendance may be expected.
Oct. 27, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST. T51
PASSED TO SPIRIT LIFE.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—That earnest worker in the cause of Spiritualism,
Mr. Cogman, of 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end, E., was
released from the toils of earth-life, on Friday morning,
October 20th. His unceasing and invaluable work is well
known to your readers.
Some twenty years ago Mr. Cogman was an unbeliever,
like many others, and would have remained so, had not one
of his children become a powerful medium. She was a girl
of fifteen or sixteen years of age, and, when she was under
control, would, in the trance state, teach her father, and
explain religious problems to him, in a way that neither she
nor he could have done in the normal state. He thus was
gradually convinced of the truths of Spiritualism. He
afterwards became a trance medium himself, and used all
his power for benevolent and religious purposes. For many
years he was a great healer, and cured a considerable
number of people of their diseases. Mr. Cogman worked
gratuitously as a trance lecturer up to the time of his last
illness. Now that he has left this earth, we hope that
friends will continue to send subscriptions for the benefit of
Mrs. Cogman, who has always done all in her power to help
her husband in his earnest endeavours. The aid ought to
be considerably more than enough to pay off little debts
contracted during his illness.
Contributors are requested to send stamps or Post-Office
orders to me, Agnes Maltby,
41, Marylebone-road, London, N.W.
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES.
HOW A MEDIUM WAS FREED FROM BONDS.
On Thursday last I attended one of the series of seances
now being held at 38, Great Russell-street, through the
liberality of Mr. C. Blackburn. Mr. Eglinton was the
medium; about fourteen persons were present; it was
agreed to commence with a dark sitting.
A considerable period elapsed after we had taken our
seats round the table before any manifestations occurred;
then a direct voice from “ Joey ” was heard. On the ques
tion being put whether we were sitting right, two of the
party were directed to change places. “ Joey ” then became
very talkative, addressing several of those present by name,
and told us he meant to do his best.
The manifestations soon became more physical in cha¬
racter ; a small hand-bell was carried about the room and
rung violently : then the “ chimes ” were floated about, and
next the musical box ; the last being wound up by a strong
hand, and playing at the same time as the chimes, produced
fearful discord. Articles on the table were, judging by the
sound, being moved, and several of the party were touched
on the head or hands. It sometimes seemed to me as if
two or three manifestations were going on at once; this,
and the rapidity with which the phenomena succeeded each
other, was very confusing, and I do not pledge myself as to
the exact order of events.
After about twenty minutes the power became much
weaker, and at last seemed almost exhausted. It was then
resolved to try the cabinet. On the gas being lighted a
chair was found to have been placed on the table, and a
glass jug full of water had been moved from the middle of
the table to one corner.
Mr. Eglinton then went into the cabinet. On the ques¬
tion arising as to whether or not he should be tied, a
gentleman present, who seemed very sceptical, and whom I
will call Mr. X, expressed a wish to secure him. Of course,
he was at once asked to tie him as he liked. This he did,
and bound the whole person of the medium with tape
knotted in very many places; his neck was encircled and
the tape fastened to a staple in the top of the cabinet.
From the line between the neck and the staple another tape
was attached, passed through the aperture in the cabinet and
fastened to the leg of an empty chair next to Mr. X.
Altogether two whole pieces of tape were used.
The cabinet door was shut, and the gas turned low, but
not extinguished. “ Joey ” soon spoke, and asked one of
the party, say Mr. Z, for his note-book and pencil. Mr. Z
held the book and a pencil through the aperture ; the book
II was soon taken, not so, however, the pencil. “ Joey,” on
| being told that he had not taken it, replied that there was
! one in the book. The door of the cabinet was shortly after¬
ward opened about an inch and the book pushed out.
| 11 Joey ” next asked Mr. X to look in the cabinet and satisfy
| himself that the medium was still tied ; he did so, and
I found the tape to all appearance as it was. No materialisa-
| tion took place, and “ Joey ” retired without even saying
good night.”
When the gas was turned up and the door of the cabinet
opened, the medium was found to be entirely free from the
| tape, which was lying over one arm of the chair on which
i he sat, not cut anywhere, and still knotted. Mr. X said
the knots appeared to be the same he had tied. In Mr. Z’s
| note-book was written, “We are pleased to do all we can
| for Mr. Blackburn,” or words to that effect.
George C. Joad.
Oakfield, Wimbledon Park, Oct. 21st, 1876.
A DESERTER.
(From “ The Hornet.”)
Do you ever think of the green-room sweet
Since you have gone back to the world and its ways ?
Do you find the new life so complete
That no regret, nor thought e’er strays
Into the land of Bohemia
i And the old hard-working days ?
I am glad, so glad that I knew you then
When, for once, your free soul claimed its right
To a life of its own, a place among men
To shine, not hiding its light
Under a bushel, they’ve snuffed you out
INo doubt with conventional night.
And what have they made of you, sweet, a prude
Or a woman of fashion, with faultless dress,
Shut in a circle where none intrude
But those of the bluest blood—confess
They bore you to death with their fossilised ways,
But you smile—there is no redress.
I knew you, sweet one, less than a year,
They will have you all the years that remain,
All they can get, but I need not fear—
What I lose they never can gain ;
I helped your soul struggle up to the light,
They have fettered it with a chain.
I have seen your cheeks, dear, wet with tears,
And I knew how your heart has wrung and torn—
Smile for them prettily through the years.
They’ll believe you happy—but I have borne
To see you suffer—when grief means truth
It is wisdom to be forlorn.
No doubt you think with a pitiful smile
Of the theatre now—its tinsel and dross,
And forget what part you are playing the while,
Perchance you will find you have changed your cross
For one more heavy and harder to bear,
Can they make up the loss ?
I thought you knew what the hard work meant—
Ilts ups and downs—and its dull routine,
Doubt and despair together blent
With the sunshine of hope between,
And would not exchange the dear free days
IFor the stilted state of a queen.
But once out of harness you drifted away,
And I must not blame you, perhaps you are right,
The pretty role you have chosen to play
Will gain applause—nor would I, if I might,
Peer ’neath the laughing mask you hold
To see if your heart keep light. Ella Dietz.
The Unpardonable Sin.—Mrs. H. Stevens, of Markesan, Wis., writes:
—A few years ago a young Methodist minister told me there was one
“ unpardonable sin.” Late in the evening I fell into a deep sleep. After
about an hour I awoke suddenly, when I heard a voice say, “ Ask, and ye
shall receive.” I believed it was possible, and immediately I began to
i i ask. I finally heard a voice pronounce distinctly the word “outgrow.”
|( i I repeated the word several times, when I asked aloud, “ Why, what can
! ! I make of this?” In a moment there was a glimmer before my eyes,
|)l when I saw a board raised up from off the green earth, after having laid
there for some time. The grass beneath it was a pale, sickly colour. Then
I the spirit asked me, “ Is God going to forgive that grass, and make it
instantly green like the other?’ “Why, no,” I replied, “ but when the
sun, the air, and the dew, its natural elements, fall upon it, it will ‘ out¬
grow ’ its sickly hue, and become green like that around it.” “ Just so,”
the spirit said, “ it is in spirit-life. On earth we are weighed down by
natural causes until we are pale, sickly, dwarfed, like the grass, but when
we come out upon the broad plane of spirit-life, into the sunshine of God,
j\ i and witness the fulness of the provisions he has made for all his children,
| j we shall ‘ outgrow ’ these natural deformities, and become what we would
iti find it for our happiness to be here.”—Beligio-Philosophical Journal.
152
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Oct. 27, 1876.
The prosecution of dr. slade.
Continued frompaye 149.
that this message was written on the slate when Professor Lankester snatched the
latter away, and you say that at that moment especial notice should he taken of
the fact that the slate was said to be free from writing ?—Yes.
Having it in your mind that the slate had been written on immedi ately before
Professor Lankester put out his hand, do you not appreciate the importance of
that distinct and definite statement that at that moment the slate was said to be
free from writing ?—I think it important that attention should be called to the
allegation that the slate was then free from writing. In connection with this mes¬
sage, as in connection with all the others, we were most distinctly given to under¬
stand that the slate was clean before it was put under the table.
Do you mean the allegation was that the slate was clean at that moment, before
it was put under the table ?—Immediately before it was put under the table.
Was the statement that the slate was clean made before or after it was removed
by Slade from the top of the table ?—I think it was made after, but I cannot say
the exact time. I can pledge myself that a representation that the slate was clean
was made before the fourth message.
Would you say that it was a “correct ” or an “ incorrect ” impression to convey,
to say that Dr. Slade then said, “ Now please to observe that this slate has no
writing upon it ?”—I think it would be anincorrect impression. I have no recollec¬
tion of his using such words.
Is not that the impression which your description in the Times of the occurrence
would give ?—I think it quite possible that some people might put that interpre¬
tation upon it, but I did not intend it to be so understood. The sentence was
hurriedly written.
Supposing we were to suggest that that writing was the genuine writing, which
Dr. Slade said it was 
Mr. George Lewis: That is, of the spirits. (Laughter).
Mr. Massey: Don’t interrupt, Mr. Lewis.
Mr. Lewis : Dr. Slade has never said that it was the genuine writing of the j
spirits. (Laughter).
Mr. Massey : Suppose we were to say that this was not writing executed by
Slade, but was produced by some unknown force—I ask you whether it would not j
embarrass us very much in our defence if you had repeated here to-day—oh, you
have not done—what I understand you to have said in the Times, that this could
not be, because, after you had heard the writing, Slade declared that the slate was
clean ?—No, I don’t think I would. (Laughter).
Mr. Flowers (to witness): I should have thought that all you have said would
embarrass the defence. (Laughter.)
Cross-examination continued: I did not hear Slade make any remark to the
effect that the spirits were a long time coming. I knew that he said so, because I
saw it in the paper; but I did not hear him utter the words, I saw the move¬
ments underneath the table. I did not see the slate, or the hand; but I saw the
arm moving slightly, as a man moves his arm when he writes.
Re-examined by Mr. Lewis : At the time you wrote the letter to the Times had
you any knowledge of being cross-examined in Bow-street Police-court for an
hour and a half at one time ?—Not in the least.
Did you write it sincerely believing that you were giving a correct account of
what had taken place ?—Yes.
Had you any private end to gain by writing that letter ?
Mr. Massey: I made no such imputation upon the witness.
Mr. Munton: Nor I.
Re-examination continued: You wrote in the public interest?—Yes.
Was the slate always cleaned before being put out of sight ?—Yes; in order to
show us what appeared to be both sides of the slate before it was put out of sight.
He showed us the slate on each occasion that we might see it was clean.
With reference to this last message, beforethe slate was put into position imme¬
diately previous to its being snatched away by Professor Lankester, did Stade sav
anything about the spirits ?—He said, “ Let us see if they will write for you,” or
words to that effect.
Having made that observation he proposed to put the slate against the under
surface of the table?—Yes.
Instantaneously Professor Lankester snatched the slate away ?—The action ap¬
peared to be instantaneous.
And there was the message ?—Yes.
Mr. Lewis: I have no other questions to put to Dr. Donkin. I now propose to
call Mr. Massey.
Mr. Massey: I have no objection to appear as a witness, subject to an objection
which I desire to raise against the whole class of evidence which Mr. Lewis is
adducing.
Mr. Flowers: Is it really necessary, Mr. Lewis, to call Mr. Massey. There can
be no further evidence as to this particular transaction.
Mr. Lewis: It is, I think, most necessary in the interests of justice that Mr.
Massey should be examined.
Mr. Munton: I shall object to any evidence being given except that of those
gentlemen named in the summons.
Mr. Lewis: I do not propose to make any reply to that observation, because I
do not think any reply is really necessary. Y ou will see the materiality of the
evidence which I propose to adduce when Mr. Massey is examined.
Mr. Massey: I will argue that the evidence must be confined to witnesses upon
whom fraud has been alleged to be perpetrated, and who are named in the summons.
Mr. Flowers (to Mr. Lewis): You want to go on to prove other cases.
Mr. Lewis: Yes ; and I wish very distinctly to say that Mr. Massey was sub¬
poenaed to give evidence here before he appeared as counsel in this case for one of
the defendants, and that on the first hearing he appeared here in response to that
subpoena. I don’t wish it to be imagined that I wish to intrude upon the privi¬
leges of a gentleman who had once appeared as counsel for one of the defendants.
Mr. Massey: I shall contend that my evidence is inadmissible on the same
grounds that I should object to the evidence of any person who might be called
whose evidence I might consider irrelevant or inadmissible.
Mr. Flowers: Then you don’t object because you are a counsel in the case?
Mr. Massey: Decidedly not.
Mr. Flowers: Then you had better go into the box, and you can object to the
questions which you deem to be inadmissible when put.
Mr. Munton: I will object then, at the proper time ; but the evidence should be
confined to the specific matter charged in the summons.
Mr. Massey then passed from his seat, and stood near his worship.
Mr. Lewis: I should rather Mr. Massey went into the witness-box.
Mr. Massey: I shall do so; but, the place being so crowded, his worship said,
when I was endeavouring to pass, that I might remain here.
Mr. Lewis: Then I raise no objection.
Mr. Massey then proceeded to the witness-box, and upon being sworn said, in
reply to Mr. Lewis: My name is Charles Carlton Massey. I am a barrister-at-
law.
You know the two defendants?—Yes; I have known them since September 7th,
1875. I first made their acquaintance in America. I first became aware of their
arrival in England in July of the present year. I have been in the habit of visiting
them professionally for the purpose of seances, in order to take part.
What do you mean by a seance ?—I visited Dr. Slade for the purpose of wit¬
nessing what might occur in his presence.
Do you mean as to changes being produced upon a slate, or as to how changes
are produced?
Mr. Munton: I object to such a question as this, unless it can be shewn that
Professor Lankester and ijr. Donkin were present.
Mr. Flowers thought, on the whole, it might bo better to go on.
By Mr. Lewis: I would ask you whether you have paid any money to either of
the defendants ?—I have.
How much ?
Mr. Munton: I might suggest that this question is irregular.
Mr. Flowers : It will merely be taken down that the defendant has paid money.
I think it will be better we should stop there. Is there any use in knowing how
much was paid ?
Mr. Lewis: I think there is. The witness may have paid a shilling or a great
many pounds. (To the witness:) How much.
Mr. Munton : Really I must object. (Laughter,)
Mr. Flowers: I am afraid I cannot shut it out. I think it is admissible.
( Laughter.)
Mr. Lewis (to witness): How much ?—£1 on my own behalf, and £3 or £4 on
behalf of others. That includes what I paid in America.
But since you have been in England ?—£2 less—altogether about £9. I paid
the money to Simmons in the drawing-room at Upper Bedford-place, except once
on the landing of the staircase, I paid the money after I had attended the seances
in every case. I have also attended several seances without paying. Dr. Slade
was always “ chattering ” about “ Allie.” (Laughter.)
Mr. Lewis: What did he say ?
Mr. Munton: I object to the question.
Mr. Lewis contended that there was no real reason given for objecting to
the question.
Examination resumed: Did he speak to you about “ Allie ? ”—Yes. Dr. Slade
used to chatter away about “ Allie,” but I cannot tell you what he said exactly. He
said “ Allie ” was his wife’s spirit.
Did he tell you whether that spirit ever appeared and wrote on slates ?
Mr. Munton objected to the question.
Mr. Flowers ruled that the evidence was admissible.
Question repeated.—He has represented that a spirit wrote on a slate.
What has he said about “ Allie? ”—He has said, “It is my wife’s spirit who
writes this.”
Who writes what ?—-Tho messages signed “ Allie.”
Were they messages on a slate ?—Yes.
Did Mr. Slade repeat them ?—Mr. Slade did not repeat his statements, because
I was supposed to know them from what had occurred elsewhere.
Mr. Flowers: New York is a long way off—(laughter)—and it is not very
material to know what passed a long time since.
Mr. Lewis: Is that the table? (pointing to the table in front of the Bench).'—
I will take my oath that it is. At all events, I will give my oath that it in all
respects resembles that.
Did the mediums appear to be suffering ?—Yes; all mediums suffer more or
less. (Laughter.)
Did you require an explanation ?—I was too old a hand to require an explana¬
tion. (Laughter.)
Was any statement made ?—He never made any distinct statement that they
were not written by himself. I understood that the whole object of my going was
to see.
Did you believe they were conjuring tricks ?—I did not believe they were con¬
juring tricks. I went there to investigate.
Then I may take it that you left there on each occasion under the belief that
you had not seen conjuring exhibitions ?—I think I may say that on every occa¬
sion in which I have investigated with Dr. Slade I have been satisfied that ho had
no hand in the production of what I witnessed.
Did you pay your money under that belief ?—I should gladly have paid my
money if I thought 1 had been witness of the most arrant fraud. The money was
fairly payable when I entered the room.
If you had found it was a fraud on the first occasion, would you have gone a
second time?—Probably not without strong reason, or the representations of
others.
So far as you were concerned, did you pay your money believing it was not
conjuring—that the messages were not written by Slade himself ?—I did not be¬
lieve it was con j uring. I did not believe the message was written by Mr. Slade
with his own hand.
Did you receive a sum of £50 from Mr. Blackburn ?—No; not a penny.
To whom have you paid money ?—I have not paid money to anybody other than
the defendants in reference to these seances.
On these occasions has Slade said that he saw lights in various parts of the room ?
—Yes; but I have never seen them.
Has he represented any light to be present on your shoulder?—I have heard
him say, “ There’s a light here,” and “A light there,” pointing to them.
Have you ever seen a light ?—No; never.
Upon any occasion have you observed anything with reference to a chair ?—I
have seen a chair raised in the air on these occasions. I cannot say it was always
the same chair, but it was in the same positions or nearly so. The chair was
within a few inches of the comer of the table.
Has Slade shown you long messages ?—Yes; one of thirty-five words, which
covered one side of the slate.
How often have you had such a long message as that?—Twice I can recall to
mind, and, as a matter of fact, those messages were previous to these proceedings.
Upon the occasion of the receipt of these messages has Slade risen from the
table and fetched the slate ?—As to one occasion I am not positive; as to the other
I can positively say not.
Has Slade ever produced a message in a locked slate ?—Not to me.
Have you had a conversation with him on the subject of messages in locked
slates ?—I have.
And what did he say ?—He said he had declined to submit to the test, published
by Mr. Hutton, because, in the first place, he could never, he said, be sure of
getting any proper test at all; and in the second place, if ho submitted to this
particular test it would only be the cause of other people coming with new tests,
which would, perhaps, be inconsistent with the conditions.
What conditions?—The conditions under which these things happen.
Before the long message of which you have spoken was produced, did Slade
wash the slate?—The slate was sponged or rubbed—I cannot be certain which.
After it was sponged did you put your hand over the slate or under it ?—I
think the message was obtained under the table.
Well, the other long message ?—I have told you I am rather hazy about it.
Did you put your hands on the slate ?—I think I did.
Why were your hands put on the slate ?—Well, it is a very obscure subject.
I know it is—(laughter)—but tell me who asked you to put your hands ou the
slate ?—I suppose Dr. Slade did.
Did he put his hands on it also ?—I think he did.
For what purpose ?—To make a contact of hands. Inasmuch as this force,
whatever it is, is supposed to proceed from him, it would be natural, as I under¬
stood, that his hands should be put in contact with that upon which the force was
to operate.
But what good were your hands upon the slate ? (Laughter.)—As a force pro¬
ceeding from him. I cannot explain it further than by saying that the contact of
hands is usual, and is supposed to be necessary or conducive to the results.
I don’t know whether you can form an opinion whether the heat from two hands
was more likely to dry the slate than from one?—That is a point upon which any¬
body can form an opinion.
Oct. 27, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
153
A discussion ensued as to the probable duration of the case for the prosecution,
in the course of which Mr. Lewis said that he had witnesses to call from Oxford
and Liverpool, whose evidence was necessary to complete his case. Under these
circumstances it would be impossible for him to close the case for the prosecution
that day.
Mr. Flowers: Is it really necessary to have these witnesses ?
Mr. Lewis: Certainly, in my judgment it is.
Mr. Munton: When will it be convenient for you to sit after to-morrow
(Saturday) ?
Mr. Flowers: Friday and Saturday next week.
Mi*. Lewis : I cannot bring all my witnesses to-morrow. If you will take the
responsibility of saying that a jury would be satisfied upon the evidence before
you I could shorten my case.
Mr. 1 lowers: I must say that Mr. Massey has done a great deal for his client
Simmons. At present I don’t see there is much against him.
The Court then adjourned for luncheon.
After luncheon the examination of Mr. Massey was continued by Mr. Lewis.
When you knew Mr. Simmons in America what was his business ?—He was
occupying the same house as Slade. I did not know he had any business. I did
not know his name.
Did you pay him or Slade in America?—I paid Simmons.
And they were apparently occupying the same house?—Apparently.
Did you ever inquire wheye Slade got his degree of “ doctor ? ”—No.
In reply to Mr. Munton, Sir. Massey then said: You have been investigating
this subject for some time ?—Yes; I have interested myself in it for about
two and a half years.
What led you to interest yourself in this subject ?—The first thing that led me
to investigate it was reading two articles by Mr. Wallace in the “Fortnightly
Review ” of April or May, 1874, entitled, “ A Defence of Modern Spiritualism.”
Previous to that you had no experience ?—None whatever. I first thought
these were the results of fraud, but I afterwards thought the subject worthy of
investigation.
You have attended seances ?—Yes.
Some of them in the dark ?—Yes.
From your early investigation did you not come to the conclusion that there
was some apparent trickery?—A very great deal. I thought there were circum¬
stances of suspicion, but I thought the subject worthy of public investigation in
consequence of the proceedings of eminent men. My observation led me to believe
that some ef these experiments had been misunderstood. I went to America to
acquire experience. I was specially led to go by certain evidence which came
before me.
Had you any seances—I had two seances. One was on September 21, when the
slate was against the lower side of the table.
Did the messages appear on the upper surface of the’slate which had been against
the lower surface of the table ?—Yes.
On how many occasions have you seen messages written under the circum¬
stances described?—Frequently; and on all those occasions the writing has been
as described, except when the slate was laid on the table.
Have you had messages when sitting with Slade with the slate on the table ?—
Yes; on several occasions. The slate was on the table and a bit of pencil under
it. Then writing was heard occasionally, without our hands being on the slate,
which was then turned over, and a message was there. This occurred twice, with
short messages under a dozen words. My first experience of Slade was at New
York, and was very remarkable. I was rather struck on the first visit by the
chair on which he sat moving to a considerable distance while he sat upon it. I
then drew back my chair, and said I should likeAo have it moved, and it was
moved two or three inches. On the second occasion of my visit, when I was
sitting opposite Dr. Slade, a chair was flung down with considerable violence, and
lay at a distance of five feet from the nearest point of Dr. Slade’s person. There
was a clear space between the table and the chair within my view throughout. I
asked that that chair should be picked up and replaced by my side, and in
a minute or two that was done, and I am prepared to swear that Dr. Slade had
nothing to do with it.
Was that in daylight?—Yes; upon an October day in New York, in broad
daylight.
Have you had any experience of slates other than those used by Dr. Slade ?— r
Yes. After my first visit to Slade I was dissatisfied, because what I observed j j
was on his own slates, and the theory of sympathetic ink occurred to me. I ! (
therefore, on my return to New York, procured two slates on my way to Slade’s.
I went with a friend. I tied up the slates with a small morsel of pencil between n
them, and told Slade that I desired writing to come upon the surface of one of the i)
slates, which wer < then held up in the hands of Slade and my friend. They were U
held a little off the table, but distinctly on a level with and not under it, in order j)
that I might observe, and I leaned over to have a full view. Immediately after- jj
wards, and in full view, the slates were returned to mo; they were untied, and on ;
the surface of one of them there was a message. That message was in answer to
a question of my own, and was, “ He has some power, and can be influenced.— i
Allie.” _ j
Was that in answer to a question expressed or merely mentally entertained ?— i(
In answer to a question expressed. I did not attach any importance to the informa- i (
tion. I should add that the slates were clumsily tied. I did not think they were 11
satisfactorily tied. But the real point us that these two men kept the slate con- ! i
stantly in my sight.
It was impossible that Slade could have written between the slates himself? j1
Absolutely impossible. When I have sat at the table with Slade he has sat in- I
variably against the frame part of the table, and never against the flap. On two
or three occasions he has sat with his face to the light. He sits in that position j
when he is asked. Twice he has sat in that way with me, and good results were
obtained. I have been touched. I have had my coat pulled. I have had my
legs touched with what might have been a hand or might have been a foot. I have
had my coat pulled, tugged—(illustrating the movement)—on the side farthest
away from Dr. Slade. That has happened when both Slade’s hands were on the
table. I have seen the chair elevated, but I could not say that it was beyond the
reach of Slade. I think Slade might, by tin-owing back his body, have reached
the chair with his foot; and if he had been a muscular man, or if ho were trained
for the purpose, might have kept it elevated with his foot; but I am sure that he
did not do so.
I believe you were much satisfied with the result of your investigations in New
York?—Yes.
And, notwithstanding your previous scepticism, you at once joined a well-known
society in London ?—I did.
What is the name of that society?—It is called by a slightly magniloquent
designation—“ The British National Association of Spiritualists.”
During all these sittings and seances with Dr. Slade, have you from beginning
to end had any reason to suspect any imposture ?—Oh, dear, no; certainly not.
(Some applause, which was at onco suppressed).
Re-examined by Mr. Lewis: I did not inquire into the history of Slade, before I
investigated the subject. I did not hear of his producing spirit masks which were
shown to be real masks.
Was there anybody looking under the table when you saw and felt the things
you have told us ?—A hand was seen under it.
Have you ever heard of false hands being used in conjuring ?—I have heard of
false hands.
Did you at any time look under the table when you were touched ?—I did not.
Was anybody there when you were touched that could have done it except
Slade ?—N obody.
) j Have you ever seen a spirit ?—I don’t know what a spirit is.
) I Mr. Flowers: These cannot be spirits because they use muscular force
) i l(Laughter.)
) j When the chair was thrown down at New York, did you examine the floor to
(i see if there was any machinery ?—No, it was a carpeted floor, but I examined the
\ i chair and found no wires.
S | What was it “Allie ” wrote ?—“ He has some power and can be influenced.”
) j Who was “ he ” ?—I.
) i What happened to you then ? What effect had it on you ? 'Did you dance about,
j); sit still, or produce a message ?—No.
|)| Did you ever try to produce a message?—I never did. I do not attach the
| (i slightest importance to those messages, because I do not believe them to emanate
|(! from any trustworthy source.
j(i What was the pencil put on the slate for ?—To be written with.
| S i By whom ?—I am unable to say.
|)i Did Slade lead you to understand who was to write.with the pencil?—I have
|) i already said—“ Allie,” the spirit of his wife.
j) I Mr. Flowers: Was it his spirit wife or the spirit of his wife ? (Laughter.)
i) i Witness: He spoke of the spirit of his wife. (To Mi\ Lewis): You must not
j /1 understand me to believe all that about “ Allie.” (Laughter.)
i (I Mr. Lewis: I don’t understand what you believe. (Laughter.)
i (j Witness: If you investigate the subject you will find yourself in the same position.
|) i At seances, in the dark, have you seen something more done than Slade has
m done ?—There has been moving of objects in the room.
j) j Has furniture ever moved from one part of the room to the other ?—Yes.
I) | Did you ever see it done in the dark ?—When it was a dark seance it was not
I / j light. (A laugh.)
I (| But have you seen objects moving about; have you seen the clock go from the
| (I mantelpiece to the table ?—No, never in the dark. I could not see in the dark.
S j Have you ever seen any of the furniture moving about. Have you discovered
|)i that when the lights were lit?—Well, I have discovered furniture in a position
I) I different to what it was when the light was extinguished.
|)! Have you noticed that in the light seances ?—Whenever it has happened.
|) I And you have seen a chair taken up ?—Yes.
j/1 With you upon it ?—No. I have told you that the chair on which I was sitting
! j was pushed a couple of inches forward,
j Was that towards or from Slade?—From Slade. It was done at my request.
1 I saw his feet the whole of the time. I asked that the chair might be moved with
| me upon it a little backward, and it was moved in an opposite direction from
i Slade accordingly.
Have you had any conversation with Simmons about this ?—Never.
Do you know whether Slade and he are in partnership ?—I don’t.
! Which is the showman and which the conjuror ? (A laugh.)
| Mr. Munton: I must object to the queston.
I Mr. Lewis: Well, do you know which is the exhibitor—does Simmons exhibit
I Slade ?
Mr. Munton: Really this is assuming guilt before it is proved.
Mr. Flowers (to Mr. Lewis): I don’t think the cross-examination entitles you
| to put these questions.
! Mr. Lewis: Very well. (To the witness) Then you have never made any
inquiries as to the relations between these two men. You have told us about the
writing on the slate. I don’t desire to go into anything that has happened since
these proceedings—you being their counsel—but have you ever seen a prepared
slate ; that is, a slate with a message already prepared on it, and which message
appears when it is rubbed or wetted ?—No.
Would you be surprised to hear now that that is a very easy thing to do?—Not
in the least.
You don’t think that would account for anything you saw ?—It would account
for a certain proportion of what I have seen at some places.
Supposing a message could be prepared, which, when washed, would appear in
a certain time—what then ?—Well, if it appeared in a certain time, of course that
might account for it.
A clever conjuror could do that ? —Probably he could.
Mr. John Algernon Clarke, secretary to the Central Chamber of Agriculture,
was next examined by Mr. Lewis ?
On or about Thursday, September 14th, did you go to No. 8, Upper Bedford-
place ?—I did. I should like to state what led me to visit Dr. Slade.
Mr. Lewis: I think you must not. Mr. Munton may give you an opportunity
in cross-examination, and then it may slip out. (A laugh.)
Mr. Munton : I must object to this witness’s evidence entirely. Mr. Lewis has
no right to go outside the summons, and the charge therein stated. As Mr.
Clarke does not appear in the summons, I must ask you to rule that his evi¬
dence is inadmissible.
Mr. Massey: I make the same objection. If we are to be called upon to answer
for every act which it is said my client has committed we shall never get to the end of
the case. The prosecution have had the opportunity of selecting the names of those
whom they say have been defrauded. Out of the two hundred alleged to have
visited Slade’s house they have only chosen six, and of that number they have
called but one, namely, the gentleman who has instituted these proceedings. Wo
know very well why they have not selected more, and I contend that, not having
included Mr. Clarke in the summons, we are not now called upon to hear him or
any one else whom they may say has visited at Slade's. Many persons may have
gone away doubting or suspicious, but they do not include them at all.
Mr. Lewis: This case is merely of a preliminary character. The defendants
are not being tried upon an indictment, but are only before you, sir, in order that
you may determine whether or not there is sufficient evidence to send them for
trial. They have been summoned for conspiring to obtain money by divers subtle
devices from Professor Lankester and others, and I am simply giving you evidence
in support of the charge. I might just as well be asked to retire from the case
altogether if I am not to prove it by evidence. It might be contended at the
Central Criminal Court that Professor Lankester was in error, and therefore I
propose to call such evidence as will satisfy you that it is a case that ought to be
submitted to a jury—that the two defendants are common cheats, who have
obtained money from various persons by fraud.
Mr. Flowers: The charge is that they have defrauded Professor Lankester and
Dr. Donkin. Mr. Clarke’s name is not in the summons, and therefore you cannot
examine him to prove they have defrauded him also.
Mr. Munton: Surely the defendants are entitled to particulars as to the persons
the prosecution intend to call. If others are to be admitted, which I object to, we
must have proper notice of them.
Mr. Flowers: The real point is, whether Mr. Clarke is a witness on this charge
or not. My colleague, Mr. Vaughan, is upstairs, and I will confer with him on
the subject.
The magistrate then retired, and on re-entering the court,
Mr. Flowers said: Mr. Vaughan is of opinion that 1 ought not to receive the
(I evidence of this witness, but that we should confine ourselves to the gentlemen
(; who are named in the summons. (Applause.) I must say I had a great doubt
(| as to whether I ought to hear Mr. Massey.
Mr. Lewis: But I intend to give evidence to show a consph-acy.
Mr. Flowers: That is another matter. Then I think you may call him.
) | Mr. Lewis: That is what I am prepared to do.
!Mr. Lewis was proceeding to examine the witness as to what part Simmons
took in the transactions, when Mr. Munton objected, to which Mr. Lewis rejoined
that he desired to show how the so-called spirit agency was obtained.
Mr. Flowers thought the case was now going beyond the bounds of the sum-
1 mons in introducing a new instance of alleged fraud.
Oct. 27, 1876.
154 THE SPIRITUALIST.
Mr. Lewis: If that is the opinion of the Court then I should ask to have the
summons amended by the insertion of Mr. Clarke’s name.
Mr. Munton: That would be most irregular. Let the present summons fye
withdrawn.
Mr. Flowers: When will the case for the prosecution close ?
Mr. Lewis: I will try and close to-morrow, and if necessary, you can issue
a new summons now.
Mr. Munton: We know that none of those whose names are mentioned in
the summons will be called.
Mr. Lewis: Indeed, you don’t.
Ultimately it was ordered that new summonses should issue against the
defendants for the following (Saturday) morning, these summonses to include
other names.
The case accordingly stood adjourned till eleven o’clock this (Saturday) morning.
On Saturday at the sitting of the Court,
Mr. Lewis said he had received a letter from Mr. Massey in reference to the £50
he stated he had received from Mr. Blackburn, and which it appeared was given in
order to supply the press with free tickets. If it was thought worth while the
letter might be read (handing a letter to the Bench.)
Mr. Massey: As the question was put and reported, it conveyed an imputation
of a very offensive character.
Mr. Flowers: I have no doubt about the personal honour of Mr. Massey, and
that would be the opinion of any one who knew him. But I won’t read the letter
till after the case is over.
Mr. John Algernon Clarke was then called and sworn.
Mr. Munton: Upon what case are you proceeding now ?
Mr. Lewis: On both.
Mr. Munton objected to this course as irregular, and calculated to embarrass the
case of his client.
Mr. Flowers was of opinion that the proposed course was quite regular.
Mr. Lewis: A person of the name of Banner Oakley was arrested recently on
one charge and committed on forty, and I am not aware that the law here is
different from that at the Mansion House.
Mr. Flowers: No, it is not.
Mr. Munton: The evidence of this witness was ruled to be inadmissible yester¬
day in reference to the very summons to which it is now directed. In the new
summons there is not a name which was in the old, and I must protest against
this proceeding.
Mr. Massey protested that this evidence should not be used to the prejudice of
his client.
Mr. Flowers: I consider the first summons over.
Mr. Massey: Then I shall ask that the first summons be dismissed.
Mr. Lewis called the attention of [the Court to the 9th of George II., dealing
with the offence of witchcraft and kindred pretences, and providing that if the
accused, if convicted, should, in addition to imprisonment, be periodically taken
to an open market-place, and there obliged to stand in the pillory. (Laughter.)
Mr. Flowers (interposing): But we have no pillory now—(laughter)—and I do
not see that it is necessary for you to proceed with this section, as I think, so far
as we have gone, that the case seems to be clearly under the Vagrancy Act.
Examination of the witness resumed: Did Slade tell you to sit down ?—Yes, he
pointed to a chair, and said “ Sit here.” It was next to one side of a table. Slade
sat at the end on my left hand, with his back to the light. Another chair was at
the far right hand corner, with the back nearly touching the table. This was the
chair that I subsequently saw moved. He tilted the table, and said, “ Perhaps you
would like to look under it.” I observed there were no trusses to support the top
and no deep frame round the edge. It was a table, I should say, that had been
constructed expressly for holding a slate in the manner described by Mr. Maske-
lyne. By Slade’s direction I placed both my hands on the table, nearly ^as far as I
could reach. My body was so near that I could not see anything beneath. He placed
both his hands on the table, and I think touched mine. He then seemed to be
a little agitated, and trembled and shivered. I think I asked him. if he felt any in¬
fluence, and he said that he felt it all over him. (Laughter.) Before I felt
any touches myself some raps were produced on the table. The first rap sounded
as if close to Dr. Slade, and it distinctly jarred the table away from him.
He said, “ We sometimes get a rap away from us,” and then there there was a
loud rap, apparently from below. It did not come from the place where his feet
were, as he sat, as far as I saw, sideways on the chair, with his legs near me.
Were you touched?—Yes, in various parts. Slade said, “ Is it pleasant for you
to be touched—I don’t like it myself, but some people do.”
Did he then show you two slates ?—Yes; one larger than the other. The
smaller one I looked at, and saw that it was clean on both sides.
Did he then say anything about spirits ?—Y es; there was some conversation as
to whether spirits of the departed could be communicated with. A message was
soon produced on the slate, but I don’t think it was signed. It was to the effect
“ that spirits would try to answer questions.”
Did he then hold a slate under the table ?—I am not sure whether the first
message was on the table or under it. Before one of the messages appeared he put,
I think, a bit of slate-pencil on a slate, and placed it under the table. Several
messages came, just a few words, written in such a wretched scrawl, that I could
hardly read them.
Was there any signature ?—I don’t think there was to the short message.
Did he speak to you about his deceased wife ?—After a long message he did. I
looked at the slate and saw there was no writing. Slade asked me to hold it under
the right-hand corner, opposite to him, and I did so. The slate appeared as if
pushed, and when I withdrew it there was nothing to be seen. Then he placed it
beneath the table, and presently, in a few seconds, a message appeared upon it. I
noticed a slight movement of his arm, and a distinct movement of the sinews of his
wrist, exactly as if he were writing.
Was a long message produced ?—Yes, from the larger slate of the two. He
cleaned it with a sponge, and showed that it was clear of writing. Then he placed
it under the table near to the corner. My hands were on the top of the table.
He showed me the side of the slate, and I observed it was waving or moving.
When he brought it up one side was nearly full of writing, and it was in a good,
female hand, and signed “ Allie.” All the short messages were very badly written
indeed. I said, “ This is a lady’s hand,” and he replied, “Yes; the spirit of my
deceased wife wrote it.” I understood that to be his meaning.
Did you inquire whether any message could be obtained from a deceased friend
of yours ?—Yes ; and he said he would try.
What did he do ?—I think there was first a short message on the small slate
saying that she (Allie) would try, or something to that effect,
Did Slade then tell you to write on the slate the name of the person from whom
you wanted a message ?—Yes; and I wrote a fictitious name.
What did he do with the slate ?—He placed it underneath the table, and said,
“Have you lost a daughter?” I replied, “ No; a friend.” I had written the name
of a lady on the slate.
How did he hold the slate ?—Under the table, and I could just see part of his
thumb.
Did you hear any noise ?—Yes; as of a pencil writing on the slate; the same as
in the other instances.
Did an answer appear on the slate ?—As I knew of no such deceased person I
did not expect an answer; but there came one, signed with the initials of the
person whose name I had written. It was “ scrawly writing,” not like the lady’s
hand on the large slate, and very difficult to read. The message was, “ I am
happy, and by your side,—M, W.” (Laughter.)
At the conclusion of the sitting did you ask Slade what was his fee ?—I did, and
he said, “ You will see Mr. Simmons as you go out.” I should like to say that
the table and the chair moved whilst I was there.
We need not go into that minutely; did you see Simmons?—I went into the
front room and inquired the charge, and he said, “ One sovereign,” which I gave
to him.
Did you go there again?—On Saturday morning, Sept. 16th, I paid another visit.
Did you see Slade and Simmons together ?—They were in the reception-room,
where the money was paid.
What did you say to them ?—That I had called because my friends had told
me I had seen nothing but a conjuring trick, and I wished to be certain about it.
I asked to be allowed to sit on the floor, whilst some other persons were taking
part in the manifestations. Simmons said that if manifestations were to be pro¬
duced, it was necessary that a circuit, or a circle, should be made of all the per¬
sons round the table; and, further, that Dr. Slade could not produce any mani¬
festations at all if a dog even were in the room. (Laughter.)
Was Slade present?—Yes; and he said something in concurrence.
Cross-examined by Mr. Munton: You say you wrote a false name ?—Yes.
Was that a new mode of discovering a trick ?—I have heard of it before. I am
not aware that Mr. Massey tried the same thing, or that the messages are not
considered trustworthy as regards identity. I heard Mr. Massey say that he did
not attach any importance to them as far as identity was concerned.
Was the message written when Slade’s thumb was on the top of the table?—Yes.
Was the name written on the top side of the slate ?—Yes ; I took no pains to
conceal it from Slade.
Did he hold the slate in position so that you could see his thumb ?—I could
see part of it.
Therefore the message must have been produced whilst he held it there ?—I
concluded that it was.
Written on the under side of the slate ?—The message was on the opposite side
of that on which I had written the name.
On which side did he place the pencil ?—I cannot say. It was all done very
quickly. I am not sure I saw him place the pencil on the slate. My sole object
was to discover if the name of the person would appear. I thought I was being
deceived, and I wished to test it.
Was the message on the upper side or the under side of the slate ?—I could not
see the slate, as it was held under the table, the thumb being partially under
the leaf of the table, the back part of the thumb being uppermost and visible.
How do you think the slate was supported ?—It- may not have been against the
table at all, as I did not see it. I saw the slate coming up. He did not, that I
could see, turn the slate over. I was watching him. It was broad daylight, and
I was about two feet from him. He may have turned the slate before he brought
it up. I did not keep my eye on the thumb.
You say you were touched in an indecent manner ?—Yes.
Were Slade’s hands on the table when that occurred as you say?—Yes.
Do you believe that the table produced in court by Slade was that at which you
sat ?—Yes.
And you wrote to the Times saying that this was “ a remarkable table, without
any frame under the top? ”—Yes.
Did you ever see a table with flaps, which had a frame under the flaps ?—No; I
think my description was not sufficient.
Did you know at the time that there were flaps ?—I am not sure that I did. My
description sins by omission. (Laughter.)
How long have you been engaged in manufacturing or devising things for con¬
juring?—I have made trick things since I was a lad.
When you wrote to the Times did you mean to convey that this was a “ trick
table ”?—I object to the term “ trick table,” but I said it was an extraordinary table
constructed for the purpose. I did not mean to convey that it was a“ trick table,”
but I did that it was singular in having an appliance under the top which could
have no other purpose than to allow of the slate being held against it by the
pressure of the hand. (The witness then illustrated what he meant upon the
table, showing how, in his view, it might be used.) In each of the sides of the
frame there was a movable bar, and under the middle of the leaf, and fixed to it
there were two small wedges. The witness (illustrating what he said) pointed
out that when the bars supported the leaves they were detained in position by
being forced against the wedges, which acted as stops. When the bar was forced
up along the wedge, the latter acted as a lock, and in his opinion a slate could
easily be supported against the bar used in that way.
Mr. Munton handed the witness a slate, and asked him to show what he meant.
Witness applied the slate, and said that it was too small for the purpose.
Mr. Lewis: Just move the bar two or three times against the back of the wedge.
Witness did so, causing several raps.
Mr. Lewis: That is how the spirits come. (Laughter.)
Mr. Flowers: You don’t mean to call them, I hope. (Much laughter.)
Mr. Lewis: You need not be alarmed at these spu-its. (Laughter.)
Mr. Munton: What is the difference between this and an ordinary table ?
Witness: An ordinary table with flaps would have brackets to support them
hinged to the frame.
Mr. Munton: I will produce a maker to show that this is the ordinary way in
which these common tables are made.
The flap of the table was closed, and the examination was continued.
Would you be astonished to hear from the maker of the table that the principle
on which it is constructed is a common one ?—I don’t think I ever saw a table like
it before. The cross-bar is not ordinary, as the flaps are generally supported by
brackets.
You have suggested that some of the messages might have been produced by
mechanical appliances or. complicated arrangements in the floor ?—I think they
were produced in a simple manner; in a number of ways other than by spirits.
Do you mean to say that any of the messages were written by complicated
arrangements?—Well, no evidence was offered to me of the absence of such
arrangements.
About how many messages did you receive?—More than half-a-dozen, but only
one on the larger slate. The small slate was apparently clean each time before
they appeared; there was no writing visible on either side. Slade nibbed the
larger slate, I think, with a damp sponge or rag. I am not perfectly clear that it
was not with his fingers. There was no liquid on the table with which to damp
the sponge. The slate was distinctly dark after the operation, so that I concluded
it had been damped by something. One side of the large slate was nearly covered
with writing. It was under the table just long enough for any one to write the
message quietly. The slate was about folio size. The writing was in a good
lady’s hand, and the lines were distinctly apart. There were about twenty lines
of writing altogether. I could, I think, write twenty such lines in aboutthree-
quarters of a minute. There were not many words in a line—perhaps eight, or
160 altogether. It might take me considerably more than the time I have stated
to write that number of words.
Could you write them in five minutes ?—I cannot say. My impression was that
the time occupied was sufficient for any one to write the whole of the message.
The slate may have been under the table for five minutes. I was watching the
sinews of Slade’s wrist and the movement of the slate, and listening to the sound
of the writing.
Was the slate brought up immediately the scratching ceased ?—Yes.
And that he did no more than produce the message?—Yes.
You have said in your letter to the newspapers that if a supernatural agency
had been at work you could hardly have failed to have seen it ?—I assumed that it
was all done by trickery. I can tell when trickery is going on without seeing the
process of each trick,
Oct. 27, 1876.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
155
Cross-examined by Mr. Massey: Is it a fact that you rested your belief that
trickery had occurred in your presence by your having got an answer purporting to
come from a spirit to a name which you knew was fictitious ?—That was the most
striking, but not the sole cause.
Were you not on the look-out for some genuine proof of the communication
other than the modus operandi with which those things might be accomplished ?—
1 should like to state that I visited Slade expecting to see positive evidence of
supernatural or extra-natural agency. The result was conclusive of trickery. I
have attended several seances, some in the dark and some in the light, and I have
seen things that I could not account for. I was unable to say how they were
done, and cannot tell now. When at Slade’s I was satisfied there was no evidence
of supernatural influences being at work.
Was any attempt made by Slade or Simmons to extract information from you
respecting your private affairs or friends ?—Not a word.
Or any representation made to you respecting the character of the agency by
which the things you saw were supposed to be produced ?—I do not think there
was any conversation on that point.
Had you any idea when you were in the box on Friday that your name would
be used as one of the prosecutors in this case ?—No; but I have no objection to it.
Are you a partner of Mr. Maskelyne ?—No; and I have not the slightest in¬
terest in his business.
Had you any hand in the invention of “ Psycho ?”—Yes. Mr. Maskelyne and
myself are the joint inventors of that automatic object. Certainly, I am a little
proud of my bantling, but I do not object to anybody finding it out if they can.
(Laughter.)
Slade told you that no living thing could be in the room except the persons en¬
gaged in the seance ?—Yes.
He equally objected to men and animals ?—Yes ; and even, possibly, to insects.
(Laughter.)
ite-examined by Mr. Lewis: When the slate was placed for the spirits, I heard
a noise such as you would produce by scratching on a slate with your nail.
Did Slade show you the turning-bar when he showed you the table?—No.
I did not know till this morning that raps could be produced in the way I have
done with the table. The raps so produced were very similar in sound to those I
heard at Slade’s. When I was touched I was within the reach of Slade’s foot.
Mr. Lewis remarked that the cross-examination of the witness in regard to his
letter in the Times had lasted two hours. He now proposed to call Mr. Hutton.
Mr. Flowers: I do hope the next witness has not written to the Times.
(Laughter.)
Mr. Lewis : I believe he has not.
Mr. Munton: But you will probably find that he has written to some other
paper. (Laughter.)
Eichard Holt Hutton, sworn, and examined by Mr. Lewis: I am a member of
the senate of the University of London, and one of two joint editors and pro¬
prietors of the Spectator. I come here under a subpoena as a witness. I am also
summoned for the defence. I have seen both defendants. I went five times to
their place in Upper Bedford-place. Every time I paid money—£5 in all. I paid
the money to Simmons in each case. On each occasion I went I saw Simmons,
and was shown into a room adjoining that he occupied. Slade sat in the room
into which I was shown, at a table with his back to the light.
Did Slade say anything to you ?—He told me the phenomena were, in his opinion,
due to spiritual agents present in the room. He said the spirit of his deceased wife
was the chief agent in the matter, but other spirits also gave communications. I
saw a good deal of writing produced on a slate, and there were motions of things
in the room.
Any of them far from the table ?—Yes. A chair a gr^at distance from the table
was lifted.
Any raps ?—Plenty. (Laughter.)
You are, like myself, near-sighted ?—Excessively near-sighted. I can see pretty
well with my glass, but not without it.
Mr. Flowers: And you would on that ground be the last man to find out a con¬
juring trick.
Examination continued: I thought the raps made this morning with the bar by
the preceding witness were not like those I heard when in Slade’s room; but I
doubt whether my opinion on that subject would be worth anything. There were
several messages, signed in most cases by “ Allie; ” in others the names of rela¬
tives of my own were mentioned, but their names I myself had previously
mentioned.
Did you see any message written ?—Do you mean did I see a slate-pencil stand
up and write ? (Laughter.)
Yes; that is what I mean. Did you see writing done in that way?—No. I
have seen messages produced after I tied down the slate myself on the table. I
was not then aware that writing might be produced, and then made to disappear
and reappear again as described here. Slade said in the case of his wife’s messages
that they were written by her spirit.
Did you take a locked slate to Slade ?—Yes. I have it here. (Produced.)
What did you say to him when you did that ?—He was alone, and I said I
thought it would be more satisfactory to him to have, as an absolute test, a locked
slate with a bit of slate-pencil placed between the two surfaces, and. if, under
those conditions, the writing took place, I should be satisfied. I said if that Were
done, all the world would believe in him. (The witness here produced the locked
slate, and showed it to the Court.)
What did Slade say to your proposition?—He said he had been much worried
by those kinds of tests in the United States, and by the use ©f all sorts of chemi¬
cals and appliances of many kinds, and that the spirit of his wife had pledged
herself never to write on a locked slate. (Laughter.)
What did you say to that ?—I said there was no occasion to get his wife to
break her word, as there were, as he said, other spirits present, and probably some
of them who had not pledged themselves might be so good as to favour me.
(Laughter.)
What did he say to that reasonable request ?—He said, “ We will ask them.”
He then said, “Allie, Mr. Hutton wants to know if one of the other spirits would
be good enough to write on a locked slate for him, as you have pledged yourself
not to do so,” or some words to that effect.
How did he ask this; by writing on a slate ?—No; verbally..
How did the answer come ?—It came immediately, written in very broad cha¬
racters on a slate he was using, and which we were holding against the table.
The reply was, “ Not one word.” (Laughter.)
Did you express any opinion, or say anything in consequence of that ?—I said
that was disappointing. That was all.
If you had had any idea that the raps and slate-writing and so forth were pro¬
duced by conjuring, would you have paid your money and gone, those successive
times ?—Certainly not.
Cross-examined by Mr. Munton : You took your own slate, I believe, to Slade
on one occasion ?—Yes; and I produce it now.
What occurred with it ?—I had several messages, and two are remaining still.
If you like to look at them you can, but they are difficult to read. (A laugh.) (A
double-hinged slate was handed to the solicitor.) The messages were produced
when the slate was under the table. I saw the edge of the slate, and I heard the
writing in each case. The slate did not go out of my sight. I may say that I was
quite satisfied at the two first sittings ; on the third and fourth I was doubtful;
but on the fifth I was “ reconverted,” believing there was something or other that
could not be produced by conjuring. With regard to the message, “ Not one
word,” there was no motion whatever of Slade’s hand, and I could not conceive
how it was written. On another occasion a great hand-bell, which was under the
table, came out, raised itself, and went over the table, falling on the other side.
I (Laughter.) From the position of Slade at the time I thought this inexplicable,
Slade could easily have read the name I wrote on the slate if he could read writing
upside down.
Cross-examined by Mr. Massey: Did you ever get a message on a slate which
had never been removed from a table ?—Yes ; the slate seemed to be clean and
dry, and a very long message came of which I could hear the lines going up and
down, and when the slate was exposed to the eye the message appeared. I held
the slate down myself, but Slade’s hands were on the table at the time. I heard
the writing throughout. I cannot say that his fingers were simulating the
writing sound. He could not have scratched the top of the slate without my
observing it. Mr. Simmons has never attempted to extract information as to my
affairs.
Ee-examined by Mr. Lewis: Was the sound of the writing on the slate like
this (scratching a slate beneath a table) ?—No; it was more like the writing of
a slate-pencil. Once I thought the sound did not come from' the particular slate,
but as he observed “ Of course it does ; there is nothing else for it to come from,”
the suspicion left my mind.
Did you ever imagine that the message had been previously written ?—No; I
never thought of that at the time.
Did he ever explain why it was necessary to put the slate under the table in
order to get a message ?—He said he had no choice, and we must take it where the
spirits directed. I had always understood from spiritualistic literature that dark¬
ness was necessary for the success of a seance.
The slate, with the messages, was left in court.
Walter Herries Pollock, examined by Mr. Lewis: I am a barrister, and have
chambers in 2, Brick-court, Temple. I know the defendants, and first went to
their place in Upper Bedford-place about July 25. They were both present.
I was asked by Slade to go into a back room on the first floor. A friend was
with me.
Did Slade say anything about the spirits?—Almost as soon as I sat at the
table, he said, “ You can become a medium, for I felt it.” He was seated at the
corner of the table on my right, and with his back to the window. I wrote on
the slate, asking how I could become a medium. It was placed on the table,
and the answer came, “ By sitting with good people.” I don’t think it was
signed. Then I wrote, “ Will Masstonbe successful?” and an answer appeared
in a similar way, “ He will succeed.”
Was Masston a man?—No; it is the name of a book not yet published, but in
which I am interested. (Laughter.)
Was any explanation given why you could not see the answer written ?—No; I
did not ask.
What else occurred ?—A message came from a different part of the table to
where the slate was, and the noise of writing was distinctly audible.
Did Slade tell you who wrote the messages ?—He said they were written by the
spirit of his dead wife, whose name was signed “ Allie.”
Were any other messages produced ?—Two or three others, but they were of no
importance.
. Were you touched at all?—Yes; on the knee, which Slade said was a spirit
touch.
Did your chair move ?—Slade asked us if we did not see a light in one corner of
the room, and when our attention was attracted to the spot a chair was violently
knocked against the table, and fell down again. Slade had pointed towards the
door, and said, “Don’t you see a light there? ” and that had induced us to look
back and away from the table. We saw no light.
Was anything more done ?—The table was raised before the sitting was con¬
cluded. I asked when the chair was raised why the spirits chose that way of
exhibiting themselves, and he replied, “ Oh, it’s just to let you know they are
there.”
How long were you in the room ?—About twenty minutes.
Did you pay anything when you left ?—We each paid a sovereign to Simmons.
When did you go again ?—About a month afterwards, with a friend. The same
kind of thing, the writing on the slate, occurred then. Slade said, “ I claim that
! this is done by spirits.”
! Did a chair move on that occasion ?—Yes; a chair in the same position. My
I friend moved it intentionally when we went in, but Slade took an opportunity of
! replacing it in precisely the same place as before. The message on the second
j occasion was, “These manifestations are not to be confounded with conjuring,”
but it was written so clumsily, and in such an ungrammatical manner, that it was
difficult to make it out.
Cross-examined by Mr. Munton:—How many messages had you on the first
j occasion ?—About six. The first was produced when the slate was held under the
| table, and whilst his thumb was visible. There was some delay before it was
l placed in position, and Slade made a noise by clearing his throat a little. I don’t
| think the table in court is the same. It was a flapped table,
i Did you hear any noise of writing before the slate was placed against the table ?
i No; it seemed to me that the message was written on the surface of the slate next
i the table. I think the writing was done by Slade while he was handling the slate
| under the table.
You had a long message ?—Yes; it was written on a slate which had apparently
| been used. The slate was shown clean and then held under the table, and when
i withdrawn there was a message. I believed at the time that he changed the slate.
I I cannot recollect that he changed his seat after showing the slate. I saw no
I other slates on the table. He may have got the 'slate with the writing on it from
| some receptacle in the table or out of his coat pocket. I do not think that the table
j now shown was the one used on that occasion. The one I saw was certainly
| lighter. The message I refer to was got in a room down-stairs,
i On all occasions you were narrowly watching Slade ?—Yes.
; Did you see any movement of his wrist ?—No.
j Or any movement to show that he took the slate out of his pocket ?—None. I
j think it was quite possible for him to do it without any movement that I did
| observe. Conjurors do as much every day. I never heard any writing till the
| slate was placed in position. I am not sure whether I sat against the frame of
the table or one of the flaps. I did not hear any sound of writing until the slate
I was touching the table beneath. My suspicions certainly were aroused at first,
i On the second occasion I left my friend to make the observations. I did not watch
j Slade narrowly all the time. The same sort of thing occurred on the second as on
j the first occasion. The long message that came up on the second occasion was
utter nonsense. He volunteered the statement “ I claim that this is done by spirits,”
! which I considered as curious.
I Cross-examined by Mr. Massey: Were you induced to go there by any repre-
j sentations of the defendants ?—No. On the first occasion I was suspicious, and
j could not understand how the thing was done. My money was paid neveriheless.
j Simmons made no attempt to get information from me. My impression is that the
writing on the second visit was produced by some mechanical contrivance in the
I table. When Slade’s hands were on the slate the sound of writing was different
to what it was on the other occasions. I have not seen the metallic writing of Mr.
i Maskelyne. I cannot say that the removal of furniture must take place within a
i certain distance of a medium.
• Ee-examined by Mr. Lewis: I considered the voluntary statement curious from
I its audacity. Slade’s legs were sufficiently near the furniture to move it.
| Was the noise made, during writing, similar to scratching with the nail of the
finger?—Yes.
i Did he move from his seat before the slate was shown you?—Yes.
| Did you know of writing which may apparently be obliterated, and reappear be-
i fore you went there ?—No.
i Alexander James Duffield, Savile-row, sworn and examined by Mr. Lewis: I
! am an analytical chemist. I went to the defendant’s place about the 25th or 26th
156
THE SPIBITUALIST.
Oct. 27, 1876.
July. I said something to him about spirits, and he said he hoped we should
have “ a good time.” I think Simmons was present at that conversation. Slade,
a friend of mine, and I then went into a room where the seance, took place. I offered
to pay Slade, and he directed me to go to Simmons, to whom I gave a sovereign.
Cross-examined by Mr. Munton: Prom the beginning to the end of your inter¬
view with Slade did you see anything indicative of trickery?—Not a bit. I
simply thought it was a very Extraordinary thing. Subsequently I heard from, a
friend that Dr. Slade showed his finger nails to prove that the writing was not
done by means of a pencil held under the nail, and then I set myself to inquire.
If Slade had not called the attention of a friend to the closeness of his finger nails,
I should not have set myself to find out how the writing was done. I saw much
that was consistent with its being produced by supernatural agency. A long piece
of pencil was lying on the table. Slade put the slate under the table, and I
suggested that the piece of pencil should be used. Slade took it, but when it was
applied it was shot back onto the top of the table, he remarking, “You see they
don’t require it.” There was certainly nothing to show that the messages might
not have been produced by some strange spiritual agency. One message was
written when the slate was on the table. I think three or four long messages
were written on the slate successively. Slade cleaned the slate each time with his
fingers and saliva. One message certainly was not less than seven or eight lines.
It was writing that could be produced by a slate pencil. I was satisfied with my
visit to this extent—that if there had not been a marked similarity between Slade’s
writing and that on the slate, I should, if I had gone into a desert away from all
newspapers and friends, have considered the writing very mysterious indeed. I
have Slade’s writing in the shape of a note requesting an appointment. I was not
only satisfied but wonderfully struck.
Cross-examined by Mr. Massey: Your relation with Simmons was limited to the
payment of money ?—Yes.
Was any message written on a slate without its being removed from your sight
at all ?—There was a slate on the table, and I heard the sound of writing either
on the slate or the wall at the time when the slate covered a little piece of pencil.
When the slate was raised there was the message. I have heard it said there are
persons so peculiarly constituted that they can see things that others cannot. I
have fancied I have seen lights when in the dark. (A laugh.)
Ee-examined by Mr. Lewis : I left the place as a believer, and am very sorry to
have had my belief disturbed. (A laugh.)
Mr. Lewis informed the magistrate that only one more witness remained to be
examined for the prosecution.
Mr. Munton wished to know if, in the next proceeding, both cases would be
heard together.
Mr. Flowers: I think they are really one case;
Mr. Lewis: Considering the nature of the evidence produced, and the number
of charges we shall have to make against these defendants, I have, upon the part
of the prosecution, to ask you to call upon the defendants to give substantial bail
for their future appearance. (Slight applause.)
Mr. Flowers: They have hitherto appeared, and I shall not alter the bail.
(Applause.)
Mr. Munton thought the application very unfair.
Mr. Flowers said that, as at present advised, he would suggest that the evidence
for the defence should be confined to the issue before them. He thought he should
reject all evidence to prove that at other times and on other occasions Slade did
and could do things that the mere observer could not explain except on the hy¬
pothesis of supernatural agency. He should also like the learned gentleman for
the defence to read the Act of George II., with a view to see whether any man
could, without offending against the statute, earn his living by calling up spirits,
and whether that was not the same offence as if it was merely pretended that the
thing was done.
Mr. Munton: If you limited the evidence in that way, it would be practically
saying that no evidence should be given for the defence. I would call gentlemen
of high respectability to show that the witnesses for the prosecution were
mistaken.
Mr. Flowers : Consider what a waste of resources that must be.
Mr. Munton: No doubt the resources on both sides would be very much
crippled.
Mr. Lewis: Speak for yourself. (Laughter.)
Mr. Flowers would hear both sides on the next occasion as to the suggestions
he had thrown out.
Mr. Massey contended there was nothing to fix his client, Simmons, with a guilty
knowledge.
Mr. Lewis: If it is to be maintained that Simmons was merely the dupe of
Slade, I submit that that is a question for a jury.
Mr. Massey: I apprehend that the learned magistrate will not send Simmons
before a jury unless there is evidence likely to support a conviction. Many
who have investigated the subject have come to the conclusion that there is some
agency.
Mr. Flowers: I shall have to decide according to the common sense, and the
evidence that is generally given in this world.
Mr. Lewis: There can be not the slightest doubt that Simmons made the ap¬
pointments and received the money, and therefore there is some evidence of con¬
spiracy.
After some further discussion on legal matters,
The inquiry was adjourned until Friday next, the defendants being liberated on
bail as before.
Mysticism.—The charge of mysticism has often been brought against
the elder Gladstone, when dipping his pen in the ink of theology.
Some of his earlier Church-articles in the Quarterly are almost unin¬
telligible, and we (Mock) should be very much puzzled even now to
define his religious belief. And it would seem as if the father’s tendency
to mysticism had descended to his son, the rector of Hawarden, for he,
when preaching a harvest festival sermon at Dewsbury the other day,
took occasion to object to “ the over simplification of religion,’’ which,
he said, now prevailed! This certainly is a curious gravamen to come
from the lips of a Protestant pastor, and leads us to fear that the sympa¬
thies of the preacher are rather with mediaeval than modern times.
However, it is only due to the rev. gentleman to say that he strove hard
to do away with the reproach of which he complained, for his discourse
—which was of angels—went perilously near the point to which the
apostle referred when, writing to the Colossians, he warned them against
leaving the simplicity that is in Christ Jesus, and getting “ beguiled
into the worshipping of angels.” Mr. Gladstone spoke of ‘‘honouring
God bjr honouring the angels”; but between “honouring” the angels
in this fashion and worshipping them the distinction is always small,
and apt at times to become imperceptible. We read in Scripture of
“ honouring our own selves,” “ honouring father and mother,’’ “ honour¬
ing the elders,” “honouring the poor and needy,” and of “honouring
the Father when we honour the Son”; but of “ honouring the angels,”
never |—[The archangelic editor of The Mock, it seems, does not
object to honour himself, but has a strong objection to honouring
angels.
ISPIKITUALISM IN LIVERPOOL.
| The Sunday services at Meyerbeer Hall, Liverpool, have been con¬
tinued without intermission since our last notice of them in these
j columns, and have afforded proofs of the increasing interest felt in
Spiritualism by the inhabitants of that town. The platform has been
occupied by Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mr. J. J. Morse, and Mr. Harper;
11 but within the last few weeks Mr. J. Priest has been almost alone in
| the work. During the temporary absence of Dr. Wm. Hitchman, the
president, Mr. Priest, has been a willing and worthy substitute.
On Sunday, Oct. 15th, Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy delivered an address, in
| which she essayed to answer the question so often put by outsiders, in al¬
luding to the teachings of modern Spiritualism—‘ ‘What does Spiritualism
I offer superior to Christianity?” She observed that if by “ Christianity”
was meant the sublime teachings offered in the Sermon on the Mount,
and in the life and example of Jesus Christ, she held that Spiritualism
presented nothing higher; but she also held that the religious teachings
of Spiritualism were bound up with and identical with the rules laid
down by Jesus Christ for salvation, by pure thoughts and good deeds. The
lecturer further submitted that it was vain to attempt a conversion of out¬
siders by relations of personal experiences of the phenomena ; she had
proved by experience that such attempts were only attended with disap¬
pointment, and that testimony as to the phenomena was rarely accepted.
She urged on her brother and sister Spiritualists the desirability of
commending Spiritualism rather by the testimony of their lives than
by the testimony of their lips as to its outward and visible manifestation
in the phenomenal aspect, for in this aspect, she submitted, Spiritualism
could only be proved by personal experience, and by favourable oppor¬
tunities for investigation.
Dr. Wm. Hitchman, who presided, read a portion of the Sermon on
the Mount, and announced that henceforth, till further notice, there
would only be one Sunday lecture at Meyerbeer Hall, and at half-past
six in the evening, instead of seven.
The hall will be at the disposal of friends of the cause during twelve
hours of each Sunday, from 10 a.m. till 10 p.m. It has been further
decorated, and is, probably, now the most elegant meeting-place of
Spiritualists in the kingdom.
Will their Spirits be United 1—A correspondent of the Petaluma
(Cal.) Argus says that in the Red Woods, about twenty miles from
Petaluma, there lives a family who have a female child, about eight
years old, which has two well-developed and perfectly-formed heads
and necks. According to this correspondent, from the necks down¬
ward, to all appearance, it is the body of but one child. The two
heads are called Dollie and Ollie. Dollie has rich brown hair, dark
hazel eyes, and is a brunette. Ollie is a fair skin, auburn hair, and
blue eyes. They can each converse with different persons on different
subjects at the same time, and are well informed and intelligent. Will
their spirit bodies be united in spirit life 1—Meligio-Philosophical Journal.
Apostate Mediums in America.—A Boston (U.S.) correspondent
writes to us:—“ In New York lately several clergymen, doctors, and
others have been made very happy by the feats of a youth of the name
of Bishop, who, by mixing up certain medial phenomena with juggling
tricks and feats of agility, persuades his audience that he can expose
all the phenomena of Spiritualism as frauds. Strange as it may seem,
such men as George W. Curtis, of Harper's Magazine, some twenty of
the foremost clergymen, and nearly all the editors of the daily and the
religious newspapers have been cajoled by Bishop into a belief in his
pretensions. We have had such ‘ exposers ’ in the field ever since the
year 1849, but none of them have attracted so much attention as Bishop,
although several of them were superior to him in their medial powers.
A fellow of the name of Peck, a genuine medium, hoping to raise the
wind by his ‘ apostacy,’ has come out in California, offering to expose
Spiritualism ‘ at two dollars a ticket,’ whereat there is great exultation
among the clergy and the rest. Peck advertises that he will 1 expose
Dr. Slade, the Eddys, the Davenports, and the other humbugs.’
Nothing could be really more confirmatory of the great facts of Spirit¬
ualism than the utter impotency, ever since the year 1849, of all these
mediums turned exposers, to weaken the force of a single genuine
phenomenon.”
The Arthurian Apple.—Dr. Phene, LL.D., F.S.A., read a paper
recently before the Anthropological Department of the British Associa¬
tion at Glasgow, on “ Some Botanical features in Arthurian localities,
tending to identify an Oriental colony in Western France, and the
Sacred Apple, and the Serpent of the Ancients.” After quotations
from the learned descriptions by Dr. Masters, F.R.S., of the Pyrus
cordata, given by him in Trimen’s Journal of Botany for August, 1876,
with a beautiful illustration, by which he identifies a plant, selected by
Hi the author of this paper (Dr. Phene) from the Arthurian locality of
I j Brittany, for botanical examination by him (Dr. Masters), with the
in same plant found only in the Arthurian localities of Devonshire and
I Brittany, in Europe, and which is found to be not indigenous in
Europe, but is indigenous on Mount Elbrus, in North-East Persia, the
I' author entered on the archaeological and popular bearings of the case.
He described his own search, not for the “four-leaved shamrock,” but
for the mysterious apple of Arthurian localities and romance, which
figured in the Hesperides; in the Isle of Fraoch Elan, in Loch Awe,
with its similar traditions of apples, Python, and Python slayer, and
Pythonic earthwork; in “Avalon, the Isle of Apples” (Glastonbury),
with its vast Pythonic earthwork, where Arthur sleeps ; in Devonshire
and Tintagel, a land of apples, and the birthplace of Arthur, with the
Pythonic emblems, described by Dr. Borlase, in Cornwall, and others
| lately found there by Dr. Phene ; and in the Armorican Avalon, near
i | which the find was made, and botanically identified. He concluded the
subject by pointing out the interesting fact that, in every instance, he
found the sacred, or the mythological apple associated with serpent
i legends and serpent devices.
Oct. 27, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEAROHESIN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
. published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G-.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. IL, by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritnal-
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
. ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
■ thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and .Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the l^t Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Sims; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo„
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the Mliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair-
.voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. "
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. ed.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6S.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Take. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A 4s. 6d.
•HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. 0. Barrett and J. H. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. 6d.) 4s..
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10*
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. „
The Seer. ,, HI, „ • »
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . ,
The Thinker. „ V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest ....
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . . >
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . .
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or, Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures .....
s. d.
. 15 0
. 7 8
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 7. 6
. 7 6
. 7 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 7 6
. 2 0
. 3 6
. 3 6
. 7 6
. 3 C
.76
. 2 6
• 3 6
. 7 e
. 8 0
.76
. 7 6
. 6 0
. 6 0
. 2 6
. 3 0
. 7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 8
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autohiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory N otes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
-LT. . ... . . . jL\J \J
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 fi
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S'anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams. Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . r’ 2 0
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . ' 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . . ,36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools .... 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.’
Price One Shilling Each.
1, Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton: 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis ; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR, HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useM Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
AdoRhus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE _OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox, Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrieally through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. B. T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Oct. 27, 1876,
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Eepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit-
malisin, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spritncdist News-
aper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
ondon, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists. but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
OEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrajed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: Colby and Rich. London Spirit-
uali*t Office.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about annual
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
ANNALT HELLO SPIRITISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
PIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Brancn Office.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kabdec. Translated by ANNA
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. 6d.
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, Great Marlborough Street.
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. Tin el as a
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Price 6s.
LA. VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTORIUM. For Organ, 4s.
JOAN OF ARO. French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin¬
cipal Music, arranged by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.R.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price 2s. 6d. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price 5s.
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s.
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Ohidiock Tichborne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Rose, 4s.
A Series of 12 Part Songs, 6d. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
MISS TREHERNE (MRS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
To the Cuckoo, 6d.
JOHN URICH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. CLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien’s
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 6s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie's Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6d.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
benefit of Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the 'above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. 0. Burke.
By Royal Letters Patent.
T3EFLEXIONEN AUS DER GEISTER-
XA) WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Josefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexandergusse. London
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. AMonthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakop, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic.: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Another Work on Occult Spiritism,
By the Author of
“ART MAGIC.”
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten begs to announce that she has
been privileged to prepare for the Press another work by the
Author of Art Magic, entitled
GHOST-LAND;
Or,
Researches into the Mysteries of Occult Spiritism.
Illustrated in a series of autobiographical papers, with
extracts from the records of
MAGICAL SEANCES, &C., &C.
Translated and edited by Emma Hardinge Britten.
This magnificent and thrilling record of spiritual experiences
was prepared for and commenced in the Western Star some
four years ago. Since the suspension of that periodical—
necessitated by the Boston fires—Mrs. Hardinge Britten has
been repeatedly solicited to publish the admired and fasci¬
nating “ Ghost Land” papers in a connected series. The great
demand for another book from the author of Art Magic, the
earnest desire of the subscribers to that celebrated work to
know more about its author, and the interest which exists at
the present hour in philosophical and progressive views of
Spiritualism, combine to induce the Editor to put forth the
present highly instructive and wonderful volume, with the
special view of meeting the above requirements.
Price 12s. Orders may be sent to W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russeu-street, London, W.O.
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the population is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &o.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday, Seance ai
8 p.m,; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only
Leigh spiritualists* association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES.
MR. T. P. BAREAS, F.G.S.,
Begs to announce that he proposes to deliver a series of SIX
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES, in the Lecture Room,
Nelson-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne. on the Thursday evenings
of each week, commencing shortly.
Doors open each evening at 7 o’clock; Chair to be taken
at 7.30.
LECTURE I.—The Worshipful the Mayor will preside.
Subject—“The Scientific Principles involved in raising the
Vanguard, and a criticism of the methods proposed.”
LECTURE IL—Thos. Foster, Esq., Sheriff of Newcastle, will
preside. Subject—“Pneumatics; or, the Laws and Pro¬
perties of Air and other Gases, with remarks on the Navi¬
gation of the Air.”
LECTURE III.—Councillor H. W. Newton will preside.
Subject—“The Structure and Functions of the Brain and
Nervous System, comparative and human.”
LECTURE IV.—Councillor J. O. Scott will preside. Subject—
“ The Latest News from the Stars.”
LECTURE V.—Councillor W. Stewart will preside. Subject—
“ Heat: its History and Philosophy.”
LECTURE VI.—Alderman Gregson will preside. Subject—
“Heat: its Modern Applications.’’
These Lectures will occupy about one hour each, and at the
conclusion of each Lecture, relevant questions will be
answer ed.
The Lectures will be illustrated by diagrams and models.
Terms of Admission by Ticket, to be had of Mr. Barkas, Art
Gallery, and Mr. Blake,’49, Grainger-street. Front Seats, 2s. 6d.
the course; Unreserved Seats, Is. 6d. the course.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF
INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
QUEBEC HALL,
25, Great Quebec Street, Marylebone Road.
October 5th, 1876.
At the Committee Meeting of the above Association, held in
their Hall on Thursday, the 5th inst., it was proposed, “That
at the next quarterly meeting of the Association to be held on
Sunday, November the 26th, a Conference of metropolitan
societies be convened for the purpose of co-operation and
expressing fraternal greetings.” In order that the proceedings
may be conducted in a systematic manner, a meeting will be
held on Thursday, the 19th inst., at the above hall, at 7 p.m.
for 8 pm. All Spiritualists interested are cordially invited to
be present; those unable to do so by kindly communicating
with the secretaries their opinion will be put before the
meeting.
W. O. DRAKE, & G. F. TILBY, Hon. Secs.
RALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts aflecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus¬
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, Members of the
Association have, the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms' for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
formation of circles and conduct of seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on apphcation to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
WHICH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin: Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. O. O. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallacd,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. G. C. Joad; Mr. P.ark
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr..
Slade.—2Jd., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.G.
PRIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is.ljd.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holfcbrn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. ’ George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, Wi ALlen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
