Registered as a Newspaper.]
(Dltef teHIj S^mtualbm m §xifaht.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :w—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque, 246, Boule*
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI : Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, D.S. : 9, Mpntgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 241.—(Yol. X.—No. 14.) LONDON: FRIDAY, APRIL 6, 1877. I Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Poetical Inspiration in the Nineteenth Century 157
Where is the Spirit World ? By William H. Harrison ... 157
-Materialisation Phenomena...     159
Spiritual Impressions in Romish Churches. By Catherine
Woodforde  ... 1     160
From India. By the Rev. Thomas Colley, Chaplain to
H.M.S. A/afo&ar ...    162
The Prophecy of Vala  ... ... ...   162
A Challenge to Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke. By S. C.
Hall, F.S.A. ... ....     ...  163
A Remarkable Seance with Mr. Eglinton. By O. Carter
Blake, Doc. Sci '. ... ... ...  164
The Religious Aspects of Spiritualism. A Trance Oration,
by Mrs. C. L. V. Tappan-Richmond... 164
Correspondence:—Remarkable Test Mediumship—Curious
Allegations   167
Spirit-Rapping among the Ancestors of Mr. P. A. Tay¬
lor, M.P. ...     ' ...     168
Answers to Correspondents      168
Paragraphs:—A Spiritualist at an Hotel, 158; Mr. Tyer-
man, 161; Tall Talking, 161; Mohammedanism, 162;
Spiritualistic Periodicals, 162; Spiritualism in New-
castle-on-Tyne, 163; Spiritualism and the Press, 163;
The Latest Miraculous Cures, 163; Religious Mania,
163; What is the Origin of Psychic Force ? 164; The
Alleged Haunted House in Kent, 167; The Psychology
of Revivals, 167; Seance&t Mrs.Makdougall Gregory’s,
167;; Mrs. Weldon’s Sociable Evenings 167
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
J- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has ah influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art; Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
i-ayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.;! Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George 0. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougali Gregory • the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman ; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ^United States); Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the UnitedlKingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States,'4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.8., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O.     
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
ipirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
jbservers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
■ed edges. Price Is,; post free Is. Vi.—Spiritualist Newspaper
branch Office,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary wifi be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, LOUGHBOBOUaH-EOAD-NORTH, BRIXTON.
Thb object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
  H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sbo.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Leigh spiritualists* association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire^ 
Publishing Office: 13, Red Lion-court, Fleet-street,
London, E.C.
HE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional literature, drama,
music, sports, &c. Chas. L. Wellsden, Editor and Proprietor,
l,Castledine-road, Anerley, S.E.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Of&ce.
The TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R.S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S,8.,and his assistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d.: post free, 6id. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office-
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL dcseriptiOQS of
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
BSTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
HENRY D. JENCKEN' ESQ., M.R.I.
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association, for the Reform and Codification of
Hie Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, I Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Bouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The ohjects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
acts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discuss
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have! the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
formation of circles and conduct ot seances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 8d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
OFFICE OF “ LADIES’ DEBATING CLUB,
102, Bath Street, Glasgow.
RS. M. G. PARKER and other Ladies of
Club are prepared to Lecture on all the social reforms,
particularly the questions of human equality and temperance.
First-class pianists and vocalists. For terms apply to Mrs. M.
G. Parker.
EAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &c., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
A NEW REVELATION.
Just Published, price 12s.
ENGLAND AND ISLAM;
Or, the Counsel of Caiphas. By Edward Maitland, Author
of “ The Pilgrim and the Shrine," “ The Keys of the Creeds, &a.
“ The production of this book was accompanied by pheno¬
mena of such a character as to leave no doubt on the minds of
the writer and others who witnessed them, that it contains a
revelation from the spiritual world which is destined to con¬
stitute it one of ’the world’s Bibles. Written under the con¬
trol of a spirit, claiming to be the same that spoke through the
prophets of the Old and New Testaments, while its immediate
purpose is to afford a solution of the present European com
plication, it sets forth the existence and nature of God and
the soul, the perfection of the whole of the divine existence,
the purpose and method of creation, and the object and cha¬
racter of religion. It further points the place of the present
crisis in thejscheme of the world’s development; the spiritual
relationship between England, Islam, and Israel; the duty of
England in the present crisis; and the high destiny which
awaits her on the fulfilment of that duty.’’—Katfmcf from the
New Preface.
Tinsley Brothers, Publishers, Catherine-street.
Purchasers of previous copies can obtain .the Preface at the
Publishers.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apeil 6, 1877.
u
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
(Established 1878,)
President.
Alexander Oalder, Esq., l, Hereford-square.'West Brampton, S/VW
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-vlUas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs. ,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, w,
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honj^wood, Mrs., 52, War wlck-square, S.W. .... _
Jencken, Henry D., M.E.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmitn-bmld-
ings.E.C, , . , —
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Bogers, E. D.,Rose.villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin It., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandva^
road, South Hampstead, N.W.-
Wason. .Tames, Wason’s-bulldlngs, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-plaoe, Hyde-park, W.,
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W^
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Neweastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, lo, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea. Portsmouth!.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., l, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black*
. heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H...7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W. . .
Glendlnning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Ishara, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.T.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell. Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W\ D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J, J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-rOad, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albahy-sireet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston. E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Straworidge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, SW.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., PosteRestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Wifhall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, SW.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, SW-
Mr, J. H. Andra.
Auditors.
Mr. H. Cook.!
Resident Secretary.
Mr. Morell Theobald.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de TUnion, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
. London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J, W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave.road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratll, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. O. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
SociedadlEspirlta Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gohzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1877.
President.—William Hitcbman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—John Priest, Esq.
Secretary.—tKe. Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Auditors.—Mr. Charlton and Mr. Chatham.
Trustees.—'Kx Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
James Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos¬
worthy, Mrs, Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Mr. Casson, Mr.
Davies, Mr. Foden. Mr. Fowler, Mr. Jones, Mr. A, Lament,
Mr. J. Lamont, Mr. Norris, Mr. Richard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877.
MUs Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London,'W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial .Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
BctGrsUiiTff) Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
fhe Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobltz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh,26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New. York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Rol de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston,
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland. .
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wlttig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.7
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
M. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S .A.
J. H. Gledstanes,Esq., 5,Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq.. 2. Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A,
Luther Colby, Esq., 2, Moutgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A senes of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Bronte, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others., These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 8s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkih, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“ Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book ” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, anji will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,1
Tavistock-square, W.C.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at II punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, hut Spiritualist friends are admitted aa
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &o.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J, J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to he addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
■jl/TDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
IVJL At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
MRS. EANE AT HOME Tuesdays, Thurs¬
days, and Saturdays from three to five o'clock.—34,
Guilford-street, Russell-square, London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
Medical mesmerism and galvan¬
ism.—professor ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years
established) attends patients, and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Camden-hill,
Kensington.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &c. Address, “ Spiritualist,’’ 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should he made as far as possible in advance.
Hanageb—Mbs. A. O. Bubke
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
Spiritualism in the bible identi¬
cal WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.5 W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D,
One of the best books published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, arid a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
1 two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
R
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie. 
►SYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandbe Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mdize. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-message department; contributions by the most talented
writers in 3ie world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
WANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the book and newspaper trade; by E. W
Wallis, 15 St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E.
Volume Tej^. Kumber Fourteejm.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL 6th, 1877.
POETICAL INSPIRATION IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. |
In the best speech delivered during the meeting at Grlas- I
gow of the British Association for the Advancement of | j
Science, the Duke of Argyll made a vigorous attack upon 11
modern literary men. “ See around us,” said he in effect, l|
though not in these words, “the noble monuments which i)
science has raised, the benefits she has showered upon mankind, j
the additions she has made to human knowledge. But j|
where are now our Shakspeares, our Wordsworths, our | j
Spencers, our Byrons, and our Miltons? Where are the j|
literary men whose words now shake men’s minds as the |
wind shakes the branches of the forest trees?” Then he n
uttered a wail over the decadence of modern literature, and I j
that too in no uncertain tones. It was a great and a fair ques- j j
tion to raise—a question of greater moral and religious ||
importance than any other raised at Glasgow except j |
Spiritualism; yet this best speech of the whole meeting ||
attracted no national attention. The reason of the inatten- j >
tion is not far to seek. Scores of reporters were present, ||
some few of whom were literary men, and the great majority j j
not so (therefore all the more influential literary men in j j
their own estimation), and as reporters unconsciously j
lengthen that which pleases them and cut down that which | j
does not chime in with their own ideas, the speech of the |
noble Duke was practically consigned to oblivion. Next ||
morning the telegraphic and other summaries in the news- ||
papers gave in a few lines cut-and-dried versions of the j j
speech, in no way representative of the spirit or logic of the |(
original utterances. Few recorders have studied their duty j|
to society as chroniclers, for which reason the majority of j
newspaper reports are worthless and essentially untrust- ||
worthy, as Spirtualists know full well. I!
But .is the charge brought against modern literature a just i j
one ? Omitting the side issue whether the Duke of Argyll j
would not think it a severe punishment to be made to read j
fifty pages of his eulogised Wordsworth before he went to |
bed to-night, is it not a fact that all eminent scientific men j
are literary men, who do no more nor less than others, j
namely, reveal to men in print the truths which it; is their j
privilege to give to the world ? If so, the world has de- 11
manded a new class of literary men, who are well fulfilling | j
their duty, and the Duke was merely throwing a boomerang | j
with unpractised hands, thereby injuring friends he believed I
himself to be exalting. Jj
The real question at issue, therefore, narrows itself to the j 5
following:—Why have we now, practically speaking, no | j
great poets? For the simple reason that the world does !(
not want them and will not have them; science, with its j
materialism, does all it can to crush inspiration, to reduce j j
everything to mechanics and mathematics; yet the Duke 11
of Argyll, in the self-same speech, was extolling the mur- j j
derers of poesy and of its root, spirituality, as they stood j
before him with blood on their hands. Another influence | (
which is death to the poetical spirit is that of the cramped j j
creeds of the theologians of the Scotch, English, and Irish j |
Churches; real genius cannot bend itself to emblazon | (
incomprehensible and unbelievable dogmas, hence the j j
churches, with all their platform and press influence, look ||
upon free ability as “dangerous;” and true poetry must j(
be free. Then, again, there is the powerful influence of i)
vulgar wealth, guided by those who are unable tb appreciate j j
the poetical spirit, but are fortunately kept in check by the j |
superior power of rank and refinement. So, what between j
scientific materialism, theological materialism, and the j j
materialism of wealth, true poetry is trebly strangled at j
its birth. Once we said to a well-known literary lady I j
who contributed a splendid piece of poetry to this journal^ j j
“ Why do you not send it to one of the monthly maga- I
zines? It is worth high remuneration.” “Oh,” was the .11
reply, “ they don’t care for poetry, and I should only get
a guinea for it. But in any case you are welcome to it.”
What between science, theology, and vulgar wealth, poetry,
religion, and the chivalric spirit have been killed out of
men’s hearts in this country, and, in our opinion, can only
be revived therein by the power of Spiritualism. The
public, already surfeited, are themselves getting sick—
they scarcely know why—of wallowing in the mire of
materialism, and are dreamily and uneasily beginning to
wish for a reaction which the signs of the times indicate to
be setting in like a flood.
WHERE IS THE SPIRIT WORLD %
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Where is the Spirit World? Some spirits, mostly those
who have committed crimes, haunt houses, and are tied more
or less continuously to the scenes of their misdeeds. Others
appear not to be so chained, but to possess great powers over
the conditions of time and space; they exhibit such spiritual
powers, for instance, as are sometimes brought under direct
experimental observation in cases of the clairvoyance of
human beings still dwelling in the body of flesh. Some
spirits again seem to be always within reach of the thoughts
and aspirations of particular mediums.
There is a floating idea in the minds of not a few
Spiritualists that those spirits who are near the earth come
voluntarily upon missions, or are here because their evil
deeds prevent them leaving until their period of atonement
and repentance is complete. This involves also the idea,of a
spirit world 'par excellence, somewhere else, a spirit sphere
proper, the lowest of many others forming steps in the
ladder of the educational progression of the human soul. And
some of the ideas relating to this spirit world are materialistic
in the extreme ; there is a tendency to describe it as invisibly
surrounding this earth at a fixed altitude, and some seers
have given the number of miles it is from us with the utmost
precision, have mapped its rivers, and described its inhabit¬
ants and their modes of life. Unfortunately the revelations
of the various seers do not agree with each other although
founded upon genuine visions, this result being probably
due to the difficulty the inspiring intelligences have in con¬
veying ideas relating to the spirit, to men still clothed in
matter, and surrounded by materialistic conditions; the out¬
come of the revelations thus consists for the most part of
earthly ideas clothing a hidden spiritual truth.
If that Spirit World so much resembles our own, why
, should it be made invisible to mortal eyes ? Why, in the
great economy of nature, should it be placed immediately
outside our own, when any neighbouring habitable planet
would have answered the same purpose ?
My speculation is that all material worlds are the outcome
of spiritual conditions, and that the common belief in matter
is a superstition founded upon superficial data. A mes¬
merist on a platform, as I have often stated, will surround
.five or six sensitives at once with appearances which are real
to them; he will cause them to see valleys or mountains,
or anything he pleases ; they will all see the same thing,
and converse with each other about their observations. Re¬
move the mesmerist—who ignorantly uses a,great power of
which he understands little—from his six sensitives, and
substitute an Almighty Intelligence exerting His will over
a world of human beings in an orderly way, they will find
themselves in a world which is material to them, governed
by fixed laws; in time they may come within the influence
of other laws, and find themselves in a new world, with
other senses, other powers, and other obligations ; this, new
world may be no measurable distance from the first one, th,e
very power of measuring, being itself one of the outcomes
158 THE SPIRITUALIST. April 6, 1877.
of the temporarily experienced mental conditions upon
which the belief in matter is founded.
As Dr. Carter Blake said in effect in The Spiritualist a
few weeks ago, we perceive an apple by the senses of sight,
smell, touch, and so on ; if we had more senses we should
know more of the apple. Remove the sense of sight, and
we know less about the apple; take away smell, we know
still less ; then remove the other senses, and the apple no
- longer has an existence for us except by means of revelations
volunteered by some other intelligent being. After the
apple has gone, and the wide world with it, let other senses
be opened; perhaps we then perceive another world, governed
by other conditions. This hypothesis is to some extent ex¬
perimentally verified by the phenomena of clairvoyance;
the room in London fades from sight, a scene in Birming¬
ham is revealed to the sensitive by temporarily developed
spiritual powers, and the utterances of the seer are after¬
wards proved to have been true. He observed the scene
probably from its spiritual side, perhaps by rapport with
some mind still in the flesh, and described that which thus
came home to his consciousness by the translation of his
ideas into the phraseology of ordinary life. The physicist,
aghast at that which he is wholly unable to explain, denies
the facts; he will not accept them upon irrefragable and
overwhelming evidence; my hypothesis not only admits
them, but tends to clear up philosophical difficulties. If
matter is something altogether different in its nature to soul
or spirit, how was it first formed? Did some thinking
Being evolve this same tangible and alien matter from his
own ideas? Can a man by any process of thinking or will¬
ing cause leaden bullets to fall from his brain ? Where and
how in such case does the law of continuity come into play ?
On my hypothesis there is no solution of continuity.
There are at least as many difficulties in demonstrating
the reality of matter, as vulgarly understood, as there are
in proving the existence of spirit. The assumed ultimate
atoms of matter have never been seen; some think them to
be forces emanating from points; others believe in the
infinitely rigid atoms of Dalton, and Sir William Thomson
has advocated the idea that they are the vortex motion of
an infinitely elastic fluid, the roirbel-beroegung of the Ger¬
mans. But all the members of the Royal Society are agreed
that nobody has ever seen an atom of matter, and that they
do not know the ultimate constitution of an atom. Why,
then, elevate this visionary particle into a God ?
Observation at seances has convinced me that the emotions
of spirits are more intense than ours; that to them, unless
they are very degraded, the things of matter are nothing,
but the facts of the spirit everything. Love is said to be
the light of the spirit world, and men and women who have
not cultivated it here, but passed their time in trampling
on their fellows, may, in the next phase of existence, find
themselves as truly and tangibly in the dark as we should
be physically, without the presence of the sun. All spirit
messages, in all ages, agree in describing the affections as
more permanent than anything else in God’s universe,
therefore they should be kept pure. Their permanence is
visible even here; the body of man somewhat keeps its
form, but, like a fountain, every particle of it is in incessant
motion, every portion of it in a state of change ; when every
particle of the body has been changed, he is the same man
still, and the governing power of that man is still his
affections, be they for good or be they for evil.
My idea is that matter is as real as real can be, in that it
is founded upon immutable law, but that, as something
totally distinct from mind, it is an illusion, a superstition.
I think that physicists have made a mistake not unknown
to young electricians—namely, that of ascribing indications
to an external cause, whereas in reality they are due to con¬
ditions inside the observing instruments. The conclusion
from all this is that there are no worlds but spirit worlds, that
everything in the universe is the result of mental conditions
governed by fixed laws ;’ that matter, as commonly under¬
stood, is an illusion, and that as the distance between two
spiritual or moral states cannot be measured in yards, so
will materialistic Spiritualists never know in miles the dis¬
tance of the world of spirits. The distance between spirits
depends upon the intensity of their affection for each other;
I j they are separated or united by spiritual processes analogous
III to those of crystallisation.
| I These ideas in no way make the universe less real; they
| not only, as heretofore, admit the reign of law to underlie
jij and control the conditions called matter and spirit, but they
! |, take a firmer and closer grip upon law, making law every-
| jj thing and the external manifestion nothing but the inevitable
(||l , outcome thereof. Instead of assuming the world to be built
| i up stone upon stone, particle upon particle, they postulate
jjj that it is built up line upon line, law upon law. And
! | whereas there is very great difficulty in imagining how a
111 senseless clod of matter can in time, by inherent power,
| | evolve an intelligent being, there is no difficulty in imagin-
m ing that the orderly evolution of mental conditions can
jjj surround human beings with a world which is as material to
jjj them, as the creations of the brain of a mesmerist are to the
j j | human beings under his control.
jjj These ideas do not abolish an external world, but make it
jjj a world of thought and of law, of which we know a little
jjj through the limited channels of our sensations. Few have
j I considered how much our knowledge of the external world
jjj depends upon the nature of our senses and physiological
jjj characteristics. If a prism, a triangular piece of glass
ijj with three straight sharp edges five or six inches long, be
j ! taken from a chandelier, and held in bright daylight across
jjj the eyes with one of its edges nearly touching both eye-
jjj balls, and resting against the top of the nose, then by
j j slightly turning the prism a position will be found, in
jjj which from the bars of the window, the tops of the chairs,
j j and from all brilliantly lighted objects between the eye and
j j the window of the room, gorgeous rainbow hues will be seen
j j streaming. There they are, beautiful beyond description,
j j and fixed and motionless so long as the prism is kept in
i j position before the eyes. Had a prism been naturally
jjj fixed from birth behind the lens of each eye, instead of thus
jjj temporarily placed in front, every living soul, from the
jjj cradle to the grave, would se$ solid objects glorified by
j j fringes of resplendent rainbow hues, and any man who
j j endeavoured to prove to his brother observers that the
j j hues which all mankind saw streaming from solid objects
j j were not there but within themselves, would be treated as a
j j visionary by the many, yet the experiment clearly demon-
j j strates that the many would be the real visionaries. Thus,
j j what we know of the outside world depends much upon
j j the construction of the complicated machinery of our bodies,
j j and slight changes in nerve fibres or microscopically small
j j portions of the organism, might present the world under a
j I totally different aspect to the whole human race. I further
j j submit that it is possible that mesmeric laws in constant
j j operation have a still greater influence on our perceptions,
j j Before quitting this subject it may not be out of place
j j to point out how Sir Humphry Davy, the accomplished
j j chemist and physicist, was momentarily changed into an
j j idealist. Nitrous oxide was once administered to him at
j j the Royal Institution; he says that his thoughts began to
j j flow with lightning-like rapidity, many of the deepest
j j secrets of nature were unveiled to his view, and problems
j j which had long perplexed him were solved. He exclaimed,
j j “ Nothing exists but ideas.” Gradually he returned to his
j j normal condition; all that had been revealed to him in a
j j state of supersensuous perception faded from his waking
j I memory, leaving for this lower world but the single utter-
j j ance, “ Nothing exists but ideas.”
jjj A Spiritualist at an Hotel.—“Who’s there?” There was no
j j answer, and the queer noise stopped. “ Anybody there ? ” No answer,
jjj “It must have been a spirit,” he said , to himself. “I must be a
j ! medium. I will try.” Aloud—“ If there is a spirit in the room, it will
j j signify the same by saying aye—no, that’s not what I mean. If there is
jjj a spirit in the room, it will please rap three times.” Three very dis-
j j tinct raps were given in the direction of the bureau. “ Is it the spirit
j j j of my sister ? ” No answer. “ Is it the spirit of my mother ? ” Three
j j raps. “Are you happy?” Nine raps. “Do you want anything?”
j j j A succession of very loud raps. “ Will you give me any communication
j j if I get up ? ” No answer. “ Shall I ever see you? ” He waited long
j j I for an answer to his last question, but none, came. The spirit had gone,
j j j and, after thinking about the extraordinary visit, he turned over and fell
jjj asleep. On getting up in the morning he found that the spirit of his
j (j mother had carried off his watch and purse, his trousers, and his great
j j j coat down stairs in the hall.—American Paper,
April 6, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST1.
MATERIALISATION PHENOMENA. j
When the manifestations through a physical medium begin I
to develope, the first phenomena usually consist of table tilt- j
ing, followed a few weeks or months later by raps, and as j
the power still further increases, solid objects occasionally |
move without being first placed in contact with the medium. |
Small articles are sometimes carried from one part of the |
house to another. When this stage has been reached the j
medium can usually obtain the direct spirit voice by sitting j
for it in the dark ; at this same period musical instruments |
carried by materialised spirit hands are floated around the j
room with ease, and spirit lights commonly enough ac- |
company these manifestations. Later still it will be found j
that the spirits can free the mediums from bonds of any kind 11
in the twinkling of an eye. His wrists may be tied together |'
with tape and sealed with signet rings ; the sleeves of his j ]
coat may be sewed together, and the same garment may j1
be further stitched up the front, but the evidence soon comes i
home to the observers that no bonds whatever will secure a j1
strong physical medium; he can be removed from them
without the seals being broken or the knots unfastened, j
At this stage the materialised hands, which have had so j
much to do with the previous manifestations, but which
previously had never been seen, gradually begin to show
themselves in subdued light; commonly enough they are j
thrust out from the partial darkness under a table near
which the medium is sitting ; this phenomenon is the first j
palpable evidence of materialisation. The temporarily ma- |
terialised hands, when examined, are usually, though not j
always, the duplicates in form of the hands of the medium.
This manifestation is now tolerably common, and can be j
obtained without much difficulty by strong mediums who j
sit for it. One Sunday afternoon recently, at the residence |
of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor- j
square, one of these materialised spirit-hands was seen by j
many of the observers to rise above the shoulder of Mr. I
Eglinton, and to snatch a handkerchief off his head, which
handkerchief had been placed there for the purpose. While j
this was done, the hands of Mr. Eglinton were held by the
sitters on either side of him. Such a manifestation is j
absolute proof of the reality of materialisation, and if it be |
admitted that a hand can be materialised, it amounts almost j
to an admission that a whole body can be materialised also.
As a matter of fact the materialisation of the whole body |
has often taken place. The form calling itself11 John King ”
has sometimes been materialised while Mr. Williams has j
been seated in an open circle, with hands held on both sides.
When we once held the medium and saw the form floating j
high above the table under these conditions, the materialised
face was living, with sparkling eyes and flexible features, but
was the duplicate of that of Mr. Williams, and devoid of John
King’s usual black beard. These materialisation manifesta¬
tions once took place with great power in the presence of j
Miss Florence Cook (Mrs. Elgie Corner), the medium, how- !
ever, being cut off from the view of the sitters, by being
placed in a dark cabinet, from which, when the materialisa- |
tion was complete, the form came out. Similar phenomena
have been witnessed in the presence of other mediums.
Most of these cabinet seances were of an unsatisfactory |
nature, because of the strong resemblance of the forms to the j
mediums, and the absence of evidence on the majority of |
occasions, as to whether an actual materialisation had been j
effected or whether the entranced medium had been sent !
out by unseen powers to personate a spirit. This led j
for a year or two to an elaborate system of test- j
ing. Miss Cook for nearly two years never sat for the j
manifestations without being most efficiently secured j
with knotted tapes, applied by critical observers, who had j
long and carefully studied the most secure methods of tying; j
the knots were sealed with signet rings. At the close |
.of the sittings the medium was found taped and sealed j
as at the beginning, evidence being thus given that the I
manifestations were not imposture, but produced by ab- |
normal powers; still, it was by no means proved that the
medium was not sometimes taken out of her bonds and put |
, back again. To decide this point, Mr. Cromwell Yarley
devised the plan of sending a feeble current of electricity |
through her'body all through the sitting; and while the j
materialised form was outside, the electrical resistance, ;
! indicated by a reflecting galvanometer, showed that the
| current was still passing through the body of the medium,
! consequently that she was inside the cabinet. Mr. Crookes
I and others verified these results, and on one occasion,
through the mediumship of Mrs. Fay, materialisations were
obtained in our presence under electrical test conditions;
several well-known Fellows of the Royal Society, and Mr.
Serjeant Cox were also among the observers.
The forms come out robed in white drapery. If the
mediums are searched before the sitting begins, no such
drapery is found about them, neither can any be found
upon them, after the sitting is over. When small pieces
of it have been cut off and given away by the forms,
they have usually, but not always, proved to be very
common stuff, such as can be purchased anywhere; pro¬
bably this drapery is brought into the cabinet for the pur¬
poses of the seances, and carried away again afterwards;!
where it comes from or goes to has not been found out.'
Little or no information is given upon these points when
the spirit-forms are questioned, and that little is not always
trustworthy.
Whilst at a small number of seances absolute evidence has
been given of the duplication of form of the medium, evidence
has also been obtained that sometimes the entranced medium
has been sent out dressed as a spirit, and that there has been
no materialisation at all. At the great majority of what are
called materialisation” sittings, there has been no evidence,
either in the one way or the other, consequently such sittings
have been waste of time, devoid of all evidence of the pre¬
sence of spirit power, and serviceable only as a tax upon the
| amount of faith of the observers. The fact of materialisation
| is in itself so astounding that it can only be accepted on the
best of evidence, consequently the medium should always be
placed under test conditions. This is very seldom done, the
result being that the time of the observers is wasted, and
that unbelieving observers have their prejudices against
Spiritualism increased. No seances do so much harm to
the observers, to the medium and to inquirers, as those held
for materialisation without the medium being placed under
strict test conditions; such sittings always prove miserable
failures, and permanent sources of dissatisfaction. But under
any circumstances the fact of materialisation is so tremendous
that with the best of evidence it cannot be readily accepted
by inquirers without they are first gradually educated up to
it by experience in simpler manifestations, consequently
whether under test conditions or not, such seances do a great
deal more harm than good when any attempt is made to use
them for proselytising purposes. Elementary unanswerable
phenomena in the light, are better than alleged astounding
manifestations not given under test conditions.
The beings who produce these strong physical manifesta¬
tions are seldom trustworthy and will sometimes play impish
tricks upon their best friends ; it takes a long time to dis¬
cover this, but after attending scores upon scores of ma¬
terialisation sittings, the knowledge has been unwillingly
forced upon us. We have never heard a single utterance
from these forms worth recording upon its religious, moral,
or scientific merits, yet when the same mediums sit for other
| than the physical manifestations, revelations of high cha¬
racter may be obtained through their organisms by trance,
| automatic writing, or clairvoyance. We have known—while
! the medium has been under strict test conditions—spirit-
i hands and arms to carry about a mask which had been im¬
ported into the cabinet by abnormal means, and to attempt
j therewith to delude the spectators into the belief that they
j were observing an immortal being from the next world. It
j is now high time that materialisation mediums should sit as
j Dr. Slade does, for manifestations without any cabinet; they
j might be allowed to lie upon a sofa, in a dim light, at one
j end of a room, whilst the spectators sit at the other. Spirit
| hands can be produced under these conditions, and by prac-
| tice doubtless spirit-forms likewise.
While the manifestation of the materialisation of a living
I hand is common, it indicates that the head governing the
j actions of that hand can be materialised also, but presum-
j ably at great expense in the shape of vital energy drawn
I from the medium. Either the manifestation should be pro-
j duced at any cost, or materialisation seances not under test
ii CQnditions stopped altogether.
160
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 6, 1877.
SPIRITUAL IMPRESSIONS IN ROMISH CHURCHES.
BY CATHERINE WOODFORDE.
With the King’s Chaplain for my cicerone it was my
privilege to pay my first visit to St. Peter’s, where the
grand altar is overshadowed by a bronze chair of gigantic
dimensions, containing within it a very old wooden chair, of
senatorial fashion, thickly inlaid with ivory, which is
believed by Catholics to have been the episcopal throne of
St. Peter and his successors. It is, however, really probable
that it may have been in possession of the senator Pudeus,
with whom the Apostle lodged, and he may, therefore, of
course, frequently have sat in it. The great bronze chair
is upheld by colossal figures of the four fathers of the
Church: Augustine, Ambrose, Chrysostom, and Athanasius.
How imperatively this declares to the world that Roman
Catholics here locate par excellence the Church of Jesus
Christ, at the head of which stands Peter, the Rock, and,
following him, the Popes, his successors, to whom, they
teach, has been delegated that headship as custodians,
fathers, princes of the Church, and even representatives of
the Divine Will to the faithful. According to Protestant
ideas this is arrogating too much to a church which has no
right to take to itself alone an honour perhaps never meant
to be so conveyed. Be that as it may, here is embodied,
and constantly kept before the eyes, of its votaries an idea
not devoid of grandeur ; and the highest artistic geniuses of
various periods have striven to give it appropriate external
expression in the most indestructible materials to be pro¬
cured. As if still further to preserve the image of per¬
manence and indestructibility, beneath the very dome of
this wondrous church are enshrined the mortal remains of
Peter—that. Rock consecrated by the words of Jesus.
Gazing up into the dome you behold the words, in mosaic
letters six feet long: “ Tu es Petrus, et super bine petram,
cedijicabo ecclesiam meant, et tibi daw dares regni ccelorum.”
Around this shrine burn perpetually eighty-six lamps of
gold, emblems of the everlasting light of faith. But all
these externals, made as imperishable as the hand of man
can make them upon this ever-changing material scene, are
but the effects of the spirit contained in those words, which,
glowing forth, has created unto itself these forms as its fixed
symbols to man. Without the words and the spirit con¬
tained in them, these material embodiments had never
existed, and they thus form one of those myriad links be¬
tween man and his God-Saviour, to draw his thoughts
perpetually upward to Him who pronounced them. It is
the spirit we revere, the externals are but the shell which
preserves it. The idea presented is the ever-abiding presence
of Jesus with His Church, and the never-withdrawn watchful
care of Peter, continually represented and brought before
the minds of believers in the persons of the Popes, named
his successors.
It is true that the ignorant and fanatical are ever prone to
render worship to shadows, and, enveloped in their own
narrow darkness, fail to perceive the spiritual light shed
from mere symbols; and it is true that men sunk in the
grossness of the flesh materialise everything and are
reduced to idol-worship. Hence the humble, devout, but
uneducated Catholic, to whom prayers in his Church are the
very staff of life, making the rounds of this vast temple,
kneeling at this altar, and that shrine, kissing fervently the
bronze toe of the statue of Peter, and blessing himself with
holy water, may give to the images before his eyes some¬
what of that affectionate reverence his spirit also lifts to the
great unknown God ; but, nevertheless, let us do justice to
the fact that not only is here embodied a beautiful uplifting
idea, but a spiritual reality is also most certainly here
existent. It is most certain that if . the spirit of Peter, the
trusted follower of Jesus, abides anywhere on this earth,
or pays visits of mercy and helpfulness to struggling
brethren in the flesh, that spirit, or being, on earth called
Peter, must be drawn and attracted here, in obedience to an
inevitable spiritual law* , Apart from all religious. pre¬
judices, apart from all the errors the Romish Church may
have drifted into, the one fact of the possibility of spiritual
presences and of the helpful assistance rendered when they
are sought, cannot be denied by Spiritualists; and, indeed,
an uplifted and refined medial power introduces one sensibly
[j by sight and hearing into the very presence of the spirit
I personality.
ij . Spiritualism has been decried, hated, spurned, spat upon;
[| and so has the Romish Church—the one Church on earth
>j where Spiritualism is in reality practised, and is the
ij heart and core of the belief Indeed, as a Romish
|j priest acknowledged to me the other day, “ It is
! the foundation of the Church.” The devout Roman Catholic
| believes in the actual Divine Presence of Jesus, and with
simple faith according unto him infinite power, trusting in
| the infinitude of a love which will e’en descend into smallest
I things for love’s sake,—-they believe that He is miraculously
| present in the small shrine set up on their altars in His
| honour. They cherish His promises, , they worship Him with
i a love unsurpassed by any other church—a love fervent,
| adoring, self-sacrificing. The tabernacle where the Divine
Presence is supposed to abide, becomes to them a sacred
centre from which the Divine Spirit flows forth in blessings.
Is it possible for Spiritualists to doubt that the simple faith,
| the fervent love, the constantly outpouring prayers fail to
| bring what is sought? If so, there is no God, no answer to
j prayer, and Spiritualism itself is a gross fallacy and delusion.
It is quite possible that with many of the most ignorant this
belief descends, and manifests itself in the form of idolatrous
worship; the shadow, the external, being worshipped for the
substance, the internal spiritual; but there is no doubt that
1 this simple faith, handed down in the Church through so
| many ages, is all powerful to bring that Divine Presence.
| “ Ask and ye shall receive/’ is as true now as ever, and is
| the one only essential law in Spiritualism; seek God and
1 you will find Him; seek spirits and they will come at your
! call; seek any gift whatever with simple faith, trust, and.
j earnest eff ort, and your labour will be crowned with success
j according to your powers of reception. God gives himself
j to all according to the measure of demand, and the power of
I reception; and His ministering spirits, filled with divine
| love, and actuated by the divine helpful spirit of mercy; give
| too of their angelic gifts from Him according to the way in
| which we seek. The Roman Catholic Church is full of such
faith in all its teachings and observances; an actual presence
| is believed in of Jesus, Mary, or the Saints; and from the
I intense fervour of this faith, and the ardent prayers offered
] up in these shrines, an actual ever-abiding presence is there,
| and is sensibly experienced by the spiritually minded, or
I those gifted with medial powers. It is this indestructible
j spirit ever answering to earnest prayer which elevates into
| ecstasy, giving visions, or the power of performing what are
| called miracles; this earnest faith acting upon susceptible
minds subdues irreverence to outward respect, fascinates,
enthrals, a^id finally converts. The soul within will some
day, when circumstances are favourable, answer to the call
| —“Man know thyself, that thou art spirit—angel come,
| prepare thyself, and win thy birthright! ” And often do
| these favourable circumstances, aided by the powerful spirit
| influences, find themselves at the foot of Roman Catholic
altars.
And so God will ever be with us if we build and prepare
| the shrine, even if it be only within our own hearts, with no
| external symbolic abiding-place, or if only in the simple bed-
| chamber. He will be there where we seek. In the temple
of nature, by the roaring deep, or in the eloquent stillness of
the forest, or mountain-top, or in crowds of human beings,
who in another manner proclaim his greatness. But the
purer we keep our shrines, the more devout and fervent our
prayers, the more. trusting and perfect our love, the more
powerfully will the spirit presence of God and his angels be
| felt; and we must not deny that presence to any of our
] brethren, even if they do not follow the paths we have chosen.
A medium may comment curiously upon the different
| sensations awakened by the spiritual atmospheres of the
| different churches; and the question arises, why, in the vast
| temple of St. Peter’s, does one feel less disposed to piety, why
| does one feel an atmosphere so disturbed, and in some
| respects painful, that you would fancy yourself (if you closed
| your eyes^ in a spot not devoted to the worship of God, and
| with clairvoyant vision would dread the sight of some dark
| form representative of evil. You wonder the same heavenly
calm, and sense of utter holiness in the place, does not
* descend upon your spirit as in other quieter, and more
April 6, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
161
secluded churches. There are altars as beautiful, which in
statues and paintings appeal as eloquently to the heart; the
same divine voice calls out to you from these altars; but you
sadly feel yourself somehow further off; you have a sensation
of suffocation, heaviness of the limbs, and a feeling as if
wrapt round, and compressed by myriads of spirits gathered
like a dark cloud about you, from which, in the pauses of
conversation you send up ejaculatory prayers for help, for
light to see and know what it is ; and at length the majestic
radiant form of the faithful spirit-guardian. stands at your
side, with the words, “ I am come to relieve you, my child;
you will suffer no more ! ” And afterwards complete peace,
calm, easy breathing, and happiness are-felt. Then the
words come by the inner hearing to the mind, whilst the eye
takes in the colossal beauties of this glorious house of God,
and passes athwart the groups of nondescript sightseers of
all nations and creeds. K You have felt the disturbing
influences brought and left by the various-minded visitors
who enter here as to a show place; many who have no
respect, but enter with bigoted prejudices, hatred, and scorn
of a faith to whose spiritual beauty they are blind; who
keep their thoughts fixed upon the deformity of error, and
forget the immutable truths underlying all forms of religion,
and whose hearts are devoid of charity and brotherly love.
There are some devout worshippers and believers, but the
greatest number of the daily visitors are mere sightseers, and
the atmosphere of the place, to your spiritual senses, is dis¬
turbed as if filled with conflict and discord.’,
But in St. John Lateran, as the heavy leathern curtain
at the door drops behind you, all at once you feel shut into
a calm, cool, placid spot, so quiet, so appeasing, so up¬
lifting, that it might be the portico to heaven; and you
walk forward almost unconsciously in reverential prayer.
Fast descend upon your soul heavenly feelings of wrapt
worship, and, unable to resist the impulse, you lall on your
knees in the midst of a chaunting group, who are following
the priest in his white robes, attended by boys also in white,
and bearing lighted candles. There are poor old women
and men in the group, the grand and the richly-dressed are
absent; and all are singing with simple fervour in the Latin
tongue. You do not know what service it is, but, filled with
reverential sympathy with these poor, devout worshippers,
and overcome by the powerful spiritual influences of the
place, you bow your head, and humbly pray to God to open
the doors of heaven to you too. Is it strange that angel
forms descend and wreathe themselves like celestial flowers
in loving groups about the altar, whilst a glorious light
beams from it, and that child-like forms, with happy
smiles, descend the steps of the altar, and mingle with
the worshipping groups bearing various objects m their
hands, typical of heavenly gifts, and come at length to
your side too, with sweet loving looks, and you weep because
of your great unworthiness—and in the midst of all seems
to stand the gentle, meek Eternal One, with outstretched
bleeding hands and thorn-crowned brow, and is breathed
over your heart, the words reach you—“ Come unto me all
ye that labour and are heavy laden.” Your face is flooded
with tears, for you think that in the sore trials of life
you have wandered too far away from that gentle voice.
Is this strange? Not strange in a place where a pure
presence is invited by constant earnest prayer, and
an unchangeable faith, that it will be accorded. The
presence is not denied here any more than of old,
in the temples of the Jews any more than to the faithful
seeker anywhere; whether in the prison cell, the humble
cottage of the labourer, or the aeawce-room in the house of a
pious Spiritualist, set apart, and consecrated to the noiseless
visitors from the upper world. The place of worship, where-
ever it may be, is the gate of heaven on earth, wherein
angels may meet with mortals, mingling with them in
brotherly love, for holy and strengthening communion. And
to whomsoever is given the open vision, scenes of heavenly
beauty and import may be revealed. Even in the disturbed
atmosphere of St. Peter’s, whose precincts become almost a
public highway for the innumerable visitors from all parts of
the globe, and which encloses within its walls almost a world,
even here visions of beauty are not denied. The lovely ones
who have earned their martyr crowns, may be seen trans¬
figured with the beauty of heaven, and take a delight,
| springing from heavenly love, in giving some spiritual gift
| of peace, comfort, tenderness, mercy, or strength to the toil-
| ing brother, or sister below, offering in simple faith a tearful
I request. With loving tenderness, eager to help, the beauti-
| ful forms may be seen bending over and enveloping in celestial
; auras some poorly-dressed man, or woman fled into the
| church for the rest, peace, quiet, and refreshment denied in
I the crowded place of earthly toil. Beside these, stately proud-
| looking priests clad in purple—who cross the nave to kiss the
| toe of the bronze statue of Peter sitting holding the keys,
] and who bend and kneel with dignified reverence before
| altar, and shrine, as if covering themselves with a glory in
i their church in the very face of denying strangers—beside
| these glide the beauteous forms of angel-guardians, and
| attendant spirits; some firm and strong in bearing, with
| looks of angelic wisdom as if they had fathomed the mysteries
| of the universe, but with a calm, beautiful patience to bear
| with human weakness. Others of the softer feminine type,
| floating with a wreath-like gracefulness, and seeming to wrap
I themselves about their charges. On all sides, multiplied as
I frequently as space will permit, in every form of pictorial
I and statuesque representation, are images of the Saviour of
| man, in the various incidents of His life on this planet,
I which to some men is a never-failing fountain of divine in-
| spiration, and to others only a subject of learned disputation.
| Overwhelmingly do all these external symbols remind one of
| the ever-abiding presence of Jesus with those faithful unto
| Him; but like a mighty voice does His spirit-presence speak
| here to the soul; and although we know that not here only,
I but everywhere may that presence be felt, yet it is delicious
| to feel it brought so sensibly to one as here in this vast
i temple dedicated to His praise and worship. Upraised on
| high, radiant, and with a lovely majesty, and gentle bene-
| ficence, surrounded by a glorious company of angels, He sheds
| down His divine influences, or sometimes descending passes
| through the groups of worshippers, bestowing especial gifts;
| for the humanity is assumed as a garment to cover the divine
| glory, and enable the God-spirit to more nearly and intimately
| reach man; and thus at will may this Glorious One come
I amongst us. Is not this true ?
Does not Spiritualism teach it ? That Spiritualism which
j is in all religions does,—and the soul of man does. How
I many a poor dying soul cries out “ I see Jesus !” “ Jesus has
| not forgotten me, He comes with His angels for my soul!”—*
| etc., etc. Are these delusions ?
Romo, March 16th, 1877.
! Mr. D. H. Wilson has left Algiers, and will return to London after
visiting several places on the Continent.
Mr. Tyerman.—It is with extreme regret that we have to announce
) that our eloquent and highly-talented friend, Mr. Tyerman, the father
of public free-thought in this city, has been seriously ill. The great
fatigue consequent on overwork in pursuit of his great mission had for
some weeks been affecting his health, and his indisposition culminated
on Saturday last in the bursting of a blood-vessel, which prevented his
carrying on his ministrations at the Victoria Theatre on Sunday evening,
the duties having been kindly undertaken by Professor Hamilton. Mr.
j Tyerman’s many friends will, however, be happy to learn that he is
rapidly recovering, and will no doubt be able to resume his lectures on
Sunday evening next, when he purposes delivering an address of a new
character, at which he will be sure to receive the hearty sympathy and
! support of a crowded congregation.—The Satirist (Sydney), Dec. 15th,
! 1876.
| Tall Talking.—A newspaper called Vulcan, published in Barrow-
in-Furness, contains a leading article abusing Spiritualism, also another,
i from which we make the following extract, as a specimen of the literary
food the dwellers in that benighted region sometimes have to swallow:—
“ We have frequently been compelled to listen to the sharpening of a
saw; we have lived in close proximity to a man who was learning to
| play the bagpipes; and every morning, as we trudge to business through
some of the loveliest bay and mountain scenery which this or any other
country can produce, our meditations are disturbed by the sonorous
| groans of ‘ buzzers,’ the vigorous clanging of time-bells, the excruciating
shrieks of steam-whistles, and the unearthly yells of other infernal
engines of acoustic torture, which pour forth their black-throated un-
[ i utterableness as though a concert of ‘ goblins damned ’ were belching
j out a ‘ blast from hell’ to frighten the morning star from its cerulean
II throne, or scare the sky-lark as it sets earth’s morning prayers to music
and wings them upward to the gates of heaven.’’ The writer perhaps
j thought it clever, and after penning the lines-—
Felt adown the small o’ the back,
That gentle warmth which creeps upon ns
When we know that we have said a good thing,
Although the vain world
1 Never can, and never will.
162
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 6, 1877,
FROM INDIA.
EY THE REV. THOMAS COLLEY, CHAPLAIN TO H.M.S. “ MALABAR.”
Delhi, Agra, Cawnpore, Lucknow, Allahabad, and
Benares (Poonah and Bombay in my first visit), are names
that carry me in spirit to the places visited in India, from
which I am now for the second time returning.
I have seen a good deal of Indian jugglery at certain of
these places, but with one solitary exception it was all mere
conjuring.
The Mango tree business I had heard so much of was
disappointing. I suspected how it was done, and by paying
a few rupees was quietly in my room at the bungalow very
readily shown that not particularly clever trick.
Rupees in India will do anything, and afford a very good
test as to what is genuine occult power, and what mere
sleight of hand, the latter being marketable for a considera¬
tion, so that you may purchase the juggler, bag and baggage,
knowledge of tricks and apparatus and entire stock-in-trade
for the
everlasting
rupee. But when you light, as in the
solitary instance I refer to, upon what looks the real thing,
then it cannot be told, purchased or sold, which is dreadfully
baffling.
“ I&port a Fakeer,” some one has said; but I question
the utility of it even if it could be done; for the Mussul¬
man Fakeer is not generally accredited with abnormal
powers greatly in excess of ordinary mortals, while at the
same time he is very unpleasantly extraordinary in other
matters not so interesting ; and the Hindu Fakeer in whom
occult mystery is more native, being, moreover, quite as un¬
savoury as the other, could not cross the Kala Pawnee
(black water) without losing his caste than which he would
sooner lose his life.
Still I think Indian Spiritualism ought to be studied and
thoroughly gone into; and there are many officers now in
India who, as Spiritualists, might form a committee for its
systematic investigation, and transmit results to us in Eng¬
land that might be very useful and suggestive. I only re¬
gret that I had not longer time in India to go into the
matter deeper.
* Malta, March 21,1877.
THE PROPHECY OF VALA.
[The Prophecy of Vala is founded on the Scandinavian mythology. Odin,
the great All Father, is the sovereign power of the universe ; Thor, a lesser
god, of whom it is said, “his mighty hammer smote thunder out of everything.”
Baldur was a son of Odin and Frigga. He was slain by Border, his blind
brother, who was persuaded to the act by Lok4, an evil spirit, corresponding
to the Hebrew or Christian devil. The Valkyrien were the genii of the battle
field. The three Nornen were the Fates who watered the tree Yggdrasill,
at whose roots it is said that a dragon was constantly gnawing. The Heims-
kringla was the circle of the universe. Vala was a seeress, or prophetess, who
was summoned from the dead by Odin to tell of the fate of Baldur, but on
her appearance refused to do so, and to the astonishment of all, prophesied the
death of all the sons of Odin, at the day of Ragnaroc, which corresponds to
the day of judgment, with the exception that it was also the day of reconstruc¬
tion, or renewal of the world. The prophecy of Vala, as given in the old
Icelandic Edda, has been used with perfect freedom, to present the idea that
Good, though apparently overcome of Evil, should ultimately triumph.—
Explanation by Poe.]
The followina: verses were given through the trance
Mohammedanism.—He described the howling and dancing dervishes
of Stamboul, and said that some of them, as he witnessed, possessed
remarkable mesmeric power, stanching the flow of blood from an ugly
wound by a touch, and healing a palsied arm. They claim miraculous
power, and agree with the Shakers and Quakers that divine inspiration
has not ceased. Mohammedans reject the doctrine of the Trinity, and
that of the atonement, as irrational, and claim that every sin has its
punishment, from which there is no escape. They believe in seven
hells and seven heavens, shading insensibly into each other, and the
difference between the highest hell and the lowest heaven is of the same
nature as that between any two heavens or hells. They are very strict
in honesty and temperance, except in the - cities, where they have S
become somewhat demoralised by contact with European Christians.—
Report of J. M. Peebles' Lecture, Religio-Philosophical Journal.
Spiritualistic Periodicals.—In the year 1869 there was no news- j
paper connected with the Spiritual movement in this country ; we had 1
then nothing but monthly periodicals, filled with essays of a magazine I
character; shorthand or other reports of meetings, and records of the
ordinary current events of the day, were almost entirely unknown.
The consequence was, that no reports were published of the long series
of Gower-street conferences then held in London, at which psychological
facts of the utmost value were made known by Mrs. Hardinge, Mr. A.
R. Wallace, Mr. Luxmoore, and others; and the speakers complained
from the platform of the want of a newspaper in the Spiritual move¬
ment. For these reasons The Spiritualist was first published, in 1869,
as a fortnightly journal, with the announcement in the first leading
article of its first number, that it would be brought out weekly as soon
as such a course was considered to be reasonable. The following is an
extract from that article:—“Spiritualism in England has long been
represented by three periodicals, all published monthly, namely, The
Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, and Daybreak. The Spiritual
Magazine was first published in January, 1860; Human Nature in
April, 1867; and Daybreak in June, 1858. The Spiritualist, issued for
the first time this day, is not started for the purpose of competing with
the three journals just mentioned, but is intended to occupy new
ground, and to meet a want as yet unsupphed. At the Gower-street
conferences last winter, several of the speakers mentioned the want of
reports and records of public meetings connected with Spiritualism, and
one chief object of this' new journal is to chronicle the proceedings of
such assemblies. Another feature of The Spiritualist will be its scien¬
tific character. ... At first this journal will be published fortnightly, to
‘ feel the ground,’ before its transformation into a weekly paper—a step
which, together with other improvements, is likely to be taken before
long, should all go well.’’
mediumship of Miss Lizzie Doten, of Boston, U.S., and
were taken down in shorthand at the time. They were
stated to he given through her organism by the spirit of
Edgar Allan Poe, and not only do the utterances partake of
his style, but they display here and there a clearer recogni¬
tion of fundamental religious principles, and are in that
respect superior to anything which he wrote during his
earth-life•
I have walked with the Fates and the Furies ’mid the wrecks of the
mighty Past,
I have stood in the giant shadows which the ages have backward cast;
And I’ve heard the voices of prophets come down in a lengthening chain,
Translating the Truth Eternal, and making its meaning plain;
Backward still, ever backward, ’mid wreck and ruin I trod,
Seeking life’s secret sources, and the primal truths of God.
“ Tell me,” I cried, “ O Prophet, thou shade of the mighty Past,
What of the Truth in the future ? Is its horoscope yet cast ?
Thou didst give it its birth and being, thou didst cradle it in thy breast—
Show me its shining orbit, and the place of its final rest!”
A sound like the restless earthquake i A crash like the “ crack of doom ”!
And a fiery fulmination streamed in through the frightened gloom.
I stood in the halls of Odin, and the great All Father shone
Like the centre and sun of being, ’mid the glories of his throne;
And Thor with his mighty hammer upraised in his giant hand,
Stood ready to wake the thunder at his sovereign lord’s command.
| “ Ho, Thor 1” said the mighty Odin, “ our omens are of ill,
I For the dragon gnaweth sharply at the roots of Yggdrasill;
j I hear the wild Valkyrien, as they shriek on the battle-plain,
I And the moans of the faithful Nomen, as they weep over Baldur slain,
j A woe to the serpent Loke, and to Border’s reckless ruth,
! For Goodness is slain of evil, and falsehood hath conquered truth!
I Now call thou on mystic Yala, as she sleeps in the grave of time,
I Where the hoary age hath written her name in a frosty rime;
I She can tell when the sun will darken, when the stars shall cease to bum,
When the sleeping dead shall waken, and when Baldur shall return.”
A sound like the rushing tempest, and the wondrous hammer fell,
And the great Heimskringla shuddered, and swayed like a mighty bell.
There were mingled murmurs and discords like the wailing of troubled
souls;
Like the gnomes at their fiery forges—like the bowlings of restless ghouls.
Then out of the fiery covert of the tempest and the storm.
Like a vision of troubled slumber, came a woman’s stately form;
There fell a hush as at midnight, when the sheeted dead awake,
And even the silence shuddered as her words of power she spake: «
“ Mighty Odin, I am Vala,
I have heard your thunder-call,
I have heard the woful wailing
Sounding forth from Wingolfs hall;
And I know that beauteous Baldur,
Loved of all the gods is slain—
That the evil Loke triumphs,
And on Hbrder rests the stain.
But my words shall fail to tell you
Aught concerning him you mourn,
For the leaves that bear the record
From the Tree of Life are torn ;
And while Hecla’s fires shall glow,
Or the bubbling Geysers flow,
Of his fate no one shall know—
Understand you this, or no ?
“I will sing a solemn Saga, >.
I will chant a Runic rhyme,
Weave a wild prophetic Edda,
From the scattered threads of time:
Know, 0 Odin,—mighty Odin,—
That thy eons shall all be slain, .
Where the wild Valkyrien gather,
On the bloody battle plain;
And thy throne itself shall tremble.
With the stern resistless shock
Which shall rend the world asunder
At the day of Ragnaroc.
Other stars the night shall know, *
From the rock shall waters flow
And from ruin beauty grow—
Understand you this or no ?
“ Vainly shall the faithful Nomen
Water drooping Yggdrasill,
For the wrathful, restless dragon
April 6, 1877.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
163
At its roots is gnawing still.
Lok6’s evil arts shall triumph,
Herder’s eyes he dark with night,
Till the day of re-creation
Brings the buried Truth to light:
Then a greater god than Odin,
Over all the worlds shall reign,
And my Saga’s mystic meaning
As the sunlight shall be plain.
Out of evil good shall grow—
Doubt me not, for time shall show.
Understand you this or no ?'
Fare you well! I go—I go.”
There came a voice as of thunder, with a gleam of lurid light,
And the mystic Vala vanished like a meteor of the night;
Then I saw that the truth of the present is but the truth of the past,
But each phase is greater, and grander, and mightier than the last—
That the past is ever prophetic of that which is yet to be,
And that God reveals His glory by slow and distinct degree;
Yet still are the nations weeping o’er the graves of the Truth and Right:
Lo ! I summon another Yala—let her prophesy to-night.
With the amaranth, and the myrtle, and the asphodel on her brow,
Still wet with the dew of the kingdom, doth she stand before you now:
“ Not with sound of many thunders,.
Not with miracles and wonders,
Would I herald forth my coming from the peaceful spirit shore ;
But in God’s own love descending,
With your aspirations blending,
I would teach you of the future, that you watch and weep no more.
“ God is God from the creation;
Truth alone is man’s salvation :
But the God whom now you worship soon shall be your God no more;
For the soul, in its unfolding,
Evermore its thought remoulding,
Learns more truly, in its progress, ‘ how to love and to adore! ’
“ EviHs of Good, twin brother,
Born of God, and of none other;
And though Truth seem slain of Error, through the ills that men
deplore,
Yet still nearer to perfection,
She shall know a resurrection,
Passing on from ceaseless glory, unto glory evermore.
“ From the truths of former ages,
From the world’s close-lettered pages,
Man shall learn to meet more bravely all the life that lies before;
For the day of retribution
Is the final restitution
Of the good, the true, the holy, which shall live for evermore !
Understand you this, or no ?
Fare you well 1 I go—I go! ”
Spiritualism in Newcastle-on-Tyne.—On Sunday last, April 1st, ij
the guides of Mr. J. J. Morse delivered a trance address before the |
members oi the Newcastle Psychological Society. As this was the |j
commencement of another twelve months’ engagement of Mr. Morse, ji
they announced that they proposed giving a series of twelve lectures on j1
the Sunday evenings of each month, under the general head of !(
“ Elements of Cosmic Philosophy.” The particular department dealt b
with last Sunday was “ Supernaturalism; ” their next subject will be ]'
“Naturalism;” and in the June lectures they will follow on “ Spirit- |
ualism.” Last Sunday a poem of his own composition was delivered by
Mr. Jos. Skipsey, the Northumbrian seer and poet; and the public
ceremony was performed of naming the infant daughter of Mr. Thomas j
Tate, of Newcastle, by Mr. Morse. Mr. John Mould occupied the
chair.
Spiritualism and the Press.—“I have been recently assured by j
one of our leading journalists that Spiritualism finds favour at last with
many literary and scientific men in this country, but unfortunately we do
not see them; we have not yet heard their voices; they are silent when
most needed. It is known that almost every journal published in the
metropolis has one or more members of its staff who are thorough-going j
believers in Spiritualism, and yet if any public emergency arises they are j
dumb and stand by, whilst their associates are permitted to wield the
pen, to misrepresent the truth, to mislead the public, and to encourage
every charlatan in his pretended exposure of Spiritual phenomena.” j
—The Rise and Progress of Spiritualism in England, by Benjamin i
Coleman.
The Latest Miraculous Cures.—Miracles are becoming uncommonly j
common. There is the bed-ridden Chicago crone who prayed, and was
made whole. There is Mr. F. W. Fields, the lame man with the hip j
disease, who taught a Sunday-school class in Chicago, and whose leg j
grew two and a half inches after a night of prayer. And now comes
Ruth Harris (coloured) of Washington. She has been dumb for eight
years. She committed some dreadful act, and when accused of it called
upon the Creator to strike her dumb if she did not tell the truth. She
was struck dumb, and never spoke again until one night last week, when
she had a dream. Her mother—who died about a year ago—appeared
to her in the watches of the night, and told her that her powers of j
speech would return to her. Awakening from her dream, she found
that her speech had indeed returned. Rejoicing at the discovery she
turned over in bed, touched her husband’s shoulder, and when he was
aroused remarked, “ What do you think? ” He thought the world was
at an end, and waited for no explanation. Bouncing out of bed he ran
into the street, and aroused the neighbours. They returned with him,
and found that Ruth could really talk again. So runs the tale. Pro- I
bably- the miracle vein is being overworked just now.—Aew York
Tribune.
A CHALLENGE TO MESSRS. MASKELYNE AND COOKE.
BY S. C. HALL, P.S.A.
Messrs. rMaskelyne. and Cooke are clever conjurers : that and
nothing else; but they lead the public to think they can do what
spiritual mediums do. Can they ?
Let the matter be tested and—proved.
Will you transmit to them this challenge ?
I undertake to pay £50 to any charity they may name if they will do
any one of the eight things, of which I append a list.
But it must be done in my drawing-room in the presence of four per¬
sons invited by them, including themselves, and four persons invited
by me, including myself.
The conditions shall—and to that I give my honour—in no degree
differ from those under which I have seen that done which I shall call
upon them to do—if they can.
The eight things I have seen done in my own drawing-room, some of
them more than once.
The conditions, as I have said, shall be exactly the same. No one
shall enter the drawing-room until all enter together; but Messrs. M.
and C. shall consent to be searched before entering it.
The three persons chosen by me shall be gentlemen high in position,
literary or scientific, and the two brought by Messrs. M. and C. shall be
in no way their auxiliaries, but gentlemen whose names will guarantee
assurance that they aim only at elucidating truth.
I have not the remotest expectation that this challenge will be
accepted. The marvels of Messrs. M. and C. are very different indeed
from those of admitted spiritual mediums. The imitation is no more
like the real, than the basest pinchbeck is like that which it simulates
—pure gold.
1. Mr. Maskelyne shall take in his hand, from a clear fire in
my drawing-room, a large blazing coal; put it on my white head, let it
remain there two minutes, and not singe a hair.
2. He shall be seated on one of my drawing-room chairs, and be
raised thence to the ceiling, where he shall make a pencil mark, and
descend and again sit on the chair. This in sufficient light for on¬
lookers to trace his course.
3. A piano closed and locked, at a distance from the table, shall play
a well-lmown air of three minutes’ duration.
4. On a sheet of paper, marked so as to be identified, some power
write (in the dark) a sentence in Greek—first assuring the persons
present that it is a language of which he is ignorant.
5. He shall read a name written by me lightly in pencil on a slip of
paper, which slip I will enclose in seven thick envelopes.
6. He shall, in sufficient light, cause a handbell to be taken by a
hand (perceptible) from the table, and to be rung in distant parts of the
room, as well as over the heads of the sitters.
7. He shall, in the dark, make a drawing that competent judges shall
declare to be of excellence as a work of art, the subject chosen by me at
the moment: or paint a landscape in oil-colours, the colours provided
by me, and placed by me with brushes and (marked) canvas on my
table.
8. He will take my accordion, hold it in one hand, his other hand
being held by one of the persons present, and cause it to play good,
true, and beautiful music, of seven minutes’ duration.
It would be easy for me to greatly extend this list; but it is unneces¬
sary to do so. I think I could name twenty other things I have seen
mediums do, which I am very sure Messrs. M. and C. cannot do, unless,
indeed, they are permitted to make their own arrangements beforehand,
which I shall take good care they shall not be in a position to do.
It would be as easy forme to name tasks, perhaps more out of “ the
course of nature ” than either of these eight; but I confine myself to
those I have myself witnessed, and to which, if Messrs. M. and C
wish, I will testify on oath, sustaining my affidavit by the testimony of
at least a dozen persons, whose testimony would be, without a moment’s
hesitation, accepted as unquestionable on any other subject by all who
read their statements.
I may state that among the names of some of my guests on one or
more of the eight occasions were Lord Lindsay, Lord Dunraven, Lord
Lytton (the late), Robert Chambers, Serjeant Cox, W. Crookes, F.R.S.,
Rev. J. G. Wood, M.A., William and Mary Howitt, Colonel Drayson.
I repeat that if under the conditions I lay down, which are simply
those that have been accorded to mediums who have done them, they
will do any one of the eight, I will give the sum of £50 to any charity
they will name.
Religious Mania.—Had the hero of the following narrative been a
Spiritualist, all the daily papers would be publishing articles on the
subject, and full details sent to America by the Atlantic cables. We quote
the account from iho Pall Mall Gazette:—“At the Uxbridge petty ses¬
sions yesterday (Monday), James Rookes, aged fifty-three, was charged
with being found wandering, suffering from religious mania. About
midnight on Sunday a police-constable on duty at Hillingdon Heath
saw the prisoner walking towards London naked, and took him back to
Uxbridge, a distance of two miles. At the police-station the prisoner
said that he was released from Colney Hatch Asylum about a fortnight
previously, and that on Sunday he resolved to attend a mission meeting
at Exeter. He walked from London as far as Gerrard’s-cross, and was
there met by the devil, who looked into his eyes to see if he was the
right man. The prisoner then remembered that he had something to
confess. He had, however, forgotten the words he should repeat, and
the only way in which he thought he could free himself from the power
of the evil one was by walking backwards for a mile naked. He
accordingly undressed himself, and leaving his clothes in the road,
walked backwards. After going about a mile in this way he returned
for his clothes, but could not find them, and consequently determined to
"walk back to London.”
164
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April 6, 1877.
A REMARKABLE SEANCE WITH MR. EGLINTON.
BY C. CAKTER BLAKE, DOC. SCI.
On Tuesday, the 27th ultimo, a seance took place at
38, Great Russell-street, Mr. W. Eglinton as medium, the
circle present being Captain James, Mr. J. F. Collingwood,
F.G.S., Mrs. Lewis, Mr. W. B. Mawson, Mr. W. Cutler,
Mrs, Burton Burton, Mrs. Tennyson Ker, Mrs. and Miss
Falkiner, and myself.
The medium, who wore black clothes, was placed loose in
the cabinet, sitting on a chair, with his face in a westerly
direction. The curtains being closed, and the musical box
turned on, a long white figure, resembling that known as
Abd-u-lah” was seen at the centre of the curtain within
one minute from the time of the closing the curtains.
After a few more minutes such form came out and walked
into the middle of the room, eight times in all. The form
termed “Joey” then appeared and stepped to the front of
the cabinet, where, after retreating several times, he
stooped down to the ground, and covered his head with a
fold of white drapery. He then rose up with the black beard
attached to the cheeks (but not chin) of Abd-u-lah, and
stood up to a greater height than that \irhich the medium
himself reaches. He further picked up the light round
table and held it at arm’s length above his head, trying
(abortively) to place it on the top of the cabinet.
After some time a request was made by a lady and gentle¬
man present, that the medium and ” Abd-u-lah ” should be
shown at the same time. To this request “ Joey ” acceded;
and subsequently the following events took place : Mr.
Eglinton sitting as before, the curtains were drawn showing
the figure Abd-u-lah standing up near and in front of the
wire screen; and two patches of light which may be reason¬
ably conjectured to have been Mr. Eglinton’s face and left
hand at the level which he would have occupied if he had
been sitting in the chair. This not being, however, perfectly
clear to all, the form Abd-u-lah took a step or two to its own
proper right, keeping face to face with Eglinton, who rose
from his chair, and raised both his hands with what appeared
to be convulsive action. This time there was no doubt that
it really was Eglinton standing up in front of, and about Si-
feet outside the cabinet opposite to a form exceeding him¬
self in stature, and dressed in white. This was clearly seen
by all present during an interval of time which I estimate as
six minutes, and in what has been termed “ quarter gas¬
light.” Eglinton then sat down in his chair, and the form
Abd-u-lah appeared to vanish into Eglinton, appearing to
unite with him about the breast. I then stepped into the
cabinet, ascertained that Eglinton was thoroughly asleep,
lifted him outside the cabinet, and examined the spot care¬
fully. The voice called that of “ Joey ” was chattering non¬
sense around and about the walls of the cabinet all the time.
Eglinton subsequently woke up.
I consider this to have been the most remarkable seance
which I have seen in the presence of Mr. Eglinton, and to
have been thoroughly conclusive to those present of his non¬
identity with the form which is called “ Abd-u-lah.” It is
the more remarkable, as on the previous Tuesday some very
slight manifestations took place, though the conditions were
similar and satisfactory.
What is the Origin op Psychic Eorce?—At a recent meeting of
the members of the National Association of Spiritualists, Mr. W. H.
Coffin presided, and after the reading of a paper by Mr. D. Fitz¬
Gerald on “ Physical Science and Spiritual Psychology,” a discussion
took place on the correspondence or connection between the me¬
chanical force exerted by man derived from food, and what Spirit¬
ualists understand by “ psychic force,” the motive power in the pro¬
duction of “physical manifestations.” Mr. Tapp said that he had
often suffered great exhaustion after seances, and felt ravenously
hungry, though he had, perhaps, dined only a quarter of an hour
before going there. On the other hand, Mr. Joy gave the case of Mr.
Ashman, who could mesmerise for many hours without apparently
suffering any loss of energy. Mr. Tapp also cited the case of a lady
who was herself weakly and delicate, but whose presence in the circle
seemed to give strength to the medium. He would like to know
whether the lady gave the energy, or whether she was used as a vehicle
for transferring it from the circle to the medium. She hoped the
Research Committee of the Association would make some experi¬
ments in that direction. Mr. Shorter remarked that there appeared
to be an equalisation of forces in a spirit’s circle, as each person was
generally differently affected. After some closang remarks from Mr.
Fitz-Gerald, the meeting broke up.
THE RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OF SPIRITUALISM.
A TRANCE ORATION BY MRS. C. L. V. TAPPAN-RICHMOND.*
Oh, Heavenly Father ! Thou Infinite Spirit! Thou Beneficent
Guide! Thou Counsellor and Friend! To Thee we turn in aspiration
and praise, giving to Thee the tribute of the offering of our lives, of
the loftiest hopes of the mind, of the divinest contemplation of the
spirit. Thou who art enshrined within every living soul, who art the
life of every moving thing, whose spirit pulsates alike in the atom and
in the star, who art the life of the burnished wing of the butterfly and
the aspiration of the soul of man; Thou who hast builded from eternity
the Temple of Infinite Life ; thou who hast from eternity endowed the
spirit of man with understanding and immortality, framing within the
soul the lofty edifice of life, and fashioning there the sanctuary of
worship—-unto that sanctuary, even the House of God, fashioned by
thy hand, we would repair; we would keep it free from all that con¬
taminates or makes unholy—pure and burnished like the shining light of
the vestal altar, free from all earthly stain, even like the whiteness of
the orb of day, burnished like the countless stars that fill the firmament,
adorning and beautifying and giving home to immortal souls; the
temple of the spirit, the shrine of all holiness, the altar of immortal
worship—there we would bend to praise Thee.
Not the burnished incense of outward shrine, not the gilded altar, not
the everlasting token of man’s adoration, but the spirit, meek and
lowly, the loving thought, the kindly deed, the purity of life, all these
shall be the offerings that we bring unto thee; and if there be some that
bring the offering of sorrow^ if death, white-winged and with noiseless
step, has silently touched the brow of dearly loved ones, and there be
those that bend in the altar of the spirit to-night with tears and de¬
spondency, bh, let them find that life immortal springeth from death,
and that beyond the clouds of time and sense the glorified soul rises
free and untrammelled. If there be those that bend in the soul’s altar
to-night, upon whom material life weighs heavily, who know not the
voice of the Spirit, and hear not Thy divine, parental, and loving soul,
oh, let them know that, even as in the dark the hand of life is extended,
even as upon the storm-tossed waves the voice of peace was heard, even
as the mother bird, who presses forth the young that they may learn to
fly alone, so is Thy hand extended amid the storms of outward life, and
though clouds intervene Thy spirit reveals itself in many a sign and
token, that if they will only listen they may hear.
Let Thy power be felt and known,, let the quickening of Thy Spirit,
like a flame of holy light, burn within, and let its fruition of praise be
the loftiness of thought, the excellence of life, the charity, the divine
goodness that encompasses, the souls of those who see Thee and know
Thee, in spirit and in truth.—Amen.
Some twenty years ago, from his pulpit in Music Hall, Boston, my
friend,Mr.Theodore Parker, said this of Spiritualism, or “Spiritism,”
as he termed it: “ This belief, without priests, without creeds,
without churches, without any established form of worship or teachers,
entering silently every pathway of life, piercing every department
of science, of literature, of religion, is destined to be the religion of the
future.”
Mr. Parker was not a Spiritualist; he had never investigated the
phenomena of modem Spiritualism; he had no time to do so; but he
was perfectly aware of the influence it was destined to exert upon the
minds of the people, being predicated, as he saw, upon undeniable
proofs, and having for its foundation the broadest scope of human
philosophy and reason.
It is not my purpose to measure the religions of the past in the
light of modern thought. That has already been done far more
ably than I can do it to-night, and, perhaps, in some instances
unjustly. The past religions of the earth have fulfilled measurably
their purposes. For the age in which they were given they were
undoubtedly the religions, and we often misinterpret them in the light
of modern thought and science, by not being able to place ourselves
en rapport with the circumstances, surroundings, times, and inspirations
of the period in which they were given. To the Buddhist belongs his
worship, to the Brahmin his, to the Hindoo his, to the Hebraic wor¬
shipper his, to the Mohammetan his, to the Christian of every denomi¬
nation his own especial form of praise. It is not my province to find
fault with this or that form, to criticise or call in question the methods
by which the different devotees approach the Infinite Mind. I only
claim the privilege of approaching God in my own way, and after the
manner in which my mind and my spirit shall see to be the best method
of approaching Him.
It is the claim of the Protestant Church that man has the right to
interpret the Scriptures according to his own understanding. There is
no Church in the world that has given fewer privileges of interpretation.
It is the boast of the Protestant Church that to man’s conscience there
comes a quickening voice which shall act as an interpreter. There is
no Church in the world that listens less to that quickening voice, I am
sorry to say, than the Church of our ancestors. Girded round by the
narrow limits of creed, established in fixed forms of thought, limited in
the range of intellectual observation, the Protestant Church is made a
prison-house from which, as rapidly as the mind of the nineteenth
century has developed, the young fledgelings have flown away. Like
the home circle that is too greatly restricted in its amusements and
pleasures, like the cruel parent that enjoins obedience because of duty,
from which the offspring take their departure as soon as strength of
limb and mind will permit, so from out the nest of the Protestant faith,*
one fledgeling after another has flown, leaving the mother Church
almost bare of offspring, and the parent nest like a deserted rookery,
filled, it is true, with those that cling there for the mere support of the
external edifice, but devoid of much of the life and inspiration which
the younger elements of modem thought would have given it.
* This inspirational address was delivered at Chicago,. U.^., Feb, 26th, 1877, And pro¬
fessedly under the influence of the late William Ellery Channingi
Apkil 6, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
165
Incorporated into the Church, however, is the thought of modern i) j
intelligence, and this gradually, notwithstanding the force of education i j i
and creed, is making its presence felt. But intellect is harsh in her ijl
methods, science is didactic in her measures, and with external proof m
and the sledge-hammer of strong logic and intellect, the Church has j yl
been battered away from the outside, instead of renovated from within. |>j
The materialist has made the mistake of supposing that the Church j (j
is not maintained by human beings, has made the mistake of supposing \{\
that the Church is an edifice, a something that can be torn away by the m
mere proclamation of scientific truth and the errors in the Church itself. ! (j
But not so. The perception of knowledge is a matter of growth, and j>j
those within and without the Church must have a consciousness of |)|
error before they can admit or even adopt new forms of belief. \h
Unfortunately, however, the religious mind of the nineteenth century hi
has not been strengthened in its proper strongholds. The faith which 1)1
was the strong groundwork of the early Christians, has steadily departed i (!
before the light and the encroachments of science, and the spiritual i \!
fervour which kept alive the early faith was quenched just so soon as j)|
political ambition and external power became the chief instruments for )||
the forwarding of the Church itself. Under these circumstances, it is i|j
most wonderful that there is as much religions fervour in the Church as j )|
there is to-day. Under these circumstances it is most wonderful that m
the human mind clings even to any thought of worship, when we \)\
consider the external ambition, the pride, the history of bloodshed and J
rapine, the adoption and support of every form of human oppression \ (j
that has had its chief foundation in the established churches of the \)\
world. The centres of power have been sustained and supported by |)j
religious bodies, and these centres of power have frequently been ijj
associated with tyranny, with ambition, with pride, with all that jl
degraded humanity. j H
Briefly, then, the religions of the world seem to have passed through ! j j
three successive stages; the religion of external power or force, which i j
was illustrated in the early Mosaic Dispensation and in the earlier i)j
religions of the world, where temporal power, external splendour, beauty i j
of adornment, outward display, external offerings, the sacrificial rite,
were held as necessities for human devotion. Under this light of pre- j)j
vailing force man became cruel; his methods of devotion became \\\
methods of torture, and the governments of the world were used and n j
employed to enforce a religion of power and of tyranny over the con- i) |
science of mankind. No soul could think of worshipping according to i (i
its own dictates, because every soul had permission, chiefly from those 'ijj
who held power, to worship only after a given method, and all forms of j| j
external sacrifice must be employed to propitiate the divinities which j j j
seemed to hedge man around with physical power and destruction. To ijj
such divinities belonged one of the three divinities of the Brahminical j j
worship, and to the divinity of destruction more than those of creation j (]
the Brahmins gave their adoration; and the children of Israel, borrowing j j I
from the ancient methods, gave to the god of power their offerings, their i |;
sacrifices, their external tokens of reverence and praise, forgetting that ijj
the chief life must come from within, though often reminded of this by ijj
prophet, seer, and sage. ijj
The next dispensation of religion seemed a modification of the law of i j
force, and was one of moral power and fervour; but just so soon as man jj
externally became the representative of that religion, it was again U
merged into the law of force, and from the doctrines and teachings of i j
Christ, who came to the spirit of man, the Church gradually degenerated i j
again into the external form of worship, and to the enforcement of i j
external discipline. These methods were also adopted in the Protestant j j
Church, and though the first outcome of the Protestant religion promised i j
a greater harvest to the spiritual kingdom, it was not long before the j j
Church and State again united in the unhallowed compact of compelling j j
people to worship, not according to the dictates of their conscience, but j j
. according to the dictates of priest, king, or ruler; and thus it came to I j
pass that out of the Protestant Church, and out of the dynasties of j j
ancient governments, sprung the newer kingdoms of thought and the i)
republic of the world. j j
But a milder thought of religion came into the world. Overspreading j
all, even as after a storm the bright evening glow overspreads the sky, j)
there came into the thought of the nineteenth century—there came even ||
as early as the eighteenth century—the dawning of the peaceful religion, j j
the method of Christ as belonging to that of love, the teaching of the j I
life of Christ as the example of humanity; and this, gradually spreading j j
itself in the time of John Wesley, was caught up by the early Unita- jj
rians, advocated by Dr. Priestley and others, until, at last, from the i)
Unitarians and Universalists, and other bands of worshippers, there j
came to be a belief in the world in the love, instead of the fear of Grod; j j
in the power of love, instead of the power of anger and hatred; in the j j
overspreading mercy of the religion of Christ, instead of the condemna- j
tion of that religion; and in contradistinction to the extreme doctrines jj
of Calvin and of some of the followers of Luther, there came into being j)
the milder form that adopts the thought of the salvation of the whole j j
human family; but accompanying this milder form came also the dis- j j
ruption of creeds, the doubt as to religion itself, the doubt and cloud j j
thrown upon inspiration; the Bible came under critical examination, j j
creeds under the disintegrating touch of infidelity; and there arose the j
materialistic tendencies of the past century, the line of thought in the ij
schools of modern philosophy, which Seemed destined to overthrow, not j j
only all religious thought, but the very foundations of religion. Under j j
these circumstances, Universalism and Unitarianism, though spreading j)
rapidly and gaining adherents, gained them frequently at the expense j j
of spiritual power, and it became no longer .a question of teaching jj
religion, but rather of teaching in some new form of literary novelty j)
the most modern thought in philosophy and science, and the churches j j
now that express the greatest intelligence, and to which are drawn the j j
largest number of worshippers continually, are those that say the least j)
about religion. , \ jj
If we become followers of a school of thought which admits the J
freedom of human conscience, but at the same time refuses to admit the
increase and continued flow of spiritual power in the universe, we are
liable to become impoverished spiritually. Such a school has sprung
up among the liberal, free-thinking religionists of this age ; and we are,
therefore, in the midst, not of a revival of free religion, but rather of an
attenuated form of metaphysical philosophy, borrowed somewhat from
the school of Germany, borrowed somewhat from the school of Bentham
and Mill, but being still more strongly tinctured with the school of
Huxley, Tyndall, and Carpenter, in England. Under this regime the
Unitarian Church is drifting into the school of unbelief. Under this
regime the Church of England, with the broad church interpretation, is
drifting into the school of unbelief; and under this regime those who
seek for a strong foundation of faith are flying to the bosom of the
Boman Catholic Church, while out of the Protestant Churches are
fleeing those who seek for freedom of thought under the pale of modern
philosophy.
I claim that Spiritualism is the religion of the world. Take away
from the Inspired Word the contact of angelic ministration, of
messengers, of spirits, of angels and their doings with mankind, and
you take away all there is of it. Take away from the record of Christ
and His teachings that which pertains to the spiritual nature of man,
and you take away the life of that record. So with the history of the
Church, and so with the history of man. Take from Plato, from
Socrates, from Galileo, from any teacher of philosophy, poet, or artist,
the spirit that is unexpressed, and you take the vitality of their philo¬
sophy, of their poesy, and of their art from them. The image which
they give is only the suggestion of what lies beyond it, is only some¬
thing to lead the mind to the contemplation of the spiritual proposition
which was really the animating principle. All the prophets of science
have been led step by step, not so much by the outward observation as
by what the outward observation suggested of that which the senses
could not reach.
For my own part, had I ever experienced for one moment a doubt
concerning the spiritual nature of man, or the ultimate power of the
Infinite Spirit, I should have considered myself a beggar upon the
earth. Despite of the poverty of human theology, despite of the husks
and stones upon which they sought to feed me when a child, despite of
the revelations that came to me through study afterward, the belief and
consciousness in a super-atmosphere of spiritual power never deserted
my mind for one moment. Calmly as an infant upon its mother’s
bosom, I trusted in that Infinite Power that I knew girded the universe
round about, and as calmly I allowed my mind to understand that the
spiritual, though uncomprehended, formed the chief portion of the life
which I lived.
The questions, then, which are most frequently asked of Spiritualists
to-day are, Is Spiritualism a religion ? Does it intend to usurp or sup¬
plant the religions of the past ? Is it at war with, and in conflict with
Christianity? Does it usurp and supplant the foundations of past
beliefs ? It is not my province to answer these questions, but simply to
say that they suggest that which I wish to say to-night.
Chistianity is in more danger of foes from within than from without.
The established forms of Christian belief are rapidly melting away under
a broader comprehension of the world, and if you mean by Christianity
either the Roman Catholic Church or the various evangelical bodies of
the Protestant Church then they are being undermined by themselves;
that is, containing the power of self-destruction, the external structure
of every human theology will perish with the material surroundings
under which that structure was framed, but out of these will spring new
expressions of Christian belief, and the ultimate Christianity is, of
course, the ultimate Church of the world. Spiritualism has not only
been a great disintegrator, but a revelator as well; entering the Church,
laying hold of the most cherished creeds, fastening its truth upon the
mind in contravention of some of the established beliefs of the Church
itself, it has steadily encroached until theology melts even as rocks
before the encroaching power of the avalanche, which, in spring time,
melts and carries away rock, tree, debris, all, with it.
Now, some of the principal points of belief in the Christian theology
must of necessity pass away with the knowledge that Spiritualism brings.
I will name a few of these points. The belief which is entertained by
some classes of Christians, that the body sleeps until the resurrection,
and that the soul is in a state of probation or sleep during that time.
If a spirit can live one instant, one hour, one day, without its material
body, it will probably never require that material body to live afterwards,
and the presence of one disembodied spirit who attests that he or she
lives in Spiritual Life without the physical body, certainly does away
with all belief in the resurrection of the physical body of man. This,
of course, has been done away with in many minds long ago, but there
are those who still cling to it, and to such the answer is: “I live in
Spirit Life; I have a spiritual body; I am conscious, and my surround¬
ings are those of spiritual existence.,,
Another belief is, that there is an absolute place of torture and an
absolute place of happiness. Every spirit passing into Spirit Life, who
can find means of communication with his friends, says: “I am not in
hell; I am not in heaven; that is, I am not in either place, according to
the interpretation of theology; I am in the Spirit World; I am in a
sphere adapted to my state and condition. There are stages of growth,
conditions of life adapted to every stage of human thought.” At one
word of an angelic messenger or guardian spirit the whole superstruc¬
ture of the heaven and hell of theology sinks away. Why ? Because
the facts are of more power than the belief in an imaginary or theological
place of torture or happiness. The ancients believed that beyond the
Pillars of Hercules, which guarded the Mediterranean and held it at its
westernmost shore, there lay a wild region of sea, of waste, wherein
were monsters, gorgon-headed evils, powers that would devour any un¬
toward mariner who would venture thither, and it was not until some
inspired mariner ventured beyond, discovering the shores of Britain,
that it was believed that the western portion was at all habitable, or
166
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apeil 6, 1877.
that there was any region there that was not given over to the powers j (
of darkness. So, when Columbus set sail to find the New World it i)
was the belief among the superstitious of his own land, who threw every | j
obstacle in his way, that he was venturing out upon a sea inhabited by j (
demons, and that, for his temerity in doubting that the earth was flat, he i 5
would certainly be devoured by monsters. Science, with her gradually j j
encroaching revelations, has revealed the wonderful structure of the H
earth, and this vast, peopled continent is an answer to all such fears. !)
So, when out of the darkness of the past, penetrating the unknown \ j
regions that lie beyond death, theology fashioned a hell and a heaven i!
which were but figurative and allegorical illustrations in the time of i)
the prophets and of Christ; when out of the fears of death and out of j (
the conscience-stricken fear of punishment, these two regions were jj
peopled with the two classes of human souls that evangelical theology i j |
had divided mankind into, then there came a bold mariner, Swedenborg, i (|
from that region, saying:—“ There are various stages of human life.” ]I|
And when into the milder light of the Wesleyan theology there shall j||
enter the thought of the possibility of progression beyond death, and i |!
when, confirming that, the seers, of modern Spiritualism declare that j I
there are degrees of human life adapted to each human spirit; and jjjl
when coupled with the vision of the seer and prophet are the j)j
words from the departed soul:—“ I am not in hell; I am not in absolute 11 j
heaven; but I am in a sphere adapted to my condition,” the whole |:||
region of fear and of unduly exaggerated hope passes away, and the soul )|
is admitted into the natural kingdom of life beyond the gateway called (I
death. (]
No belief, however strongly grounded, can possibly withstand the jj
constant encroachments of actual revelation, of actual knowledge. One (j
messenger from the World of Spirits is worth one hundred thousand j j
beliefs. One absolute voice from beyond the grave is worth a million jj
tones of power or fear, such as are given to the unconverted by the j (i
Evangelical Christians. j j I
We must confine ourselves to the religion of facts, for those facts ijj
include all possibilities in the universe, and when the fact is there jj;
we shall not be obliged to answer a creed, for the truth speaks for itself. I j j
Does Spiritualism teach any creed? No. Has Spiritualism any j||
especial form of belief? No. Is there in Spiritualism any established j j
method of religion? No. Are there any particular teachings requisite j j
to become a Spiritualist ? No. What then is the religion ? The j J j
consciousness of a spiritual nature in man which recognises a spiritual j j j
nature in the universe; the proof of God lying within man himself j j
and not without him: the consciousness of an Infinite Spirit, Power, j j
Principle, Mind, moving the universe, whose personality it is not j j
important for men to know, inasmuch as the finite cannot grasp the j j
infinite; the consciousness of an unending state of spiritual life, j j
which begins with the growth of the spirit here, and never ends; 11
the consciousness that the future life for the first stages is adapted i j
precisely to the conditions of mortal life here, but the infinite stages j j
that lie beyond are adapted to man’s eternal growth. The religion of j jj
Spiritualism includes everything that pertains to the spiritual nature of j j
man, here and hereafter; includes everything that can promote the ijj
growth of that spiritual nature, here and hereafter, and lays the founda- j j
tion of that growth, not upon external belief, speculation, creed, or aught ; j i
that the outward man can do, but upon the growth of the spirit itself, ; j I
upon the claim that the spirit has to a place in the infinite universe, j jj
Small though it be, minute in comparison to the Infinite Soul, a place j jj
in the spiritual universe every soul must claim, and having a place, has i jj
all the rights, all the privileges, all the possibilities of any other soul j j
whatsoever. j j j
With this basis, the religion of Spiritualism includes all religions, i j
admits all, questions all, and leaves all stripped of their mere ex- i j
ternalities, laying bare the soul of human worship for the contemplation j I
of the mind of man. With this interpretation, the religion of Spirit- jji
ualism becomes the overarching, controlling, all-absorbing power of the j j j
spiritual nature which abides in the soul of man. A Brahmin or Hebrew, j j j
Egyptian or Christian, alike can worship at its shrine because it in- j jj
eludes the whole. Just so much of the sunlight as you behold, that ijl
much will you recognise and absorb. As the powers of the spirit ijl
expand, the powers for the recognition of truth increase, and so the j/j
spirit by gradual stages of unfoldment recognises the ultimate Power of j j j
the universe. j j
The creeds of men seem to have been convenient walls, barring the j I
soul from too much light lest its dazzling splendour should overcome | j
them. We treat young and tender plants carefully; if they have been jji
in darkness, we remove them gradually to the light; we guard them by j j
climbing trellis and by sheltered wall until they have grown strong ijj
enough to bear the full rays of the sun. After this manner the creeds j i
of men have been convenient walls upon which to climb, but when at j j
last the tree is fully formed and the trunk is strong, and the limbs i jt
stretch themselves out gradually, the wall must be taken away or the ijj
tree will be cramped and dwarfed and upon one side only will yield j j j
fruition and life. So the spirit must not too long remain sheltered by j j j
walls and barriers of time and sense. There is a time when the child i j i
must learn to walk alone. There is a time when the spirit must learn ijj
to know that leaning steadfastly upon the life above is a great deal safer j jj
than leaning on the earth beneath. That vine which only creeps upon i j j
the ground never becomes strong in its power, and the soul knows that j j
the rays of the Infinite Light penetrate through matter and time and j j j
sense for the uplifting of the soul beyond the matter, and not for the j j
building up of the external to wall in the soul. ' j jj-
The God whom I worship, the God that Spiritualism recognises and j j j
believes in, is the Infinite Spirit of life everywhere, all-pervading, j j j
active, in the glow-worm and in the star. The Spirit whom I adore iji
is the Spirit that is as near to every soul as to the highest archangel in iji
heaven, to whom every soul, whether on earth or in obscurest planet, j j i
is just as dear. The Spirit whom I adore is not the one of partisan ijj
strife, is not the one that enters into the imperfections of time or takes ®' I
cognisance in any degree of personalities, of the strivings and conten¬
tions here; but implanting within the human breast a consciousness of
what is due to itself, makes man the arbiter of his own destiny by
taking him into an eternal co-partnership of responsibility, that re¬
sponsibility being the consciousness of man himself; and therefore, as
a king and ruler will not enter into the petty disputes of his subjects,
but leaves arbitrators to do this for him, so man himself is the medium
between God and his own spirit.
There is no pathway marked out. There is no creed whereby the
Spiritualist hopes to gain heaven. There is no external offering of
praise ; there is no formula of devotion. The only creed which the
true Spiritualist recognises is that of truth, wherever it shall lead.
The Infinite being everywhere, the truth being its brightness, I cannot
distrust it, though it lead me through every pathway of human doubt.
The doubt is the material wall which man has builded round the soul.
I will undermine that wall, and it shall not crush me, for I shall find
my way to the other side and see the truth that is there !
The only formula which true Spiritualism enjoys is the daily and
hourly worship of God by the daily and hourly fulfilment of
the highest duty before you. He who denies this as being the
religion of Spiritualism is an external Spiritualist and not a Spirit¬
ualist indeed. He who denies that the spirit of man must be
quickened by a consciousness of immortal life is a phenomenalist, and
not a Spiritualist. He who denies that Spiritualism appeals to the
religion of man’s nature in the worship of God through the highest
manifestation of the spirit of man in the form, is an externalist, and
not a Spiritualist.
The true form of worship is the expression of praise in the highest
life that man can lead. The lilies blooming by the feet of the Master
in Galilee were the type of a sermon; the flower growing by the
wayside is the fulfilment of praise ; it perfects itself so far as is pos¬
sible, becoming the highest type of its kind. The forest tree, bird,
star, and sun proclaim their praise by being the highest of their kind.
Shall man, endowed with spirit, with immortal possibilities, with un¬
quenched imagination, with lofty flight and tongue—shall he be less a
symbol of praise ? The praise which I demand from my kind unto
the God whom I worship is that they be as perfect as possible. The
commandment of Christ—“Be ye perfect, even as your Father in
heaven is perfect ”—is not that you shall be like God, infinite, but
that as human beings you shall be perfect, as immortal spirits you
shall be perfect, as souls with immortal powers you shall express those
souls in the loftiest thought and aspiration of life.
He whose actions are -the noblest, he whose life is the best, he who
drowns the body in the soul’s living waters, he who makes manifest
the noblest charity, the widest range of intelligence, the loftiest
expression of the spirit—he is the worshipper at the shrine of the
Spirit’s temple. I care not whether he bend the knee before the shrine
of the Roman Catholic Church, or whether he worship at the setting
Of the sun with the Mussulman, bowing as the bells chime over mosque
and tower; I care not whether he repeat sermon or song of praise or
anthem, or whether there be words in his prayer or only deeds ; if his
life be the expression of the spirit, as far as he knows, he is the true
worshipper, and he sings the praises of God after the manner of the
infinite intention.
This is the ultimate of the creed of Spiritualism. This is all there is
of it. There are no ritualistic offerings, no hymns nor praises. If we
sing it is because we must; if we pray it is because our aspiration
leads us to prayer. We ask no man to pray. If we give forth our
expression in deed of kindness and word of love, it is because the
kindness and the love are there, not because we imitate them for
duty’s sake. If we would speak gently, it is because gentleness is
within; if we would instruct, it is because there is a lesson to be
taught, not because there are words and nothing but words.
Those who teach that the Spirit Life is for the most part like the
earthly life, and are contented with a mere knowledge of existence
beyond death, defraud the soul of its loftiest aspiration. The external
consciousness of spiritual existence is not enough, but it is that that
consciousness shall interpenetrate the mind, shall quicken the power,
shall make lofty the aspiration, shall lay the foundation for the soul’s
temple beyond the ,grave. Is it enough that you know when you are
a child that you are to be a man ? Are you satisfied and contented
with this ? Do you not daily strive to become a man faster than you
can, and is not the child constantly mimicking, in its small way, the
actions of the children of larger growth, and are not the children of
mortal life as imitative as these ?. Shall we not always hold to that
which lies beyond, laying the foundation of existence as we pass on,
and striving for the angelhood that lies veiled and hidden from the
sight ?
Oh, it is not simply the existence beyond death that is great, that
is wonderful, that is the miracle of the modern science of Spiritualism
—the proof that has come to this materialistic age of existence
beyond death; but it is that that [existence is fraught also with
infinite possibilities, and that beyond the Spirit Life, which is the
mere reflex and addition to earthly life, is the great eternity of life
piled mountains high with its possibilities before the immortal soul.
If it were only a Spirit World, with a repetition of the passions,
the hopes, the ambitions, and the manners of earthly life, it might
well be blotted out; but it is a Spirit World that is one step nearer
the altitude of angel life.
When John, upon the isle of revelation, called Patmos, received the
angelic messenger, and beheld his glory, he would fain have worshipped
him ; he forbade; him, saying : “ See that th®u do it not; I am of thy
brethren that have the testimony of Jesus.” Not the revelations of
life beyond death, but the consciousness of the continued existence of
father, mother, husband, wife, and friend, their ♦ministrations and
presence, bring comfort, bring aid, bring elevation to thought and
aspiration to mind.
April 6, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 167
If the message of life beyond death means anything, if it means the
commingling of kindred souls, if it means the continuation of the
gaining of knowledge, then it means that for every loftiest dream, not
only of reunited love, there is a realisation, but that also beyond the
spirit land, and beyond the various degrees and stages that lie in the
immediate spirit world, there is another and a vaster land, a land of
celestial power and beauty, whose glory only the inspired vision can
behold, whose contemplation can only come to loftiest thought and
poesy, like Dante’s loftiest vision, or like the dream of Raphael, re¬
vealing images of the heavenly throng, unpictured to mortal eye,
unspoken in mortal word. It means solution of all those problems
that lie within the spirit, veiled and half ready for expression—the re¬
lation of man to the Infinite, the relation of man to the angelic hosts
that have already soared beyond time and space, and are making new
pathways to eternity, paving those pathways with the glory of their
own thoughts, even as they have paved the pathway of time with the
splendour of their existence here. ,
Oh, mighty hosts ! Oh, attendant throng! Oh, glorified souls,
having knowledge where mortals grope in darkness, having wisdom
where they are blind, having sight where they cannot see, encompass
the world with somewhat of this power, and make the religion of
mankind the aspiration of the soul to fulfil its loftiest life; and in that
life, and in that soul, and in that divine expression, may the Infinite
Spirit, shining through all, glorified in grandeur, adorn each mind with
something of its splendour, and make of each spirit a worshipper at the
temple of truth.
On the Sunday after next the Very Rev. Canon Gilbert, D.D., Vicar-
General of the Archdiocese of Westminster, will commence a series of
sermons at the Roman Catholic Church of St. Mary’s, Moorfields, on
“ Spiritualism : its Manifestations and its Scientific and Religious
Aspects.”
The Alleged Haunted House in Kent.—A fortnight ago a brief
statement which had been sent to Mr. J. N. T. Martheze, of 20, Palmeira-
square, Brighton, about an alleged haunted house in Kent, was published
in The Spiritualist. The very circumstantial and minute testimony was
to the effect that sometimes the disturbances were so great as to frighten
the cattle outside the house; that two gentlemen who came for a week’s
shooting could not stop more than one night because of the noises, which
consisted of groaning and the shaking of the house; that other persons
had been similarly annoyed; and that the farmer in possession had
given special instructions with his own lips to some boys on the farm
not to irritate the unseen, unkown, unquiet sprites. There was, also,
incidental mention of the appearance of “ a gentleman in black.” Last
Monday Mr. W. H. Harrison, of 38, Great Russell-street, London, went
to the house to inquire into these matters, and to, if possible, get into
communication with the invisible disturbers of the peace. The tenement
is in a picturesque situation, surrounded by undulating, well-wooded
country, far from any railway station, in the region immortalised by the
Ingoldsby Legends. The farmhouse itself is on the site of an old
ecclesiastical establishment, from the ruins of which it is in part built,
and is now the property of the primates of Canterbury. The original
building was erected in 1253, in the reign of Henry III., for canons
regular of the order of St. Augustine; nearly three hundred years later
Henry VIII. turned the monks out of the premises, which he afterwards
leased to Archbishop Cranmer. The farmer-tenant of the present house
was from home when Mr. Harrison called, but his son denied that there
was any truth in the statements of the informants of Mr. Martheze.
He said that no noises had ever been heard .in the house which could
not fairly be explained as due to owls and rats. He had heard that
some of the labourers about the premises had said that the house was
haunted, but there was no truth in their story. He did not believe in
haunted houses, and should like to live in one if he could get the chance.
The narrative which had been sent to Mr. Martheze was a fabrication.
The Psychology of Revivals.—Prominent Spiritualists have written,
and are writing, on the subject of revivals considered in the light of the
spiritual philosophy. They hold that the results are founded on exact
laws that have always existed. The force employed is the will. The
operators, or revivalists, through experience, understand how the best
results may be obtained, but are ignorant of the true nature of their
powers. They proceed first to interest the ministers. If all labour
harmoniously, so much the better prospect of success, for there are no
opposing wills. When all the preliminaries are arranged, and the
united ministers and revivalists are at work, a mind-battery is uncon-
ciously turned upon the audience, earnestly exhorting or willing that
some one shall become converted. The first to feel the'effects would be
those who were negative or receptive to its influence—that is, weak
minds, or minds that were not averse to so doing, or perhaps were
wishing that they might feel “a change of heart.” As the will-power
influences them and they yield, they also join the positive side and
earnestly pray (or will) that others may do likewise. Gradually, by
these fresh additions, the influence becomes so strong that even those
who “ came to scoff” find their wills broken down by this power that
they could not resist, and they “ remain to pray.” Revivals succeed
best in cold weather. It is impossible for any speaker to send a thrill
of mesmeric influence into the hearts of an audience sweltering with
heat. This also is in obedience to the exact laws governing these mani¬
festations. The fact that many converts “backslide” when the
“revival” influence is gone, as many ministers have discovered and
acknowledged, is pointed to in illustration of the truth of the claim that
the “ power” that converts is the will of the revivalists and co-labourers
acting mesmerically. The law is undeniably of God, the central
Spirit, and therefore works equally well with Spiritualists, Methodists,
Unitarians, and all the Protestant sects, as well as with Catholics,
Jews, Mohammedans, or any of the adherents of any other faith. The
same conditions will always produce the same results.—Boston Herald,
{Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposea
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers."]
ll - REMAKKABLE TEST MEDIUMSHIP.
|i Sir,—It has often been remarked with regret that many of the best
11 facts of Spiritualism are lost to the world, because they occur in private
f i life, and under circumstances which do not admit of their being made
[ i public.
il The following interesting fact was related to me by a friend who
> I begged that the names connected with it should not be made known;
[| with this proviso, I am glad to say that I have the writer’s permission
I j to give it to the world. I quote from the letter in which it was written.
M “ Two days ago I received a most remarkable and conclusive proof of
c! the reality of spirit intercourse. Four or five days since (having been
II unwell for some time) I requested information and advice regarding my
) | state of health, and also information upon another point on which I
< | was anxious. About thirty-six hours’ later, I received a letter from a
) | friend of mine, a private lady medium, stating that she had been put
) | into a deep trance, and on waking up had found a letter before her,
11 addressed to me, which she enclosed. This letter contained complete
j j answers to all my questions as well as a Latin prescription (not one
) I word of which my friend understood), which I had made up immediately,
{I and from which I have derived the greatest benefit. I doubt whether
) i any earthly doctor could so completely have. met my necessity. I need
) j not tell you that the lady was perfectly ignorant of my requests, and I
(I therefore consider this as conclusive a proof of the reality and separate
j ] identity of our spirit friends as can possibly be given. My experience
) i is that nothing occurs at professional seances to be compared with what
(| is received through private mediums. Therefore, although I do not wish
) I my name published, you are perfectly welcome to mention the circum-
) | stance to your friends, and as you know me your authentication ought
(j to be sufficient. I only wish the world could know, as we do, that these
) I things, wonderful as they seem, are but stepping-stones to one great
) | end, the spiritualisation of man’s nature by the reception of the highest
(| influences which can descend from above into our inmost souls, raising
)! and purifying us from those dense material influences by which we are
) i surrounded in the world.” E. Kislingbury,
)j 38, Great Russell-street, London.
( !
(I CURIOUS ALLEGATIONS.
j I Sir,—Apropos to the leading article in The Spiritualist of last week,
j j it may interest you to know that a spirit purporting to come from the
) i planet Mars has for the last two years been a visitor of my friend Mrs.
) | Woodforde. This spirit has given his spiritual name, and its significa-
{I tion; also many words, and sentences of a language in use, he tells us,
) j by a portion of the inhabitants of Mars, and by some of the spirits from
) | that planet. He has given, as well, accounts of the moral character of
11 the inhabitants, of the nature of their worship, and temples. The spirit
(; is drawn to the earth from the fact that he is angel-guardian of the
); young son of a mutual friend. The son, we are informed, was in a
) i former existence an inhabitant of the planet Mars, and a sister of his,
)! who is an extraordinary natural clairvoyante, is also from the same
) | planet. No doubt much more could have been obtained from this spirit,
) I but time and opportunity have hitherto been lacking. We are, however,
) j promised a good deal more, which, with some very interesting informa-
) | tion upon reincarnation and cognate subjects, my friend hopes to
| j publish. Flora,
| Rome, March 27th,. 1877.
The Baroness Von Vay has sent Mr. Regan £2 towards a subscrip¬
tion list in favour of Mr. W. Wallace, medium.
Seance at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s.—On Wednesday evening
last week, at a materialisation seance at the house of Mrs. Makdougall
Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London, Mr. W. Eglinton
was the medium. Among the observers were Mrs. Gregory, Sir P.
Colquhoun, Lady Colquhoun, the Rev. C: Maurice Davies, D.D., Mrs.
Davies, Mrs. Wiseman, and Mr. Harrison. No manifestation occurred
under test conditions. An attempt was made to show Abdullah, the
spirit, and the medium at the same time, but as the former was not
clearly enough seen by anybody to permit of its being certified that he
had living flexible features, the effort failed.
Mrs. Weldon’s Sociable Evenings.—These meetings continue every
Monday evening at eight o’clock, without interruption, at Langham Hall,
43, Great Portland-street. The children of the Orphanage make visible
progress, and Miss Katie, just three years old, recites a long poem,
, The Spider of the Period,” every Monday, with clearness, and with
little gestures which greatly interest and amuse the audience. Mrs.
Weldon herself always sings. The Orphanage Hand-bell Ringers chime
national airs and village chimes. Mrs. Weldon has lately brought out
a successful bass song by one of the pupils, and the composer, sixteen
years old, himself sings it. Mr. and Mrs. Richard Blagrove and their
orchestra of concertinas, Mdlle. Hebert, a sprightly French comedienne,
Mr. George Grossmith, junr., Miss Masson, Mme. Schneegans, and
many others have appeared at these Monday entertainments. Part¬
singing is also one of the chief attractions. Next Monday, 9th April,
there will be a variety to the programme. Mr. Charles K. Salaman,
secretary to the Musical Association, takes the chair for Mr. Charles
Lunn, author of The Philosophy of the Voice, and other works on music
and art, who will read an essay called The Two Paths, or Conservation
and Restoration. He will speak on the merits of Mrs. Weldon’s singing
method, and take for examples of her successful treatment, the accom¬
plishments of her tiny brood.
168
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 6, 1877.
SPIRIT-RAPPING AMONG THE ANCESTORS OF MR. P.. A.
TAYLOR, M.P.
From the “Newcastle Chronicled
The Public Free Library of Newcastle has not yet got under way,
but from day to day its foundations are being laid. Contributions are
flowing in for its shelves from both sides of the Atlantic. Ere its home
can be reared by the architect, evidences are afforded of the wisdom of
providing, in every town over the land, suitable walls and apartments
within which the gifts of the generous may be received for the culture
and elevation of a community. Among the latest of these is the hand¬
some quarto volume by our side, extending to seven hundred illustrated
pages, entitled “ Some Account of the Taylor Family (originally Tay-
lard), compiled and edited by Peter Alfred Taylor, M.P.—London:
Printed for Private Circulation.—-1875.” Of the hundred copies printed,
one becomes the property of this town, where members of the family
once resided, and where (in 1859), the author, now Member for
Leicester, was a candidate for a seat in the House of Commons. The
book has copious illustrations; the photographer, allying himself with
the printer, has mingled pictorial leaves with the letterpress ; portraits
and coats of arms are numerous; written and printed pages that first
saw the light long, long ago, are given in facsimile, and lend a peculiar
interest and value to the memorial.
# * * # * *
The son and heir of Daniel Taylor is described, by way of distinction,
from others of the name as “ William Taylor the Dantzic Man.” Of
him there are two portraits, and also portraits of his two wives, Dorothy
Turner (whose paternal grandsire was woollen draper to Oliver Crom¬
well) and Rebecca Sherbrooke. There is a portrait, too, of Dorothy
Turner, his mother-in-law. His first marriage took place on the 6th of
March, 1673; and on the 7th of December there was a son born to him
in his absence, his young wife, but twenty years of age, dying in child¬
birth. The tale is touching, even after the lapse of two centuries,
freighted with all their wondrous history. Truly, “ it is difficult to read
the story without emotion”—difficult not to linger over it, and make the
incidents our own. The grandmother of the little orphan took the place
of its mother, and lovingly discharged the duties which death had
devolved upon her. In the first year of “ her dear Willie,” she writes
to the child’s father, “merchant in Dantzic,” telling him how he “ is
learning to kiss his hand.” She dwells upon the growing attractions of
the gentle “ babe with whom I am as happy as if I had. all the pleasure
in the world, and he begins to be as fond of me, only his teeth pull him
back from being a footman.” Her charge ceasing by the marriage of
her son-in-law with Rebecca Sherbrooke, in the month of August, 1676,
she commends her grandson in all love and simpleness of heart to his
new mother:—u Dear daughter, for so you must give me leave now to call
you, being now in the room and place of my poor daughter, especially as
t6 my son, and this dear httle jewel, which with this I now present to
you; and I hope your good disposition, of which I have heard very
much, will cause in you a great tenderness towards him, being the only
one of his dear mother; and the blessing of God be upon you all.” The
words are the more impressive because coming from a heart that had
first mourned the loss of a daughter, and was now widowed. Her
husband had died but a few months before ; and in her manuscript book
she wrote a poem beginning—
How is it, Lord, that one so weak as I
Should still survive, and do not sink and die ?
The burdens lately I have undergone
I have before e’en quaked to think upon.
’Tis not at all from any power in me,
But from the strength that I receive from Thee.
It is pleasant to find this devout sufferer, who could herself write verse
so well, quoting also one of the poets of her century. Among her own
lines, and those of her husband, she introduces a quaint stanza “ out of
Mr, Herbert”:—
Farewell, dear flowers ! sweetly your time ye spent,
Fit, while ye lived, for smell or ornament,
And after death for cures.
I follow straight without complaints or grief
Since, if my scent be good, I care not if
It be as short as yours.
Happy the mourner who could solace her mind with such sweet odours
of song ! And so, with her high thoughts, we leave this good gentle¬
woman of the seventeenth century.
William Taylor, of South Weald, the orphan child (who lived to an
advanced age), married Anne Crispe, niece of his master, Henry Sher¬
brooke, and thus united the Sherbrookes and the Taylors by blood, who
had before been allied by marriage. Her grandfather, Edward Crispe,
was so prominent in his period as to be chosen in 1651 to address Oliver
Cromwell on behalf of the Militia of London after his victory at Wor¬
cester ; and the speech, written in his neat, clear hand, is here printed
to the word and the letter. Henry, the son of William and Anne Taylor,
was sent to Queen’s College, Cambridge. He it was who grew up to
distinction in his day as a preacher and an author, the “ Ben Mordecai”
of the religious world.
The son of “ Ben Mordecai ” was also of Queen’s College, Cambridge,
and a clergyman. “ The following curious certificate,” says the author,
“ shows him to have been, in 1776, officiating as curate of Ashley, a
village in the neighbourhood of Crawley:—‘ Mary Shepherd, of the
parish of Crawley, maketh oath that the body of John Pinton was not
wrapped up when buried in anything but what was made of sheep wool
only. Sworn before me this 22 day of February, 1776. Henry Taylor,
curate of Ashley.’ ” In an explanatory foot-note, Mr. P. A. Taylor
refers to the Act 30 Charles II., cap. 3, which ordered that all the dead
should be shrouded in woollen stuffs. Passed for the encouragement
of the woollen trade, it was repealed in 1814. Pope (as Mr. Taylor
observes) refers to the statute in his well-known lines :—
ijj “ ‘ Odious! in woollen? ’twonld a saint provoke !’
jvj Were the last words that poor Narcissa spoke.”
j | Our forefathers regulated by statute the costume of the living and the
111 clothing of the dead. The year 1666 had its act for “ burial in woollen |’|
i) i and 1677 and 1680 had their amending enactments. “ Here,” says the
l|| parish register of Stockton, in August, 1678, “ the Act for burying in
|)| woollens takes place.” The statute states its intention to be “the
ij j lessening of the importation of linen from beyond the seas, and the
m encouragement of the woollen and paper manufactures.” The law,
jjj however, was not invariably observed. At St. Mary-le-Bow, in the
I j city of Durham, in December, 1678, Christopher Bell, Gent., “was
111 lapped in linen, contrary to the late Act.” At St. Oswald’s, too, in the
| j same city, Miss Faith Buck, in September, 1678, was “buried (but not
ijj in woollen).’’ Narcissa was spared from the intrusive statute.
[ j Our space wanes, and the claims upon what is left trouble us. Not a
jjj few of them must go unrecognised. “Ben Mordecai’’ was happy in
I j j having two sisters who wrote him capital letters. We can realise the
j j | pleasure with which they must have been received and read; we feel the
I j I disappointment which comes over us in omitting what we had marked
j j j for quotation. One long passage we can alone copy—a passage in which
j J j Rebecca Taylor makes report to her brother of a spirit-rapping exhibi-
i j j tion in the year 1762, when “ Fanny ” was a familiar ghost. The letter
i j | is thus “ of more general interest and value than those merely relating
I j to family matters: it gives an account of a spiritist seance,> of the last
i j century, which “ bears a quite startling resemblance to similar doings
ji of the present day, and,” Mr. Taylor remarks, “is on the whole satis-
j j factory, as showing that in our follies and superstitions we have not
j j retrograded since the days of our great-grandfathers.” Addressing the
j | Rev. Henry Taylor, at Crawley, near Winchester, Hants, his sister
j j says:—“ I have lately been at London, very near the Ghost of Fanny,
j! Yes! I have been among the believers, but could not help considering
(j myself an infidel, notwithstanding I was so near the spirit. Oh! that
) j all the clergy had but as much understanding in their whole composition
I as my brother has in his little toe. They would not then give in to
j such ridiculous nonsense. A friend of Mrs. French’s, a person of
j veracity, and whose integrity and honour she could depend on, was
present while the following farce was acting:—He was admitted
at ten o’clock one night, where he found about fifteen more per¬
sons, three of whom were reverends. The candle was immediately
I put out, and silence desired. Soon after, a soft rapping began,
and scratching; but not in an angry mood. One of the clergymen
declared the spirit was come, and asked if he should question it?
which was assented to, and accordingly he began. Fanny, are you
come ? to which one knock was given (which, you must know, is yes,
and two knocks is no). Are you willing to answer such questions as I
i , shall put to you ? if you are, give one knock; if not, give two knocks.
One knock given. He then proceeded with great solemnity to interro-
j gate this female ghost. Are you a spirit ? One knock. Are
| you a good spirit? One knock. Are you in a state of happi-
j ness? One knock. Are you in a state of progressive happiness?
I mean by that an increasing happiness? One knock. Are you
troubled in mind ? One knock. Have you injured any one ? Two
knocks. Has Mr. Parsons injured you ? Two knocks. Has his wife ?
! Two knocks. Did you die an unnatural death ? Two knocks. Some
i persons present having heard that the ghost came to reveal its being
j poisoned, were surprised at the answer to the last query; but the parson
gravely said it was his fault in not stating the question right: he there¬
fore would ask it again. Parson: Did you die a natural death ? Spirit
i gave two knocks. Were you poisoned ? One knock. Was it in beer,
tea, or purl ? Knocked for purl, What is it o’clock ? Gave ten knocks.
How many quarters after ? Two knocks. Some persons said the ghost
was. again out, for that it had gone three-quarters by St. Sepulchre’s
j chimes. The reverend gentleman answered that clocks might be faulty,
but by real time the spirit might be right. He then pursued his inter¬
rogation. Can I be of any service to you ? One knock. Would it
j appear that you died by poison if your corpse was taken up ? One
] knock, yes. Would it give you satisfaction if Mr. X. was hanged ? Yes.
, Will you appear in a court of justice if he should be prosecuted ? Yes,
j one knock. Is there no one here who comes to scoff? No. Do all
present come with a serious mind ? Yes. How many clergymen are in
I the room ? One knock. Parson: What! only one knock ? Then two
knocks. Some observed there were three clergymen in the room, to
which the parson judiciously observed that the third was a stranger, and
not in a canonical habit. Then Mrs. French’s friend asked if it could
tell the colour of the arsenic by which it was poisoned ? One knock,
yes. Was it red arsenic? Yes. . . Now am I convinced of the im¬
posture, for red arsenic hasj not the least poisonous quality in it ; ’tis
j white. I appealed to a physician present for my assertion. This was
j excused. How should a woman know such nice distinctions as to the
! colour ? Mrs. French’s friend: Pray, gentlemen, does she know that
she took arsenic at all ? She declared she lived but three hours after
taking it. It’s plain she did not know the taste, or she would not have
taken it. Upon this much altercation ensued, at which the spirit
showed great anger by scratching.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
E. J. (Holywell).—The “law of the conservation of energy ” is that “force
is never lost.” It is as indestructible as matter; it may be diffused, con¬
centrated, or transformed, but not annihilated.
R.—From the day it was first started until now, not a line has ever been in¬
serted in the literary part of this journal on payment for being placed there ;
corrupt journals of low character only, would so print things for remunera¬
tion. If a communication is of real value it is to the advantage of the journal
that it should be inserted, and to make a charge is defrauding the author;
if it be not of real Value, it is merely an act of cheating the readers to
substitute inferior for good matter for the sake of a money payment. i
April 6, 1877.
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
ualism, obtainable of W; H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London; W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected witn each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent bopk of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced hy spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two- years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting, spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANCHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spintualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERG ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums /.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Yol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or .the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. Ring. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
offamous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Ratie Ring, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and Vocience; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Sims; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will he by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 21s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a|trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,”' published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s, 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. Od...
THE SPIRITUALIST.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORMiiMIGHTY WORRS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. t
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. Ring. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. ed.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT.. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by WilMam Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
. 7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
• MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 8s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By 0. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. fid.) 4s.
HI
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Yois.| 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II. . • ’
The Seer. „ III, ,,
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . ,
The Thinker. „ V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arahula, or Divine Guest . • .
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims , .
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
s. d.
15 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 9
7 6
3 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
2 0
3 6
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
2 0
3 U
7 6
6 0
7 6
7 6
6 O
6 0
2 0
3 O
7 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
z d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . .... .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 O
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 0
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge.D.D. . . . , . 10 0
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism.
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Ansesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . . ,30
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools . , , . 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1, Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM ,.,ENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas E.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE 4OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds »ys of
this little pamphlet: “ There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, "by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALT, ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
April 6, 1877,
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description, of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the" Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Prica ls.; post free.Is. Id.
88, Great Russell Street, London, W.C*
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of' the Press.
“ As a dispassionate scientiflo man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes1 and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness' of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of. the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or- forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Pigaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public, are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News'
Limp cloth, red edges. . Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H, Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
By Royal Letters Patent
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OP THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
* IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
.and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable, preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloahe-square, S.W.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and-SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
■ facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
, Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
1 Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
• our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
. phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postag '4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit-
1 ualism.' It consists of a carefully, selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
IFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
J by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
SPIRITUALISM:
New Works on its Phenomena, Philosophy, and
Present Position.
BY “ M.A. (OXON.) ”
. I HAVE been frequently asked to publish a book on Spirit¬
ualism. The facilities which I have enjoyed for personal
investigation, my acquaintance with the literature of the
subject and with prominent workers in it, and the attention
that I have paid to the investigation of its various phases, have
seemed to many to fit me for such a duty.
It is easier asked than done. A book on Spiritualism, if it
did but sketch the,subject, should be very voluminous; and,
when written, it would be found to omit more than it dis-
eiissed or-recorded. I cannot write sucfy a book; nor do I
think it desirable that any such attempt should be made in the
present state of bur knowledge. ■
jjj But I do think it very important that any person who has
special facilities for observation should use them, and record
their results as best he1 can. In this belief; I have kept careful
records of what I have seen, and from time to time have pub¬
lished Essays and Reviews on the published opinions of others.
I have also printed a number of chapters of Personal Research
in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism, and have
selected, from a mass that have been automatically written out,
certain Spirit-teachings.
I propose to collect and complete these works.
First, I wish to print a volume of Essays and Reviews.
It will contain, in addition to a number of Reviews of works
of standard American authors—Olcott, Sargent, Tuttle,
Crqwell, and others—and a long Essay on the Transcorporeal
Action of Spirit, which have already appeared, much original
matter not yet published. A special feature of the book will
be the introduction to general readers of the best books on
Modern Spiritualism.
The volume will be published at 10s. if sufficient names are
enrolled as subscribers to show that such a book is -wanted,
l and will pay expenses. I decline pecuniary risk.
I propose hereafter (but not now) to issue two other works,
—one “ Spirit Teachings,” dealing with the religious aspect
of the question; the other, “ Researches in the Phenomena
and Philosophy of Spiritualism,” dealing with the whole
subject in its experimental phases, and with the theory and
philosophy of it. • These will come in due time if they find
a place.
. For the present I put forward only “Essays and Reviews.”
The following friends have kindly formed themselves into a
committee with a view of carrying out business arrangements.
Those to whose name * is prefixed will receive names of
Subscribers, and Mr. Percival, the Treasurer, will receive
subscriptions as they become due.
Details of publication will be given when it becomes clear
that the book will meet a demand. Unless a sufficient number
of copies—about 500—be subscribed for I shall consider that
it is not wise to print.
I respectfully beg that no business letters may be sent to
me, as my time is already overtaxed.
“M.A. (OXON.)."
Names of Committee.
♦Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-sq., W.
Mrs. Fitz-gerald, 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde Park, W.
*Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s Park, N.W.
*S. T. Speer, Esq., 13, Alexandra-road, N.W.
*0. C. Massey, Esq., 96, Portland-place, W.
T. Shorter, Esq, .23, Prince of Wales’-road, N.W.
*B. Coleman, , Esq., 1, Bernard-villas, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood. '■
F. W. Percjival, Esq., 15, Conduit-street, Bond-street, W„
Treasurer, to whom all Names are to be sent in,
together with all subscriptions when payable.
Subscribers who do not wish their names to be published,
should inform Mr. Percival to that effect.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles. in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found*in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid'confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
-three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
. speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
.each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?’’ When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
^virtues and all the failings of humanity.
THE SPIRITUALIST FUND.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION FOR 1877 AND 1878.
£
Le Comte de Bullet        go
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq ”!...!"!!"!! 20
Martin R. Smith, Esq  20
Alexander Tod, Esq,   15
Charles Blackburn, Esq.  "■ To
Alexander Calder, Esq.   10
N. F. Dawe, Esq     10
G. ;C. Joad, Esq     FT V” jq
The Hon. A, Aksakof in
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D....   10
Sir Charles Isham, Bart s   *  no
m. r. i.      ;;;; 10
James Mylne, Esq.  10
X mt      jo
O. T   |   5
George Sutherland, Esq      5
T. E. Partridge, Esq   ...;  5
Thomas Grant, Esq    5
The Countess of Caithness  5
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun       5
A Friend           5
B       3
Mrs. E. Dixon   2
The Rev. W. Whitear     2
Dr. Baikie     2
Miss Whitear    2
Hensleigh Wedgwood. Esq., MJEt.I   2
Mrs. Lowe        2
S. J. H.        2
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S    2
W. C. PickersgUl, Esq  2
W.    : .      2
G. Y.      2
S. T. Speer, Esq., M.D     2
W. M. Buchanan, Esq., M.D    2
A. Vacher, Esq      2
Colonel Olcott   2
The Baroness von-Vay   1
George Lee, Esq      l
G. R. Tapp, Esq    1
Mrs. Maltby          1
B. W. Pycock, Esq ....:   1
Mrs. Nosworthy  1
O. T. Hook, Esq    1
Major Menars         1
A. Glendinning, Esq       1
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S    1
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.TeLE.    1
Mrs. Hennings -     1
Dr. George Wyld       1
Miss Allen...- ;  1
W. P. Adshead, Esq ;  1
John Mould, Esq      1
J. P. Turner, Esq.      1
J.T. Dodd, Esq .:.....  1
Mrs. Jeffreys ...'.  ;.... 1
Miss Douglas      1
John Scott, Esq........    1
J. 0. Ferguson, Esq.    1
A. 0. Swinton, Esq  1
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory    4... 1
Mrs. Tyndall  ;. 1
Lieut.-Col. Jacoby        1
John Chapman, Esq   : '.  1
G. F. Green, Esq     0 10
Mrs. E. K. Beeby    0 10
R. Catling..     '  0 10
E. R        0 10
J. Hare, Esq    0 10
M. J. Walhouse, Esq   .*  0 10
A Friend         0 10
A Friend   0 10
T. H .:...    0 10
Miss Pearce ;  0 5
J. T. M        0 5
Subscriptions to this Fund should be remitted to W. H
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
\ NNALI DELLO SPIRITISM© IN ITALIA.
JljL —Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
WANTED.—A LADY MEDICAL CLAIR-
voyante, for the Diagnosis of Disease. Apply to
Mrs. Burke, 8, Upper Bedford-place, Russell-square, W.C.
A GENTLEMAN, a powerful developing
MEDIUM, is now open to receive ladies and gentlemen
of position for private development for the various phases of
mediumship. For terms apply,'injflrst instance, by letter only,
with real name and address, to C. James, 2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
hecause.it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, 'and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of. this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday's issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wedtesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd. >
City Publishing Office, E. W. Alien’s. 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn
in the Parish of St. Andrew- above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
