&HS) joif^NSi<
0^ P^YdSEOlKOG^ldS^ ^di^Kc55<-
C{xe #I^st Jl^tosap^r toiler Spiritualism in <&xmi Britain.
THE "SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places:—LONDON: n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: 246, Boulevard
des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Rivi.ra di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LI GE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : " Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 207.-—(VOL. IX.—No. 2.) LONDON: FRIDAY, ATJGrTJST 11, 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
The Affection'll Nature of Man   ...   13
Incidents in the Life of Andrew Jackson Davis:—The
Dutchman’s Ghost—Davis’s First. Psychological Expe¬
riences—The Sensations of a Mesmeric Sensitive 13
Heinrich Heine:—An Apparition's Opinion of Ghosts—
Spiritual Slavery—A Prophecy—The Leper 16
The Last Days of Miss Martineaa. By Henry G. Atkinson,
F.G.S ' ... :  ... .'.  ... ... 17
The Testimonial to Andrew Jackson Davis  ■ ...18
A hitting with Dr. Slade. By Edward W. Cox, Serjeant-
at-Law, President of the Psychological Society of Great
Britain... ...   ... o  ■   Jg
A Seance with Dr. Slade. By C. Carter Blake, Doct. ScL ... 19
A Spirit Message purporting to ccme from Charles Bravo.
By William H. Harrison...' ...    ... ...   19
Correspondence: —Manifestations in the West of England
through Mr. Eglinton’s Mediumship—The Court Journal
on Spiritualism and Spiritualists—Kardec's Book of
Mediums—Suggested Tests—“The Stolen Picture”—
A Seance in Paris—The Education of Children—Free
Wisdom—Dante on the Soul—“ S J. Sahel, Esq.”—
Spiritualism and Men of Science—What are Work-?—
North of England Spiritualists’ Conference Committee 20
Psychological Experiences of Mrs. Woodhull jf ... 22
Objections to Spiritualism   ... ... ... ...23
A Remarkable Materialisation Seance in Newcastle ... ... 23
Spiritualism and Physicists 24
Spiritual Manifestations in Daylight... ... ...   24
Spiritual Lectures in Liverpool     ... 24
Answers to Correspondents   24
Paragraphs:—Lecture in Newcastle, 23; The Spiritualist
Scientific Research Committee ...   23
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained S00 subscribers at 5a It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “ Souvenir,” Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie"
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the beneBt of the Orphanage. Gifts • f old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavlstock-square, W.C.
East London spiritdal meetings.-
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o’clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 80, Southampti n-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated peiiods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts. Interest allowed
bn the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes-
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kardec. Translated by Anna
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 4<6, cloth, 7s. 6d.
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyoho-
logiquos, fondb par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
Of every mon'b. Price, 1 franc. Published b> the SociiU
Anonvme. 7. Rue de Lille. Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
] > EAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
V Life-Experiences, Scenes. Incidents, and Conr.it.ions
illustrative uf Spliit-Life *nd the principles o' the Spiritual
Phil"S pby Ot pract cal value to any who are anxious to
study the theoiies ut Spii iiualiatg and tsedium-, lorihepnrtose
of deducing a con sin em. system of fai'h corn ermug the
future, its rewards and punbhmei ts &c., as it establishes a
basis in teason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. Fifft Cloth,
5s. 9d. Sfriritwliit &«Yr9p&{>er branch office.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists,
President
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
Barrlster-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Council
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse.
Honorary Secretary and Treasurer :—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms:—INavarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
Extracts from Prospectus.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by vanous means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.46 p.m. to which Members are admitted, as well
as members of similar Associations which reciprocate similar
rivilege. Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary seance
eld on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted
to special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions,
reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to
which strangers are admitted under the same regulations as are
enforced on the first Thursday evening in each month. Tickets for
such ordinary meetings as may be of general interest, in connection
with the “ Brixton Psychological Society,” are also placed at the
disposal of Members of the Association by that Society in reciprocity
of the privilege granted by the Association to similar organisations.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances ol
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines ar
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
The alliance existing between this association and the “ British
National Association of Spiritualists " will greatly assist the mem¬
bers in their inquiries, as amongst the objects for which that
Association was established in 1873 are the following., viz.:
To aid students and inquirers in their researches into certain
phenomena, known as Spiritual or Psychic: to assist in giving
publicity to the results of such researches: to afford information to
inquirers into these subjects, by correspondence and otherwise: and
to collect statistical facts respecting Spiritualism.”
All communications to be addressed to the Honorary Secretary,
at the Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A
stamped addressed envelope should be enclosed in all letters re¬
quiring replies. Copies of the prospectus, rules, circle regulations,
directions " how to form spirit circles,” and catalogue of books in
the library, with any further information, can be obtained on appli¬
cation.
Subscription for Ordinary Memberships—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.: quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable In advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
Leigh spiritualists* association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh Lancashire
PRIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Booms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, Is.ljd.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal,
appears on the 1st and 15th of every month. Price
2d., or 5 francs yearly. Belgium—37. Rue Florimont, Lifege.
London—The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
REFLEXIONEN aus der geister-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communioations given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Jofohtadt, 23, ErzherzogAlexandergusse. London:
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branca Office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the f'piritual Philosophy in the
world 1 It>sued v. eekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The banner s a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
aud instruc ivo reading, embracing a lit rary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; edi orial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, <kc., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 88, Great Ru&sell-street, London, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.,
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism aud occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, but not of the lending
library. . .
Free seances for inquirers h we been instituted through the
liherslity of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained thiough any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable reoms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
v ith cabinet, &c., and also f .r committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided a* moderat- ch rges.
Inquirers and fo eign SpM uabsts visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any in ormation in her power.
Communications should be address-ed to 'he re-ident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 88 Great Ru«sell-sc eet, W.C„
and Post office orders made payable at the Great Russell-sueet
Post-office.
LIBERTY HALL. 19, Church street. Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances. &c.: Sundays. Healing, at 11 a tn.,
Sei vice at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Seance at 8 p.m.; Is. Friday./Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Glass at
8 p.m.; subscribers only.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBBARY of Scitmifie
and Spiritual Literature. 157, Bute road, Cardiff. Tbia
L’brary is opened Free by b. Sadler, Spiritui ist, f«>i the loan
of boobs, and having placed for this purpose the wbol- of his
private library, consisting ot 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he wouln thank friends io assist him b< bo
gilt or loan of books assuring them thai such are nee< ed in
Cardiff, where the popu at on is nearly 80.00/, and very litilo
Is known of the gieat truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR. AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HA'R ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may he proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC’’ an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for tho
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 8s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rousk, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. l&.—Spiritudlist Newspaper
Branca Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist New-paper Branch Office. • •
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The
Spiritualist, FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions ot
Printing. Estimates forwarded on application.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Aug. 11, 1876.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
OP
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, rhomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19; Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hiU, Balham, S.W.
Hltchmaiij William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islmgton-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 82, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.X., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
- • ': -   Council. 1 •
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Helper.  
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Chapman, John, 10, iVunkeld-streOt, Liverpool.
Chtunerv, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Hollaim-road, Kensington, W.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., H, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall,Richmond-UUl.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosiand, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., I/ynwooti, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T, H-, 7,.Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Liliau-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cohden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham. Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton,
ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-st'reet, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.O.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1; King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., .20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs,, 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
- road,S E ■ ■ : . .
Strawbrldge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South KeU-
- singtqn, S'.W.
S trawbi'idge, Mrs. G. N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.. I
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W. '
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J„ Hemlock-house, Leeds..
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace,Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs.,1!, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
M. F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa. 1
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
- U.S.A. •
Mrs. J. M. Snear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 6, Rue de la Terrassfe, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston; U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St.Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de i’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D.,Uition Springs, Cayuga Co., NewYork, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.-
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Hallock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Musee des Beaux Arts, Rue Tangier, Algiers.
. , , A Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—George Browne,
Esq., 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
L’Union Spirits etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola. Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—hi Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
THE LIYEEPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
IVestdent.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.-^ULv. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitehman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,'
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
{, discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July-, 1876.  I : - •
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Arc, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
-Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6b.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Seances at 61, Lamb’s Conduit-street, on Monday and Thursday
evenings (Strangers admitted only upon producing a written
introduction from a well-known Spiritualist); arid Saturday
evenings, for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as above.
N.B.—Mr. Williams is a.t present on the Continent.
Mrs. woodforde, trance, healing,
' AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing. Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship French spoken. At
home Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays.
Private Seances attended. Address 90, Great Russell-street,
Bloomsbury, W.O.
Notice.—Physical seances with a first-class medium held on
Thursday and Saturday evenings of each week, Admission
by introduction, Fee 5s. Arrangements may also be made
for private physical seances.
JT. RHODES, MEDIUM, is willing to. help
• in the formation of Private Circles, and give every
information to Inquirers, within a radius of twenty miles of
Newcastle. Address, 30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle-on-
Tyne.
MISS CHANDOS eradicates Consumption,
Cancer, Insanity, Dypsomatua, Nervous and Infantile
Diseases. £1 per visit (within three miles), including specifics.
By post, monthly, £2 2s.
Full instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-biology, postal
and private, 17, Brunswick square, W.O.
M
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
RS. OLIYE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatment by clair¬
voyant. Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and other phases as
usual. Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, but Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
MR.. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or die provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MR. WILLIE EGLINTON, MEDIUM,
• can be engaged for seances, morning or evening. Ad¬
dress, Mr. Willie Eglinton, St. James’s House, Waltham¬
stow.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the Great
American Somnambuli it, Spiritual Clairvoyante, and
Test Medium, whose reputation is well-known throughout
Europe and America. Hours, 1 till 8 p.m' Terms, one guinea.
Miss Fowler does not reply to correspondence, nor see visitors
on Sunday. Address—2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square,
London, W.C.
MRS, BURKE is about to hold PDBLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8 o’clock; to commence on Friday, tne 15th
inst. E. W. Wallis, medium for trance eommunieations. Other
seances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance for refined physical manifestations, with a first-class
medium, will be held on the Wednesday evenings of each1
week, for a few weeks only. Fee 5s.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.' ■
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr, H. Cook. Mr. Morel! Theobald.
1 Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, GreatRussell-street, Bloomsbury,
' London, W,C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Ills Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia. —
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General-de S M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rbine, near Wiesbaden
Shined R&ssim Pacha, Khan de Rasslm Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
• Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
Tlie Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2b, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a-Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksauof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. ‘Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ghamps-Eiysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co„New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
. U.S.A. .
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev.. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey In Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia,
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634,Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
m Crowell, Esq.,.M.D., i86, CUnton-ftyenue, Brooklyn, New York,
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rpHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a,very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest,
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-
rdw.
Just Published. -Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A praetioal suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
LONDON:—SlMBKIN, MARSHALL & CO.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAYAL FORCES,
8, HANOYER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
THE DUPLEX FUNERAL CAR,
With silvered floral ornaments, violet mouldings, &c., used
(open or closed) at funerals conducted in accordance with the
views of Spiritualists, by
S. HATOHARD , AND CO.,
Furnishing Undertakers, Carriage Proprietors, Sc.
Chief Office: 47, Crawford Street, Bryanston
Square, W.
.. Personal attendance at any address on receipt of letter or
telegram. *
PROFESSOR JAMES REGAN, Psychopathic
Healer, 37, Hart-street, Bloomsbury-square, London,
W.C.
. Attendance given personally from 12 to 4 daily, Saturdays
excepted. No attenOance given on that day. Terms in ac¬
cordance with patient’s means. Patients attended at their
qwn residences by appointment.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
, VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street,, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for. 6d.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from II a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee,’2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
A LADY of Culture, having passed a hospital,
is anxious to obtain an engagement as MONTHLY
NURSE, where no menial work is required. Reference to
Medical man. Terms five guineas a month, or according to
circumstances. Apply to the -Secretary, British National
Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.
W ANTED by a Young Lady a situation as
COMPANION to a Lady Medium and Clairvoyant.
Would not object to trance.—T.Y., 16, Stafford-street, Maryle-
bone-road, W.
^NOOD CHAMBERS or FURNISHED
VJT APARTMENTS to LET. Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beef-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6i
guineas a week for four months. References given and re-
•quir6d. A, B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight.
J. Ipffp tl lt$ xJ % mb sf p
Yoj-ujvie Kijhe. Kumber Two.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 11th, 1876.
THE AFFECTIONAL NATURE OF MAN.
There is a special tendency in Spiritualism to draw the
attention of its more thoughtful followers to the study
of the affections, their cultivation, and their abuse. The
savage, who is deeply imbued with an animal nature and
animal passions, usually delights in cruelty, revels in
war and bloodshed, and is unable to cultivate his feeble
intellectual powers to any great extent. Above this level
in the scale of creation is civilised man; kinder and more
thoughtful in his nature than his savage ancestor, he,
by the cultivation of the intellectual rather than the
animal faculties, has evolved the arts and sciences, as well
as higher forms of religion, and done much to ameliorate
the condition of the globe on which he lives. But has he
studied and cultivated the affections? Very little. The
man who knocks down and robs his neighbour cannot hold
up his head in a civilised community, but if he achieves
the same end by slower and far more painful intellectual
processes, he can still shine in society. Indeed, it is
doubtful whether the old-fashioned highwayman who robbed
people of what valuables they had about them on a breezy
heath, was not a more estimable person than a shady
member of the legal profession, who ruins the widow and
the fatherless by strictly lawful and highly intellectual
methods. In the latter case deep and serious misery may
be spread over a long period; in the former example there
is an exciting adventure, resulting in a temporary loss, with
the gain of an interesting tale to narrate during the re¬
mainder of life.
Everywhere in England at the present day intellectual
savagery is rampant. In the fight for existence or social prece¬
dence every man is treading down his neighbour. In the Legisl a-
ture the- landowners and lawyers who compose it retain edicts
on the Statute Book for the special advantage of their kind,
to the injury of the nation at large. In the theological
world are various churches, which, to use the words of
Artemus Ward, a worship in their own way, and try to pre¬
vent their neighbours from worshipping in their’nand not
long ago was the sight frequently witnessed of one sect
seizing the goods and chattels of another by the aid of law
and police, and laying the proceeds on the altar of the Lord,
who must have duly appreciated the generous gift. In the
world of science we see men using what power they have
gained by noble works, in treading down new and unpopular
truths. In the trading community is untruthfulness, adul¬
teration of goods, and the selling of inferior articles as those
which they are not, to an unlimited extent; finally, in the
working classes may be seen distrust of each other, repudia¬
tion of the principle of right of property in thought, envy
and dislike of those who, by virtue of higher intellectual
powers, are fairly entitled to the higher positions they hold.
In short, although physical savagery is almost abolished in
civilised communities, intellectual savagery is rampant, the
brains of every man being exerted against his neighbour.
Upon this prevalent condition of mind the truths of
Spiritualism fall like rain from heaven. Spirit messages,
however intellectually faulty many of them may be, as a
general rule breathe love—love—nothing but love. Says the
materialist—“ Why do you not tell us how to utilise this
new force ? Why do you utter such platitudes about love ?
We knew all that before ? ” Did they ? Where is the evi¬
dence of it in society ? What mean those guns which great
and intellectual nations are by the aid of science construct¬
ing everywhere for the destruction of their kind? Is it not
high time that voices from a higher stage of existence
should make known that there are higher realms in the
universe, where those who have not governed their great in¬
tellects by true affections cannot enter until their mistakes
111 oh earth in this respect are repaired by long and painful pro-
j | | cesses ? 1 '1
i | But recently we heard of a marriage which had been
111 planned between a duke aged three, and an heiress slightly
|) | older; that is to say, that parents and guardians, totally
111 ignorant of the true causes of human happiness and misery,
111 were scheming the union of two immortal souls, which will
||| be, in all probability, totally unfitted for each other. And in
II a lesser degree, how much teaching by precept and example
! | comes down from parents to children now-a-days, that
j-1 material conditions are everything, and that to them the
|jj| brightest jewels of the spirit—the affections—must be Cruci-
I (■ | fied. Yet the misery resulting from this is to be seen every-
III where, and in nearly every gilded home in this country may be
jvj heard cries of pain which reach J[only the ears of those
ill intimate friends who are privileged to see the truth concealed
j ) I beneath the outside show. When in the home circle all the
| I affections are in harmony, earth is a paradise; in those homes
I | where affection exists not, no wordly advantages can make
| j | atonement for the presence of the grim skeleton ever in the
[I house. The highest ideas which man can receive are those
| | which influence his religious nature, consequently in true
111 unions there is usually similarity of religious ideas, enabling
ill both to travel far together without separation, even in the
| | great thought-world beyond the grave. The teachings
111 handed down to us from darker * and more ignorant ages,
I > | usually fail to give true ideas about the real causes of happi-
I i ness and misery in life, and about the cultivation of true
| | affections, as not a few of the readers of these lines know to
111 their lifelong sorrow.
| INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS.
Now that the testimonial to Andrew Jackson Davis, the
II (l Seer of Poughkeepsie,” is before the public, it may not
11 be uninteresting to quote a few incidents from the story of
I his life. Full particulars are contained in his book entitled
||| The Magic Staff, which is one of the most interesting
[ j | specimens of autobiography ever printed. He was born at
111 Blooming Grove, Orange County, in the State of New York,
II on the 11th of August, 1826. His father, half weaver, half
I | shoemaker, was of intemperate habits, and his mother, a
I j I quiet, patient, yielding woman, was not strong in health, and
j I had to contend with many troubles. When Andrew Jackson
| i Davis was quite a child, his father and mother took up their
|| residence at Straatsburg, not far from Rheinbeck, on the
1| farm of a good-natured Dutchman of the name of Bart
111 Cropsey. On the farm was a journeyman farmer named
j; Dave, of whom Andrew Jackson Davis tells the following
i ||| anecdote.
| ( I THE DUTCHMAN’S GMCSt.
j At this time my mind began to take an interest in the
II j varied changes and hues of human faces. As yet but few
III persons had made a place for themselves in my memory,
111 Before this date I do not recollect seeing rnore than four iu-
111 dividuals besides our family triangle. I do not say “ family
II j circle,” because for the most part, my parents were stationed
III at opposite points, while the children (my eldest sister,
j \ | Eliza, more especially) stood, as by a logical necessity, at the
111 third point; thus forming, by a kind of spontaneous
| > j geometry, a complete three cornered family alliance, out of
| {j which a circle was never more than foreshadowed and indi-
| j I cated as a bare possibility, in certain hours of domestic
I j | spheroidal communion.
j j j The existence of this condition could not fail to impress
j j I me painfully. My infant tongue was, perhaps, never moved
1 *' with words of rebuke, which I thought were many times
Ana. 11, 1876.
U THE SPIRITUALIST.
deserved, but this cannot be recorded of my mouth; for
whenever I thought that mother was troubled by father’s
moods, I could not restrain a propensity to cry loudly and
lustily, and thus restore them to comparative unity by means
of my counter irritation.
Uncle Bart Oropsey’s hired man seemed very fond of visiting
at our house. Through the deepening twilight we frequently
saw him coming down the indistinct wagon-track toward
our habitation. But he made his visits too early and late,
as well as too frequent, to please even the generous Dutch¬
man; therefore, after numerous remonstrances, “ Dave” (as
he was called) made up his mind to go home earlier. But
what he termed “ earlier” was to me very late indeed. Often
and often I strained my eyes to keep awake during his stay,
but sleep would steal over me at length, and the next morn¬
ing’s sun would sometimes shine ere the deep slumber of
childhood was again broken. It will be remembered that
our u reception room” contained our kitchen, our bed¬
chamber, and our shoemaker’s shop; it was for this reason,
tha,t whenever visitors were there it became a rather delicate
matter for any member of the family to undress and retire
for the night. Hence we all rejoiced when Uncle Bart
entered his positive protest against Dave’s long nocturnal
visitations. But our joy was ere long greatly diminished
by his apparent forgetfulness of the old man’s injunction,
Indeed, in a few days his visits commenced as early and
terminated as late as ever.
One black and dreary night, which I well remember, the
journeymen farmer left us later than usual. The autumnal
wind whistled round about the old house, “ and music made
of melancholy sort.” There was a moon in th( sky, but it was
almost totally obscured by the threatening clouds. If there
had been shutters on our windows, swinging and slamming
their rusty hinges, it would, without doubt, have aug¬
mented yet more the doleful melody of the storm and dark¬
ness.”
“ Ain’t you afraid to go home, Dave ? ” asked my father.
“ No, not I,” he courageously returned, “ I’ve walked all
through the woods in more’n one dark night! So good
night all !”
“ There, he’s gone at last,” said Eliza: “ now let’s go to
bed.” The motion was seconded by all hands, and, in a
few minutes, we were all undercover, except father, who, as
he said, had a shoe to finish.” We were just on the verge
of sleep, when there came a loud knocking at the outside of
the window accompanied with — “Hallo! hallo; I say,
Mr. Davis, come out quick.”
The only light in the room was made by the wick of
father's exhausted tallow candle, flickering on a stick’s end
before him; but which, owing to a false move of his hand,
was immediately extinguished, leaving the panic-struck
family in poor plight to render assistance. Nothing daunted,
however, father opened the outer door, and demanded :
“ What’s the matter? ”
There stood poor Dave quaking and trembling with fright,
scarcely able to utter a sentence; but, presently, he stam¬
mered out:
“ I’ve seen a thundering spook—or a—something white!
“ Where d’you see it?”
“ By the big oak tree, up in the comer of the woods,
where the littie slab bridge is 1 ”
“ What does it look like ? ”
“ Like a thundering great man, dressed in grave-clothes !
Can’t you go with me till I get past the thing, Mr.
Davis ? ”
“ Well; I’ll see,” said father, “ Let’s hunt up a lantern;
I guess we’ve got one.”
While father was preparing to go with Dave, we all de¬
clared that we couldn’t and wouldn’t stay alone; and, acting
under the speed of fright, the four of us (mother, Eliza,
Julia Ann, and myself) got quickly dressed and ready to
turn out in the gloomy darkness. It was all alarmingly
new to me. I had not heard of a “thundering spook”
before, and I felt no little curiosity to see one. Perhaps I
was also very much frightened; if so, ’twas more than
balanced by the novelty of the object about to be seen, and
hence, keeping tight hold of my mother’s hand, on I trotted
“ in the footsteps of our illustrious predecessors,” father and
the farmer, r
i“ What’s a spook, mother?” I pantingly asked, while
j running rapidly by her side.
“ Oh, ’taint nothin’ to hurt us,” she replied, “ ’tis some-
j thin’ that means somethin’, if one knows how to take it
| right.”
Not satisfied with this explanation, I inquired—
“ How does it look?”
“ Hush—hark—keep still—hold yer tongue—can’t you? ”
| vociferated Eliza, “ a body can’t hear nothing for your ever-
I lastin’ clackin’.”
But lowering my voice, I continued to interrogate,
| “ Mother, what did Dave mean by a thundering spook ? ”
“ 0, never mind. Dave’s a wicked man. I’ll tell you
| to-morrow.”
By this time, as the slackened pace of the vanguard indi¬
cated, our party had nearly reached the point of interest.
1 Father made a voluntary declaration of scepticism and
| heroic fearlessness. Whereupon Dave, being inspired with
| fresh courage, drew up a verbal resolution to the effect that
I Jie wouldn’t run now even if left alone. Didn’t care for
| the “ thundering thing ” when he first got a glimpse of it.
I Came back after us merely out of good nature, to have some
I fun. And, so declaring, the ploughman struck up a bold,
I courageous don’t-care-alive whistle ; which, to tell the truth,
| made but very little impression on the rude blasts of wind
I that came roaring through the woods in the direction of the
| open country.
But as if ’twere designed, at this frightful and momentous
I crisis, out popped the great round-faced moon from behind
! its clouded curtain, and wonderful to behold! just by the
! dilapidated bridge, right against the great oak tree, there
I stood towering up in the darkness, a monstrous form—
| enveloped in a snow-white sheet, with a hat on its head, and
I its apparent arms flying and flapping frantically in the
howling tempest.
“ Good gracious! ” exclaimed Dave—“ D’you see that ? ”
As he said this he stepped back so quickly against us that
| three-fourths of our party were thrown violently to the
I ground. This accident took immediate effect, in giving
! each the terrible impression of having been struck by the
j ghostly monster, and accelerated by the motive force of this
| horrid thought, our mutual retreat resembled the flight of
j John Gilpin. As for me I must confess that my opinion
ji was expressed by an unbroken yell of agonising fear, which
i j added not a little to the awful condition of the fleeing quar-
| ! tette, headed by the more than ever affrighted Dave*
“ Stop ! Hold on ! ” cried father, who was just in our rear,
j I “ what are you running away for? Come back! Let’s ask
! the spook what it wants there.” Obediently we halted.
||i The elder heads planned a battle, and then all cautiously
i j returned. When within hailing distance my father shouted,
| “ Hallo there, what’s wanted? ”
We were silent a moment, which seemed a great while, but
I no answer came.
“ Hallo, I say, who are you ? What d’you want ? ”
Autumnal blasts, full of strange sounds, gave back the
! only response. Father’s candle, too, was nearly out in his
| lantern, and the fitful moon kept up a constant dodging in
j and out of the heavy folds of the storm king’s drapery,
| hence our prospect was fast becoming very dark and
I doubtful. But my father’s intrepid conduct, on this occasion,
! inspired me with a particular respect for him.
“ Pooh ! nonsense! If you don’t answer me, I’ll knock
| your brains out with this ’ere stone,” said he impatiently,
I picking up a big pebble.
And sure enough, to our great consternation, away flew
! his missile, and down came the ghostly hat I Obeying
| orders we did not “ budge a yard; ” but witnessed, with
| rapidly increasing courage, the bombardment and demolition
! of the white spook. And I believe the reader’s disappoint-
| ment will not be more provoking than was ours, when I
] record that some mischievous individual, knowing that Dave
| frequented our house and returned that way late every night,
• had wrapped up a bundle of straw in an old sheet, with Uncle
| Bart Cropsey’s broad-brimmed hat to indicate where a head
i might have been.
Our party returned home in fine spirits, and slept undis-
i turbed the remainder of the night. ’Tis my belief that the
’ experience and discovery of that memorable hour has had an
Aug. 11, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
tmmistakeably wholesome effect upon my organ of marvel-
lousness, which is said by phrenologists to exert only a very
moderate and secondary influence on my mental organisation.
Methinks Providence could not have better prepared my
mind for investigating and discriminating between genuine
spiritual personages and fallacious apparitions, than by this
midnight encounter with the phantom man of straw.
DAVIS’S FIRST PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIENCES.
When quite a child Andrew Jackson Davis was put to
work in a corn-field, and he thus describes his first psycho¬
logical experience:—
I became quite handy with the hoe, and so had a day’s
work marked out for me. One extremely warm day, how¬
ever, when I chanced to be left alone at my appointed task,
in the middle of a twenty acre cornfield, my attention was
arrested by the sound of sweet, low, and plaintive music.
It seemed to emanate from the airy space above me, and
had a pathos like the sighing of autumnal winds. Being far
away from trees and human habitations, its source was un¬
accountable. Unlike anything I had ever before heard, it
appeared to be breathing in the very fibres of my brain;
yea, through the substance of my inner being and throbbing
heart, awakening there the tenderest emotions, and filling
my juvenile mind with loving sympathies towards the
unknown human world. Previous to this moment, I had
entertained no enlarged affection for strangers. The idea of
loving anybody not loved by my immediate relatives, or of
disliking persons who were openly recognised as the friends
of our humble little household, never appeared to me before
this as being other than natural and praiseworthy. Indeed,
my sympathies and antipathies, like those of uneducated
youth generally, were bound by the selfish affinities of the
family group. But now there was born in me an inexpres¬
sible yearning to know and love anything human. I seemed
to be lifted, as by a miracle, above the mists of selfishness.
While I listened, confounded and transfixed with joy and
wonderment combined, I seemed distinctly to hear, floating
down upon the glistening solar ray, as it were, and inde¬
scribably blending with the aeolian strains of the mysterious
melody, these words : “ You—may—desire—to—travel”
THE SENSATIONS OF A MESMERIC SENSITIVE.
The following is Andrew Jackson Davis’s account of his
sensations on the first occasion on which he was mesmerised:
I felt the operator’s chilly hand pass and repass my
brow, the chamber of my thought. The living blood which
had flowed undisturbed through my youthful form during
its brief existence seemed well-nigh arrested. The ten
thousand avenues of sensation were illuminated as with the
livid flames of electric fire. Anon all was intensely dark
within. Dreadful and strange feelings passed over my body,
and through my brain. My emotions were painful. As the
reader knows I had horrid convictions of what the world
terms death. u Oh, mother !” thought I with terror, “ can
this be the period of my physical dissolution ?” My heart
continued to perform its office; but its beatings were less
frequent. I felt the different senses that connect the mind
with the outer world gradually closing. “ Alas J” methought
despairingly,11 are they closing for ever?” Thus my senses
yielded imperceptibly to the subduing power. I could no
longer hear the busy and active world without, nor feel the
touch of any object, living or dead. “ No longer,” thought
I, “ can I behold the system of nature. The fragrant fields
are gone, never more to be the scenes of happy contempla¬
tion.”
Thoughts essentially like these flashed rapidly through
my awe-struck mind: “What am I to do?” I queried
silently. “ To resist the sensations is to resist the effect
anticipated; and yet to remain in this condition much longer
will result, perhaps, in closing out for ever the beauties of
the material universe.”
But the counter and sceptical query now occurred,
“ whether all this was any more than the illusion of the
imagination ? Certainly I think I feel strange, but do I
actually know that my sensations are real ?” Thus questioned
I myself without making the least exertion to satisfy my
judgment. . I sat almost breathless for a few minutes longer
—encouraging a hope that the experiment might not suc-
15
|| ceed ; and yet paradoxical, as it may seem, I was actually
assisting to produce it. “ I am alive yet,” though! I, over-
j joyed, “ for I hear the operator inquire the hour—1 hear him
| respond seemingly to something said by another—but I do
| not hear any other person speak! Ain’t this exceeding
strange ?”
Another silence occurred longer than before, during which
I I endeavoqred to analyse my feelings. The enchantment
| had penetrated the innumerable recesses of my whole
I structure. Shortly I heard a voice—low, distant, strange,
| unpleasant—from the human world, calling me back to earth
I which I was mentally leaving. This sound troubled me.
I “ It is true, then,” thought I sadly, “ that my sense of hear-
| ing—along whose delicate halls has reverberated the pleasur-
j able music accompanying the sacred voice of pure affection
i and friendship—is closed! Closed to seal the reality of our
| eternal science? Can this be so?” continued I silently.
| “No, indeed ! The moment has arrived. I will submit no
i longer to this dangerous and dreadful experiment. Never
I shall my marvel-seeking and dreamy mind again lead me
! into such fearful perils! Yes ! I will speak and protest
I against this, dreadful operation.”
But oh, how frightful! My tongue seemed instantly to
| be enlarged and cling violently to the roof of my mouth.
| My cheeks seemed extremely swollen and my lips were
| joined as if by death—apparently to move no more. Another
resolution passed through my brain, and instantly I obeyed
| its suggestion. I made a desperate effort to change my
| position—particularly to disengage my hands—but (horrible
I beyond description!) my feet, my hands, and my whole
| body were entirely beyond the control of my volition. I could
no longer claim the proprietorship over my own person. All
I was lost—it seemed irretrievably lost. I felt convinced
that external life was for me no more. What could I do ?
True I could exercise my mental faculties to the highest de-
| gree—could reason with a startling clearness—but I could not
| hear, see, speak, feel or move! I had no means of ascer-
j taining my true physical or mental situation. I queried and
[ reasoned within myself thus : “ I have a body; a tangible
body. I reside in the form; but is it my natural or spiritual
body ? Is it adapted to the outer world, or to the post¬
mortem life ? Where am I ? Oh; I am so lonely ! Alas,
if this be Death / ” A natural consciousness, however, per¬
vaded and reassured my mind. Preconceived or innate ideas
were evolved from my inmost sensibilities. What surprised
me more than anything else was the gushing forth of
novel and brilliant thought—extending, apparently, over
the vast landscape of some unknown world of indescribable
beauty—comprehending more than it is possible for me even
now to relate. These conceptions, as I am now fully per¬
suaded, were an influx of many interior and immortal
truths.
Presently all was dark as before. This moment demanded
an absolute decision. Death seemed an inevitable conse¬
quence of my helpless situation. Every moment I ap¬
proached nearer and nearer to a mysteriously dark valley!
Perverseness and resistance filled me with strength, but
even this strength impelled me onward. Again and again I
retreated in mind; but every wave of thought wafted mo
nearer and nearer the fearful vale of iuconceivab'e dark¬
ness. Now was the time for a powerful exertion. Resist¬
ance was necessary,or else I should be lost in the impenetrable
gloom ! But I advanced nearer and nearer still. Xu thought
I leaped back suddenly, and, lo, I stood on the margin of
the ocean of eternal night. The warmth of my whole person
was exchanged lor death-like coldness. Horrid thoughts
of disorganisation continued to distress me. I was filled
with terror. The darkness grew more dark and appalling.
I was seized suddenly with an unearthly shudder, and,
terrible to relate, I found myself whirling in that blackened
gloom with an inconceivable velocity! I seemed to be
revolving in a spiral path, with a wide sweep at first, and
then smaller; so that every revolution on my descending
flight contracted the circle of my movement, and thus, dear
reader, down, down I sank, till immersed in that dreaded
ocean of darkness, the mountain waves of which grasped me
within their mighty folds, and I sank to the lowest depths
of forgetfulness 1;
This psychological event makes a bold and ineffaceable'
16
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 11, 1876.
mark on the first mountain of my pilgrimage, the mountain
of use. Looking back upon that mesmeric experiment, with
its precious results, I am filled with speechless gratitude.
Immutable, indeed, are those powers which manifest them¬
selves throughout nature. Nothing can possibly occur
opposed to the highest well-being of the innumerable worlds
entrusted to their exclusive and eternal control. After years
of study I am compelled so to believe. Explicit evidences
have been presented to my mind. All minds, I know, are
not equally susceptible to those impressions. Nevertheless,
the evidences cannot be doubted by those who practise the
privilege of observation. That my own conviction rests upon
a substantial basis the reader will be prepared to admit when
I relate the mysterious restoration of my lifeless body and
distracted mind to the enjoyment of eternal existence. The
story is very short:—
I awoke to physical consciousness, mentally revolving in a
circuitous form. The darkness continued (with my ascending
movement) to increase and expand, till I gained the margin
that bounded the ocean of the dreaded oblivion whose restless
waves conveyed me to the longed-for state of thought and
wakefulness. My senses, the windows of the soul, were
again opened; light broke in upon my dimmed vision;
sound vibrated through the labyrinths of my ear; sensation
flashed over my whole frame; and I moved, shouted, and
opened my eyes. But how joyfully surprised! I was in
precisely the same position as when I first seated myself for
the experiment. Many acquaintances were sitting near and
around me, with countenances beaming with pleasure and
astonishment. For a moment, however, I felt dissatisfied,
I could remember nothing except my mental sufferings; and
somehow, in my bewilderment, I did not feel quite certain
that I had not died. I could not realise that I had, in
reality, returned from the dark “ Valley of the Shadow of
Death.” But a few penetrating glances about the room,
and upon the familiar faces of those around, convinced me.
Whereupon I arose, as if from the gloom of the grave, and
with strength renewed, greeted the amazed and delighted
witnesses.
“ What’s the matter? ” I asked, with unfeigned anxiety.
il What brought these folks here ? What have I been
about ? ”
“ I sent for them,” replied the operator, “ to see you
perform.”
“ Perform I ” said I, perfectly oblivious of the significance
of his words.
“ Yes, perform ! ” returned he with a triumphant smile.
u You’re a queer youth, to be sure; but I know what your
power is called.”
“What is it?” I inquired.
“ Chauncey Hare Townsend calls itf clairvoyance,’” replied
the operator. “ I’ve read his book on Facts in Mesmerism,
wherein he describes cases of seeing, blindfolded, just as you
have done to-night in perfection.”
“ What’s been done?” lagain asked. “ Tell meall about it.”
“ Why, after a little you read from your forehead the large
letters on a newspaper, and told the time by our watches;
besides, you described where some of us are diseased, all
to our perfect satisfaction.”
Well do I remember my reflections that night while
walking to Mr. Armstrong’s suburban home. Translated
into my present use of words, these were my queries and
meditations :—“ What is this power ? This magic spell ?
This wizardly operation ? What was that which so hemmed
my flesh ? Which shut out the world ? Which caused me
to die a dreaded death ? Which brought me back to life
again ? How strange that so much time should have un¬
consciously jglapsed. An unremembered period—a blank in
my mental history—yielding a harvest so mysterious ! Can
this be prophetic power ? Is it like the witchcraft of the
ancients ? Can it be a dream; an imaginary display ? Is
it mental hallucination ? Am I a victim of Satanic in¬
cantation ? Nay, there is something deeper than thought
which assures me that this is an important and beautiful
truih. And I remember, too, the sweet, familiar voice,
soltly breathing through the air liBe—calm! You—shall—
sse.”
That night, as the reader might imagine, I could not
sleep. Next morning early I related all that had happened.
| On the face of the utilitarian there was a scrutinising look
| of incredulity. He did not dispute it, however, neither did
| he deny me the solicited time (though he had often told me
| that 1 time is money’) for further mesmeric experimentation.
| During business hours, nevertheless, I was punctually in my
| place—discharging the several duties consequent on my call-
| ing. But there was a mystery hanging over my path, a
| spell on my soul, a higher calling from the pinnacle of some
! unknown mountain, which impelled me every evening into
! Mr. Levingston’s parlour in order to test and demonstrate
| what the new power could accomplish. ’Twas a mental
| struggle, dear reader, a laborious and continuous ascent, a
JI weird and wild experiment for both my body and soul. It
[ | was a region of life unexplored—an ocean without a shore.
>| Yea, I was literally “going it blind;” not flippantly and
[ i carelessly, but with apprehensions inexpressible.
By thus subjecting myself periodically to the mesmeric
i! process I excited the curiosity of the surface population;
| and the marvel-loving would flock around my chair and con-
| tend for chances to get individual tests. Like the poet of
; “the lonely shore,” it seemed that when this mysterious
sleep first passed from my quivering frame, “ I awoke and
| found myself famous.” My popularity, however, was far
I from being co-extensive with my notoriety. The latter with-
! out the former as a shield, made me a target at which cer¬
tain college boys projected snowballs and hoots, while
I sundry older heads—professional men and the fashionable—
discharged the cold-hearted hot shot of ignorant condemna-
I tion. In a word, I was universally the object of private
| scandal and public ridicule.
HEINRICH HEINE.
i The Times, in a recent review of The Life, Work, and Opinions of
| Heinrich Heine, by William Stigand (Longmans), says—
In the European literature,’ says an accomplished critic, * of that
quarter of a century which follows the death of Goethe, Heine is
incomparably the most important figure.’ If Mr. Matthew Arnold’s
! judgment is, with any qualifications, correct, it is scarcely to the credit
i of English literature that Heine’s works should be so little known, and
! that his influence in England should be so slight. It is difficult, no
| doubt, for a poet speedily to exert an influence beyond the range of
| the language in which he wrote; but Heine, though a consummate
j poet, was a great deal besides. A humorist of the first rank, a master
i of the most delicate irony, a profound critic, an unrivalled wit, Heine
I attempted almost every form of literature, and failed in nothing that
i he attempted.”
The reviewer afterwards quotes the following passages;—
AN APPARITION’S OPINION OF GHOSTS.
During the night I passed at Goslar a very extraordinary thing
happened to me. Even now I cannot think of it without horror. I
am by nature no coward, but I have a terrible fear of ghosts. What
is fear ? Does it come from the understanding or from the tempera¬
ment 1 This was a question which I frequently discussed with Dr.
Saul Ascher when we accidentally met at the Caffi Royal, in Berlin,
where I used to dine. He always maintained that we fear a thing
because we recognise it on rational grounds as fearful. Only the
reason, he said, was an active power, not the temperament. While
I ate and drank to my heart’s content, the Doctor demonstrated to me
the advantages of reason. Towards the end of his demonstration he
used to look at his watch, and always ended with—“ Reason is the
highest principle.” Reason I Whenever I hear the word I seem to
see before me Dr. Saul Ascher with his abstract legs, with his long
coat of transcendental grey, and with his stern, freezing face, which
would have done for a table of diagrams in a book of geometry. The
man was an incarnate straight line. In his determinate matter-of-
factness the poor man had philosophised everything noble out of life—
all sunshine, all beliefs, every flower, and there remained nothing for
him but the cold, matter-of-fact grave. He had a special spite against
the Apollo Belvedere and Christianity, and he had even publisoed a
pamphlet against the latter to show how unreasonable and untenable
it was To return, however, to Goslar. “ The highest principle
is reason,” said I soothingly to myself, as I went to bed But it
was no use; as the clock ceased striking twelve, and the stillness of
death reigned in the house, I suddenly seemed to hear in the passage
outside my room a shuffling and sliding as of the tottering steps of an
old man. Then the door opened, and the deceased Dr. Saul Ascher
walked slowly in. A cold fever thrilled me through bone and marrow.
I trembled like an aspen leaf, and scarcely dared look at the phantom.
He was just the same as ever, the same long coat of transcendental
grey, the same abstract legs, and the same mathematical face, only the
latter was a shade yellower than formerly, and the mouth, which
formerly made two angles of 22£ degrees, was pinched up, and the
circles of the eyes had a larger radius. Tottering, and supporting
himself on his Spanish cane, as he used to do, he came up to me and
said iu a friendly way, with his usual drawl, (< Don't be afraid, nor
believe that I am a ghost. It is a trick of fancy if you believe that
you see only my ghost. What is a ghost 1 Give me a definition of it
Auo. 11, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Be so good as. to deduce for me the conditions of the possibility of a
ghost. In what relation would such a phenomenon stand to the |
reason ? The reason, I say the reason.” Here the ghost proceeded to I
an analysis of reason, cited Kant’s Critique of the Pure Reason, 2nd j
Part, 1st Division, 2nd Book, 3rd Section, the distinction between
Phenomena and Noumena. Then he constructed the hypothetical
belief in ghosts, piled one syllogism on another, and concluded with
the logical proof that there is absolutely no such thing as a ghost.
Meanwhile the cold sweat coursed down my back, and my teeth chat- !
tered like castanets. From sheer agony of soul I nodded uncondi- j
tional assent to every sentence in which the phantom doctor proved
the absurdity of fearing ghosts; and he pursued his demonstration
with such ardour that at last, in a moment of abstraction, instead of i
his gold watch, he drew from his fob a handful of worms, and, observ¬
ing his mistake, he hastily replaced them with a grotesque look of dis¬
quiet. u The reason is the highest,” Here the clock struck one, and
the ghost vanished.
Heine in the Reisehilder says—
SPIRITUAL SLAVERY.
Entire races have often lived for ages, like these islanders of the j
North, in a complete community of thought and feeling. The Itomish j j
Church in the Middle Ages may, perhaps, have wished to bring about i) j
such a condition by welding Europe into a single corporate society, J,'|
and it therefore took under its guardianship every relation of life, all j i
powers and appearances—in short, the whole moral and physical man. |
It cannot be denied that much peaceful happiness was secured thereby, j|l
that life had a warmer, inward glow, and that the arts, like flowers {j j
reared in quietude, unfolded that splendour at which we are still jjj
amazed and which we cannot imitate with all our restless knowledge, i j j
But the spirit has its eternal rights; it will not be trammelled with j
dogmas, nor lulled to sleep with the tinkle of bells. ... In any case | j
that rule of the Church was a yoke of slavery of the worst kind. |{|
Who is our surety for the good purpose which I have just attributed Hi
to it ? Who can prove that an equivocal purpose was not at times j)
mingled therewith? Rome lusted ever for empire, and when her !]i
legions fell she sent her dogmas into the Provinces. Like a giant HI
spider, Rome sat in the centre of the Latin world and spun over it her jj j
endless web. Generations of men lived a peaceful life under its shelter, j j j
for they held that to be the not too distant arch of heaven which was i j j
but a web of Roman weaving. Only the spirits of higher aspiration, iji
who saw through its meshes, felt themselves oppressed and wretched, jj
and when they strove to break through it the crafty spider easily Hi
caught them and drained the boldest blood of their hearts. And was jl
not the dream of happiness of the purblind multitude bought too ijj
dearly at the price of all this noble blood? The days of spiritual j|{
slavery are gone by, thanks be to Godl Old and weak among the |ji
broken pillars of her Coliseum sits the aged spider of the Cross, still ||j
spinning on at the same old web ; but it is weak and brittle now, and jj
only butterflies and bats are taken in it, and no longer the eagle royal j) j
of the North.
Of the Americans Heine says—“ These Americans set great store by |1
their Christianity, and are the most zealous of church-goers. Worldly j j
advancement is their only religion, and gold is their god—their only, jj
their almighty god.” II j
Heine concludes his account of German philosophy with the follow- j j j
ing passage written in 1834, which Mr. Stigand says reads almost like Ijj
a chapter of the Apocalypse when illumined by the light of 1870 :—
A PROPHECY. ijj
The thought goes before the word like the flash before the thunder. j
German thunder is in truth very German ; it is not very nimble, and Jj
has a long, deliberate roll; but it will roll on, and when you hear the ji
crash—such a crash as has never before been heard in the world’s his- |j
tory—then know that the German thunder has struck home. At this |}j
uproar will the eagles fall dead from the sky, and the lions in the j j I
farthest wastes of Africa will turn tail and slink away to their royal j
dens. Then will a drama be played in Gernoany to which the French j)i
Revolution will seem to have been only a harmless idyll. .... And J
the hour will come. As on the steps of an amphitheatre will the ijj
nations group themselves round Germany to behold the mighty con- )
flict. I counsel you, then, ye French, to keep yourselves very still, jj
and for your lives beware of applauding us. That we might easily Ijj
misunderstand, and in our uncourtly fashion we might tell you rather Jj
bluntly to keep quiet Be on your guard. I am kindly disposed jj
towards you myself, and therefore I tell you the bitter truth. You HI
have more to fear from the recovered freedom of Germany than from | j j
the whole Holy Alliance, with all the Croats and Cossacks to boot, j j j
For, firstly, you are not beloved in Germany, which is very incompre- ij
hensible, for you are so worthy of love, ana during your sojourn in j
Germany you gave yourselves so much pains to please the better and Hj
fairer half of the German people. And even were you beloved by Ijj
this half, yet it is just the half that carries no arms, and whose friend- M
ship can, therefore, do you little good. "What is really the charge jj I
against you I have never been able to imagine. Once in the Bierkeller j Ji
at Gottingen a young Old-German declared that revenge must be taken j i
on the French for the death of Konradin, of Staufen, whom you jij
beheaded at Naples. That, no doubt, you have forgotten. We, how- j j
ever, forget nothing. You see, whenever we feel a desire to come to 11
blows with you, there will never be a lack of excellent reasons. In Jji
any case, then, I counsel you to be on your guard. Let what will j j
happen in Germany; let the Crown Prince of Prussia or Doctor Wirth r j
get the upper hand, keep yourselves ever prepared. Remain quietly jj i
at your post, your arms in your hands. I am kindly disposed towards I
you, and I was sheer affrighted when I lately heard tnat your Ministers r j
had the intention of reducing the armaments of France. .... Since 1
17
you, in spite of your present taste for Romanticism, are born Clas¬
sicists, you know what Olympus is. Among the naked gods and
goddesses that there make merry over nectar and ambrosia, you see
one goddess who, albeit surrounded by such mirth and merriment, yet
always wears a corslet, and keeps her helmet on her head, and holds
her spear in her hand. It is the goddess of wisdom.”
As Mr. Matthew Arnold tells us—In 1847 Heine’s health, which till
then had always been perfectly good, gave way. He had a kind of
paralytic stroke. His malady proved to be a softening of the spinal
marrow; it was incurable ; it made rapid progress. In May, 1848,
not a year after his first attack, he went out of doors for the last time,
but his disease took more than eight years to kill him. For nearly
eight years he lay helpless on a couch, with the use of his limbs gone,
wasted almost to the proportions of a child, so that a woman could
carry him about; the sight of one eye lost, that of the other greatly
dimmed, and requiring, that it might be exercised, to have the palsied
eyelid lifted and held up by the finger; all this, and suffering, besides
this, at short intervals, paroxysms of nervous agony.” Lord Houghton,
in his Monographs, has given a touching memoir of Heine’s last days,
from the concluding words of which few readers will withhold their
sympathy:—“The personal tragedy of his last years adds a solemn
chapter to the chronicle of the disasters of genius, and the recollection
of the afflictions of the ‘living shade of the Champs Elys6es’ will
mitigate the judgment of censorious criticism, and tinge with melan¬
choly associations the brightest and liveliest of his works.”
The following are the last words written by Heine for publication
THE LEPER.
In the year 1480, says the Limburg Chronicle, everybody was
piping and singing lays more lovely and delightful than any which had
ever yet been known in German lands; and all people, young and “old
—the women especially—went quite mad about them, so that their
melody was heard from morning to night. Only, the Chronicle adds,
the author of these songs was a young clerk afflicted with leprosy, who
lived alone in a desolate place hidden from all the world. You doubt¬
less know, dear reader, what a fearful malady this leprosy was in the
Middle Ages, and how the poor wretches who fell under this incurable
sickness were banished from all society and allowed to come near no
human being. Like living corpses they wandered' forth, closely
wrapped from head to foot, their hood drawn over their face, and
carrying in their hand a rattle called ‘the Lazarus rattle,’ with which
they gave notice of their approach that every one might get betimes
out or their way. This poor clerk, then, whose fame as a poet and
singer the Limburg Chronicle extols, was just such a leper, and he sate
desolate in the dreary waste of his misery, while all Germany, joyous
and tuneful, sang and piped his lays Ofttimea in my sombre
visions of the night I think I see before me the poor clerk of the
Limburg Chronicle, my brother in Apollo, and his sad suffering eyes
stare strangely at me from under his hood; but at the same moment
he seems to vanish, and dying away in the distance like the echo of a
dream, I hear the jarring creak of the Lazarus rattle.
THE LAST DAYS OF MISS MARTINEAU.
BY HENRY O. ATKINSON, F.G.8.
There was one impression Miss Martinean had in her
mesmeric states in which she was certainly right; her ex¬
pression was that she should become “ the Apostle of Pain,”
and she often referred to it. I understood her to mean that
she would be a great sufferer, and this was afterwards ex¬
hibited in her patience and long-suffering through all those
years, expecting that she might die any day, as her physician
thought. All through that long illness she wished that the
end might come, yet she was brave and patient to the last.
In the last letter she was able to write to me—a month before
her death—was a full and calm statement of her sentiments
and feelings in respect to death, and supposing that my
views must be very similar.
Carlyle used to speak of her as tl the bravest thing ex¬
tant.” The only fear she seemed to have was of being
wrong, or doing wrong; and though she rightly estimated
her powers, I think she did care for her writings and literary
position, and would not say, with Sir Walter Scott, “ You
know I don’t care a curse for what I write, or what comes of
it.” What he did care for was for Abbotsford, and to become
the munificent country gentleman of the Clan Scott (Buc^-
clench), and but for this ambition and desire Lockhart does
not think we should have had the novels. But Miss
Martineau loved work for its own sake as well as for the
good of mankind. She wrote a book on The Maid of All
Work, and she was a maid of all work herself in philosophy,
politics, and general literature, but always with the aim of
doing good, that if possible she might leave the world better
than she found it.
18
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 11, 1876.
THE TESTIMONIAL TO ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS.
The efforts of Mr. J. N. T. Martheze, of 20, Palmeira-
square, Brighton, have resulted in the formation of a com¬
mittee in England, to act in conjunction with that in
America, in raising subscriptions towards the testimonial
to Andrew Jackson Davis. Those friends who wish to sub¬
scribe, and it is to be hoped that there will be many, are
requested to make remittances to Mr. Martheze with as
little delay as possible. The following is the committee, as
at present constituted :—
Mr. Chas. Blackburn,
Mr. B. Coleman
Dr. G. Sexton.
Mr. A. Calder.
Mr. W. Tebb.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Mr. H. D. Jenoken.
Mr. H. Collen.
Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Mr. A. Glendinning.
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze,
A SITTING WITH DR. SLADE.
Bt EDWARD W. COX, SERJEANT-AT-LAW, PRESIDENT OP THE 'PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY OP GREAT BRITAIN.
Having undertaken to examine without prejudice or pre¬
possession, and to report faithfully, without favour, in a
purely judicial spirit, any alleged psychological phenomena
that might. be submitted to me as President of the Psycho¬
logical Society of Great Britain, I narrate without com¬
ment what I witnessed at a sitting with Dr. Slade this
afternoon.
I sat alone with him, at three o’clock, in a room at 8, Upper
Bedford-place, Russell-square, into which the sun shone
brightly, at a table about five feet by four, having four legs,
no ledge below, and no cloth upon it. Dr. Slade sat at one
side of this table, sideways, so that his legs and feet were
not under the table, but his whole body fully in my view as
he faced me. I sat at the side, the corner of the table
being between us. As I sat I could see half-way below the
table, and by moving my head slightly, I could see the whole
space below, which was wholly exposed in full daylight. An
ordinary drawing-room chair was about six inches from the
table on the opposite side, six feet from Dr. Slade. A heavy
arm-chair was in the corner of the room, about the same
distance from him and from the table. A slate of the
ordinary school size and a piece of slate pencil were upon the
table.
Instantly upon taking our seats very loud rapping came
upon the floor. This was followed by a succession of furious
blows upon the table, jarring my hands as they were laying
upon it. These blows were repeated at any part of the table
desired, by merely touching that spot with the finger, while
the blows, as forcible as if given with a sledge hammer,
were_being made. Dr. Slade’s hands were on the table upon
my hands, and his whole body to his feet was fully before my
eyes. I am certain that not a muscle moved. Then he
took the slate after I had carefully inspected it, to be assured
that no writing was upon it, and placing there a piece of
slate pencil, the size of a small grain of wheat, he pressed
the slate tightly below but against the slab of the table.
Presently 1 heard the sound as of writing on a slate. The
slate wa& removed, and on it a zigzag line was drawn from
end to end.
At this moment the chair that I had described as standing
by the table was lifted up to a level with the table, held
iu that, position for several seconds, and then dropped to the
floor, While the chair was so suspended in the air, I care-
iully noted Dr. Slade. It was far beyond his reach. But
his hands were under my hands, and his feet were fully in
view near my own on the side of the table opposite to that
on which I he chair had risen.
While I was taking note of his position at this moment,
a hand rudely grasped my knee on the opposite side to where
Dr. Slade was seated and his hands were still in mine on the
table.
Blows of a more gentle kind upon the table, attended
With a remarkable quivering of it, announced, as he said,
that his wile was present, and desired the slate. After the
slate had been carefully cleaned, it was laid upon the top of
.the table, with a like piece of pencil under it. Upon the slate
he placed his right hand, and I placed my left hand, and
with my other hand I held his left hand as it lay upon the
table. As my hand lay upon the slate, I could feel, and I
did also distinctly hear, something writing upon it. The
communication was evidently a long one; but before I re¬
port the result, I desire to note here a remarkable pheno¬
menon, to my mind the most suggestive that attended this
experiment.
It is necessary clearly to understand the position of the
parties, therefore I repeat it.
Dr. Slade and myself sat face to face. One hand of each
of us was laid upon the slate. The side of the slate that
was being written upon was pressed by us against the table.
Our second hands were linked together, and lay upon the
table. While this position was preserved, the writing pro¬
ceeded without pause. When Dr. Slade removed his hand
from mine it ceased instantly, and as instantly was renewed
when his hand and mine met. This experiment was re¬
peated several times, and never failed.
Here, then, was a chain or circle formed by my arms and
body, and Dr. Slade’s arms and body, the slate being between
us, my hand at one end of it, his hand at the other end, and
between our hands, and upon the slate that connected them,
the writing was. When the chain was broken forthwith the
writing ceased. When the chain was reformed the writing
was at once resumed. The effect was instantaneous. In this
curious fact we must seek the clue to this psychological
mystery.
Some rapid rappings, indicating that the writing was
finished, the slate was lifted, and in a clear and perfectly
distinct writing the following was read. It filled the whole
side of the slate :—
Dear Serj.,—You are now investigating a subject that is worthy
of all the time you or any other man of mind can devote to its investi¬
gation. When man can believe in this truth, it will in most cases make
him a better man. This is our object in coming to earth, to make man
and woman better, wiser, and purer.—I am truly,
A. W. Slade.
While I was reading this a hand again grasped my knee
furthest from Dr. Slade, whose hands were at that moment
holding the slate that I might copy the writing. As I wrote,
a hand, which I saw distinctly, came from under the table,
seized my waistcoat and pulled it violently.
Seeing this I took the pencil with which I was copying the
words and laid it at the edge of the table furthest from Dr.
Slade, and far beyond his reach, the end of the pencil project¬
ing about two inches over the ledge. I asked if the hand
would take the pencil. Forthwith a hand came from under the
table, seized the pencil, and threw it upon the floor. I again
asked that it would pick up the pencil and bring it to me.
In a minute it was brought and put upon the table by my
side. I saw the hand that brought it as distinctly as I could
see my own. It was a small hand, seemingly that of a
woman.
Again the slate was cleaned and laid upon the table as
before, my hand upon it. In a few seconds the following
sentence was written. Considerable power was used in this
writing, and I could distinctly feel the pressure of the pencil
upon the slate, and its motion as every word was written:—
I am Dr. John Forbes. I was the Queen’s physician. God bless
you. J. Forbes.
While I was reading this, the hand again came from
under the table and seized the sleeve of my coat and tried
to pull my arm down, but I resisted and it disappeared.
Then it came up again, as if from my legs, and caught the
eye-glass that was hanging from my neck, and opened it.
During all these phenomena Dr. Slade’s hands were before
me on the table and his feet full in my view upon the floor.
The hand on each occasion came from the side of the table
opposite to where Dr. Slade was sitting. He was seated on
my left, and the hand came and seized me on my right leg, in
a position impossible to him. The hand I saw was not half
the size of Dr. Slade’s hand. It touched my hand three
times, and I could feel that it was warm, soft, and moist,
and as solid and fleshly as my own.
Again the slate was cleaned and held under the table
tight against the wood, one half of it projecting beyond the
edge, so that I might be assured that it was tightly pressed
against the wood ; but the slate was seized, and with great
force drawn away and rapidly raised above me and placed
upon my head. In this position the sound of writing upon
it was distinctly heard by me. On removing it, I found
written upon it the following words :—
Man must not doubt any more, when we can come in this way.
J. F., M.D.
Then the large arm-chair rushed forward from the corner
of the room in which it had been placed, to the table.
Again the slate was placed under the table, and project¬
ing from it. A hand twice seized and shook my leg, both
of the hands of Dr. Slade being at the moment before me,
and his whole person visible.
Thus ended this experiment. All that I have reported
was done, that is certain. How it was done, and by what
agency, is a problem for psychology to solve. For my own
part I can say only that I was in the full possession of my
senses; that I was wide awake; that it was in broad day¬
light ; that Dr. Slade was under my observation the whole
time, and could not have moved hand or foot without being
detected by me.
That it was not a self-delusion is shown by this, that any
person who chooses to go may see almost the same pheno¬
mena. I offer no opinion upon their causes, for I have
formed none. If they be genuine, it is impossible to exag¬
gerate their interest and importance. If they be an impos¬
ture, it is equally important that the trick should be exposed
in the only way in which trickery can be explained, by doing
the same thing, and showing how it is done.
August 8th, 1876.
A SEANCE WITH DR. SLADE.
BT C. CARTER BLAKE, DOCT. SCI.
On Monday, the 8th instant, I had the pleasure of visiting
Dr. Slade. The manifestations were of the same kind as
those described by many of your correspondents. I wus
struck with the fact that the motive power which pulled at
my coat, took a slate from my hand, and carried it under
the table, proceeded from my right hand, while Dr. Slade
was on my left. The message given on the slate was of the
usual character from Allie. Subsequently, the initials of a
deceased person known to myself were written on the slate
when the side was turned downwards, and quite invisible to
Dr. Slade. Afterwards some writing was obtained on the
slate from the same assumed source, the meaning of which
was intelligible to myself, and not to Dr. Slade. Hands
were seen, and my coat forcibly pulled by some other
force than his own. The table was raised up when both his
hands, and both mine, were on it, and my feet on his. No
motion of his feet could have done this. He then leaving the
table, it forcibly threw itself on my lap, and subsequently, in
a reversed position on my head. The accordion was played
when held by one of Dr. Slade’s hands.
The hands shown near me cast a distinct shadow, pro¬
duced by the sunlight on the table, and on my white
waistcoat.
The effect on my mind was the certainty of Dr. Slade’s
perfect good faith in the matter, and the conviction that the
force which produced these singular conditions was intelli¬
gent, and acted from a spot or spots separate from the
medium.
A SPIRIT MESSAGE PURPORTING TO COME FROM
CHARLES BRAVO.
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
This morning I called upon Dr. Slade to make an appoint¬
ment with him for a seance with Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace,
when he informed me that a spirit who gave the name of
Charles Bravo had been with him occasionally, seeking an
opportunity to communicate. Dr. Slade further asked me
if I would attend again at four o’clock to sit for the purpose
of taking down anything the said spirit might have to say
to ns. At four o’clock I was there, just after Dr. Carter
Blake, lecturer on Anatomy at Westminster Hospital, had
had a remarkable stance, which he will no doubt publish.
After I entered, Dr. Slade placed a crumb of pencil, about
the size of a grain of wheat, upon a slate which was clean
upon both sides. He placed the slate near me, flat against
the under side of the leaf of the table, and asked me to
hold it close against the table with one hand at my corner,
whilst he held it flat against the leaf with his hand at his
corner. Our other hands were joined on the top of the
centre of the table. Sunlight was streaming down upon
our two hands holding the slate, and one edge of the slate
was in my sight all the time. While we were thus holding
it, we could hear and feel that the piece of pencil was
writing a long message on it; every stroke could be heard,
and the time of writing was about four minutes. While
this was going on I kept up a conversation with Dr. Slade.
Further, it was argumentative conversation, demanding his
close attention, so that clear evidence was given that while
the mind of the medium was engaged in talking to me,
some other intelligence was writing upon a different subject
upon the slate. There is no mistake upon this point. I
observed the fact as already stated continuously for about
four minutes.
After the writing ceased the following message was found
to be upon the slate:—
Dear Sir,—I am anxious to see my dear and loving wife, and tell
her how sorry I am, and how unhappy I am for making her the trouble
I have. She was not the one that gave me the poison, or anyone in the
house. I diet it myself, and will tell her all about it if she can come here,
so I can. I took the poison because I was out of temper, and had a
hatred against that bad man, Dr. G. My dear wife did not know
anything about it, or her maid. Dr. G. shall never prosper, and
shall be made to suffer as I have suffered. Do, for God’s sake, send for
my dear wife, so I can tell her all. Poor soul, how she has suffered,
and all for me. When I tell her how I got the poison, she may tell the
same if she wishes, but I must tell her first. Please act on my request,
and relieve a troubled spirit.—I am, truly, Chas. Bravo.
I asked whether this was in Mr. Bravo’s handwriting and
|| the reply was “partly.” Next I asked whether some fact
\\ could be stated by Mr. Bravo known to Mrs. Bravo and to
|! nobody else, as evidence whether the message actually came
jf from her husband, but no information of the kind was given.
<| Next a message was given in the same way, and signed
| “Allie,” Dr. Slade’s departed wife. It was written with
i twice the velocity of the one signed “ Chas. Bravo.”
! The experiments and researches of Mr. Varley, Mr.
| Crookes, and other observers, have shown that many mani-
j festations at spirit circles are produced by beings who
| sometimes materialise their hands, faces, or their whole
I bodies, and that these are frequently duplicates of those of the
I medium. The theory is that communicating spirit being
I itself divorced from material conditions, is obliged to take
! on some of the conditions and appearances which it finds
I about the medium. Dr. Slade’s manifestations are allied to
I this class, for most of the messages come in handwriting
| strongly resembling his own, and the literary composition
I will probably be found to bear some resemblance to his own
if likewise. Supposing this to be really the spirit of Charles
| Bravo who communicated, I imagine that he did it
| under difficulties, and had to take on some of the material
| conditions of the medium—hence the writing was executed
! slowly. When the spirit accustomed to communicate,
! afterwards controlled, the writing was done with double the
11 velocity, and although there were similarities in the two
| specimens of handwriting, they appeared at first sight
I to be altogether different, and the letters throughout were
| inclined at a different angle.
Dr. Slade put aside the slate with the Bravo message on
I it, saying that he did not intend to wash it off.
The remark is often made, “ Why do not spirits tell us
| something which would be useful in eliciting truth in courts
| of justice? ” But what is the use of their trying to do so?
| In the present case there is no evidence whether the message
| is truthful or untruthful. Again, the difficulties spirits have
! to overcome in attempting to communicate are not yet fully
j understood, chiefly because the press and the scientific world,
If instead of welcoming a new truth, and searching out its uses
j to the uttermost, do not investigate themselves, and oppose
jj and taboo investigation by others. If all worked intelli-
I gently and harmoniously to probe the matter to the roots,
| these difficulties would be more rapidly overcome.
ji 38, Great Ruasell-st., August 7tk, 1876.
( j Letters have just been received from Mrs. E. Corner (Florence
(j Cook) from Shanghai. Her voyage from England was of unusual
ji length, the vessel having met with calms and contrary winds, and
<1 touched at one time on the edge of a cyclone, in the Indian seas. Mrs.
Corner was in good health and spirits.
Aug. 11, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
19
20 THE SPIRITUALIS'D. Aua* 11» 187&
©omsponunue.
Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.]
MANIFESTATIONS IN THE WEST OF ENGLAND THROUGH MR. EGLINTON’S
MEDIUM SHIP.
Sir,—I have the pleasure to inform you that Mr. Willie Eglinton has
just concluded a three week’s visit to the three towns of Plymouth,
Devonport, and Stonehouse. During that time, Mr. Eglinton has given
eighteen seances in eight different houses. The manifestations have
been of an extraordinary and varied character, and have deeply im¬
pressed all who have beheld them. Although the inhabitants of the
three towns are unacquainted with, and disbelievers in, Spiritualism, yet
every seance has been well attended, and generally by the best classes,
amongst whom many converts have been made. The friends of the
cause are very sorry that Mr. Eglinton’s engagements compel him to
leave now that a thorough interest has been awakened, and they look
forward to his promised return in the winter with much pleasure.
A detailed account of Mr. Eglinton’s seances would probably not much
interest your readers, who are accustomed to such things, but they
are by far the best that have ever been seen in Plymouth. Mr. Eg¬
linton’s controlling spirits seem almost independent of the ordinary
conditions, for in circles comprised entirely of sceptics, the manifes-
tions have been remarkably fine. Joey has become a great favourite,
especially with the ladies, and his fun is fast and furious. One of
his ordinary tricks is to empty the contents of all the drawers on to
the table, and he generally manages to leave the room looking like a
bear garden. A few nights ago he brought a decanter out of a cup¬
board, and poured some of the contents down my throat. Joey is
also a very good musician, and can play anything on the mouth
harmonicon, from nursery rhymes to a selection of.national airs.
In short, this spirit works very hard, and in a most amusing manner*
on behalf of the cause. All the time he is at work he carries on a
witty conversation with the sitters, and clearly proves that he has lost
none of his earthly gift of, amusing the public. Ernest and Daisy
seldom fail to put in a voice at Mr. Eglinton’s seances; the former
always speaks a few earnest words in favour of Spiritualism, whilst
Daisy makes herself very useful in directing the sitters. At two seances
Mr. Eglinton has been taken up to the ceiling, and at two others he has
had materializations. On one of the latter occasions three spirits ma¬
terialized. We have a few experienced Spiritualists in Plymouth, and,
in their opinion, Mr. Eglinton’s manifestations are amongst the most
remarkable they have ever seen, heard, or read of. Mr. Eglinton’s
seances have been noticed by the local press, and there is no doubt he
might have done very well here for some time to come. W.
Plymouth, August 3rd, 1876.
THE “COURT JOURNAL” ON SPIRITUALISM AND SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—In page 868 of the Court Journal of July 22nd, 1876,1 find the
following, part of a rather long panegyric on Fashion and Passion, the
Duke de Medina Pomar’s last novel:—“ The writer possesses great
powers of observation, and his descriptive passages give to the mind
something of the same effect as the sight of a carefully drawn picture.
The story is highly interesting, the characters are extremely well drawn,
and the style is at once so lively, true to nature, and genial, that it
cannot fail to be read with delight by all who possess literary taste, and
recognise the conscientiousness with which the author strives to copy
nature.”
Again, in the same page, with respect to the trial of the Princess
Isabeau de Beauvan, in Paris, the Court Journal says :—“ The Princess
Isabeau defended herself in excellent style and language. It would
have been simply impossible to have doubted her powers of mind after
such a speech as she made.”
With respect to the Prize Essays by Miss Anna Blackwell and Mrs.
Gr. F. Green, this paper acknowledges again in the same page, that
“In point of style the essays are well written.” But after the above
tributes to the superior intellect of believers in Spiritualism, a tirade,
which I found also in the same page, on the futility of Spiritualism,
comes with singular inaptitude and inconsequence. Scrutator.
KARDEC’S BOOK OF MEDIUMS.
Sir,—Some time since you were so good as to publish a letter ! sent
you, saying that there was an error in the type of a communication I had
had the pleasure of forwarding to Miss Blackwell, and which I found
was published in her translation of Kardec’s Livre des Mediums. Miss
Blackwell has just found and sent me my letter to her, which shows that
the error was my own. It refers to a visit to Dr. Lynn, and instead of
the words—“ Go and sit on the sofa, close to my brother on the plat¬
form,” they should have been—“ Go and sit on the sofa, close to my
brother, tiear the platform,” I am quite in accord with Miss Black-
well in thinking that I should acknowledge my own error, as carelessness
in a letter is of less importance than in a published translation.
The Clergyman in Question.
SUGGESTED TESTS.
Sir,—Dr. Wyld’s tests, though very ingenious, are hardly of greater
value than some of the experiments which were performed by the
philosophers in Laputa.
The conditions under which an accomplice “ softly in his stocking’s
soles” performs all the requisite movements of exhibiting arms at a dis¬
tance from himself; motion of a book at a distance from his feet, and
agitation of a bell some inches above his head, are very complicated. I
fail to see the reason why any fraudulent accomplice should separate the
foot from the sole of the stocking, and how the sole is kept in adherence
jij to the foot, and in fact what the stocking sole has to do with the
j|i matter.
I (i The conditions under which a fraudulent medium, with head tied to the
]) j back of a chair, elongates his or her neck so as to draw an artificial hand
j f I from under the chair on which he sits are also singular. On the theory
| jj | that fraudulent mediums have more than seven cervical vertebrae, or
| > j have those vertebrae abnormally elongated, Dr. Wyld’s hypothesis may
; 11 be correct, but can only be solved by the autopsy of the medium.
j v i The conditions under which a box shall “ be properly taped, and the
j ! tapes knotted and sealed at each crossing,” are remarkable, as it is not
m even suggested that the tapes be sealed together. Such a box could be
j(j opened by anyone by the simple process of untying the knots, the idea
| [ | of which appears not to have occurred to the tester.
| | .0, Carter Blake. ■
i [ | “ THE STOLEN PICTURE.”
j j Sir,—In May last I suggested in a letter which you were good
! | enough to publish, that it would rapidly advance the cause of Spirit-
111 ualism in public estimation if concerted action were adopted by powerful
j(i circles towards the elucidation of any public mystery which occurred,
! [ | and which might be considered worthy of the attempt to solve. It has
| i been rejoined that this is more properly the work of the clairvoyant
| (I than the Spiritualist; but is not the clairvoyant a Spiritualist ? and I
II i need hardly say that what may be done through this or any cognate
m’ means, so essentially associated with the phenomena we desire to spread
|j a.knowledge of, would powerfully help to the end we have in view. I
!! | suggest, then, that circles should attempt the solution of the question—
i(! where is the stolen picture ? or to obtain any intelligence respecting it.
I | This is a query which is perfectly possible of answer we know, but it
m would not be wise, even in the supposition of perfect agreement in the
| (:| answers, to publish offhand what was got. Let a committee of the
!(;; British National Association, or other responsible parties, receive the
m replies, compare them, and deliberately resolve what to do in the in-
| (| terests of all concerned, and not the least—the truth, all which I respect-
| j fully submit, G. G.
I j j A SEANGE IN PARIS. s
||j Sir,—Last Saturday, at three o’clock, the remarkable healing medium
| | mentioned in The Spiritudlisi by Mr. Joy, was in my rooms, together
i} | with a lady possessed by an evil spirit. Mr. Henricy was seated with
1(1 his back to the two open but curtained windows; the lady was facing
j f | him; I was writing at a small table. Twice I heard the cry in the
| (| room of a small bird, but, upon rising to see what it was, I found
| | nothing. I resumed my work, when, in a few minutes, Mr. Henricy
j exclaims, “ There is a bird on the floor.” I again jumped up, and took
m it in my hand. I perceived it to be a sparrow; but not wishing to
S(| squeeze it too much, it managed to escape. I at once closed the
j (I windows, in order to keep it in the rooms, but we saw it no more. Mr.
|(| Henricy had seen it fall from the top of a library shelf. I had had it
|(| in my hand, so there was no delusion about it. Upon questioning my
j (i spirit guide upon the significance of this little event, the following
i (| reply was given
(I “In order to cure, or at least alleviate, the sick person present, it
j(i was necessary to make an impression upon her mind, and it was for
| j I that purpose that we brought and took away the little bird. This
j ! apport will do the invalid good.”
j ( j Quest. Did you make it ?
| Si Ans. That was not necessary ; there are plenty of sparrows flying
||| about. We took this one from the roof of the house; it was simply an
! (! apport.
jjj Q.uest. As we did not see it fly from the window to the library, how
|(j did it get there ?
| (i Ans. It did not fly in or out of the room. ',We brought it in enveloped
||| in our “ fluid.” It was when we let it go that you saw it, and when we
| (i took it again it became invisible. N. Fuel,
!}i 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
I \; THE EDUCATION OF CHILDREN.
|(] Sir,—To make my method of education practically understood, so
that it may be practically carried out, I must dismiss from my mind, as
| (| well as from the thoughts of others, the possibility of mothers teaching
I (j their own children. Mothers, in the lower classes, could not teach the
| (| children; they are obliged to clean, cook, wash, mend and make clothes,
|]; and see to their husbands. The best part of their early married years
|] j is taken up, besides domestic duties, by confinements and the nursing of
j(j the baby. All married women, or housewives, have their time fully
i( | taken up by their daily duties; how it is any married woman finds time
iji to “go out” and “ amuse ” herself is more than I can understand. If
tjf only to “ please her husband ” (and duty to a husband—a nasty man,
!(| most likely) is the first duty of a married woman. So all people say, and
Ki there are undeniable texts in the Bible which foster this idea of a
i(| woman’s first duty. She goes to the theatre with him. “Home must
|i| be dull,” is people’s general idea. The monotony of home life “some-
!?j thing excruciating.” Going out means dress—dressing. So, in addition
|J| to all the hard work a woman must do at home, and which,in reality, is
| (! pleasure, must be added the duties of society, which entail finer dressing,
«{ finer washing, finer mending. This is too much work. The conse-
ff j quence is, everything, for want of sufficient time, gets done badly. The
|(| housewife learns that occupation at home is labour, that amusement out
|( | of home is pleasure. If the husbands were followers of the Gospel, if
is I men now-a-days lived as Christ commanded, I should not speak of them
|(| as “nasty” men, nor would I exhibit evident annoyance at the notion
(| that a wife’s first duty is to her husband. It cannot be expected that a
fjj superior woman, fond of her home, should, for the sake of amusing her
1(1 husband, leave it. Such weakness would be dangerous; a giving way
ft i to it has brought many an inestimable woman into trouble, scrapes,, and
F And. 11, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST. 21
misery. A wife’s first duty must be to her home, her husband’s home,
and her children’s home. It is impossible a woman who cannot afford to
keep a servant can conscientiously enjoy her life out of her own home,
however small it may be. Four walls can be, and want to be, kept
clean; hot water has to be managed, meat prepared, vegetables sliced,
blanched. The mending! there’s always mending to be done, and beds
to be made. What is not there to be done at home! Marketing,
keeping accounts, are other household pleasures; and if a woman per¬
forms all such duties carefully and punctually, her day is well filled,
and her life is a happy one, even if her husband is no companion
to her. It is very clear, therefore, that a housewife thus fully em¬
ployed could not possibly devote herself tor the education of her
children, and that another class of woman must be found to train them.
I hold that if a person is trained to do one thing thoroughly, not super¬
ficially, well, should circumstances force that person to undertake some
other employment, in a very short time the difficulties thereof will be
thoroughly mastered. A good deal depends upon the individual power
of combination or determination possessed by that person, yet upon the
principle that being able to discover one Chinese puzzle gives a clue to
all the others, so it is with all kinds of acquirements. Few people, in
consequence of the patchwork education they have received, can learn
even when shown how; but others have a natural power of teaching
themselves, and these almost invariably make the best teachers. As
therefore it is only in the nature of things that mothers, however well
disposed, cannot devote themselves, except nominally, to their children,
it becomes an accepted fact that others must train and teach them, and
as my experience teaches me that enforcing discipline is not time wasted,
even on a very young baby, it cannot be sent at too early an age to a creche
where it will not be allowed to scream with temper or fretfulness more
than half the day long. The first thing to teach a baby is patience. It
is quite a mistaken idea that it is a good thing for a baby to be amused
all day long. A baby accustomed to be amused and nursed by an igno¬
rant girl, becomes an odious little creature. When not in his juvenile
nurse’s arms, or “ keetsy-keetsied ” by her, it makes itself odious to all
around. No one can hear himself talk. Baby over-squalls the whole
house, and that baby is deservedly looked upon as a bad-tempered,
odious little wretch, and people pity the parents for being so tormented.
In what I shall have to say about education I shall no more hold forth
about mothers in whatever class they may be. They cannot teach
their children. The house-wife, “ Lady of the House f as she is called
as we ascend the scale, has her house to look after, her dress, her visits,
her parties. She can indulge in artistic pursuits, tasteful furniture, &c.
It is only a wonder that any human being, man or woman, can feel as if
they had nothing to do; if it were not so the amount of newspapers,
periodicals, novels, which are published, could have no reason to exist.
Georgina Weldon.
Tavistock House, Tavfstock-square.
FREE WISDOM.
Sir,—If there is the greatest freedom in the most perfect order,
then many of us misinterpret the highest meaning of freedom. There
are those who would like free avarice and free anger. Also there is
a class that have already proclaimed a determination to have free
society. Another class, in speaking of love, contend that it should be
the servant and not the master of wisdom. If this class is right, then
we need among the Spiritualists a free wisdom party, which will include
all of the freedom, social or otherwise, that the economy of human
nature requires. And this free wisdom party should contain within its
sphere every Spiritualist that is or that is to be. The marriage and
divorce laws of the whole world need a little reforming, and here is a
fine field for the practical work of free wisdom. E. W. Baldwin.
Milwaukee, Wis., U.S.A., May 30th, 1876.
DANTE ON THE SOUL.
Sir,—In a most remarkable work by Judge Holmes, of St. Lewis,
America, in proof of Lord Bacon having been the real author of the
plays attributed to William Shakespeare, he referred to “ that divine
revelation which the shade of the poet Statius made to Dante when,
under the guidance of the soul of Virgil, he had reached the seventh hill
in Purgatory, concluding in these words” (the words are given in Italian,
but my readers will, I dare say, be content with the translation):
“ But how an infant of the animal
Doth come, thou seest not yet: this is such point
That wiser men than thou have err’d therein,—
They who by their own doctrine have disjoined
From soul the possible intelligence,
Because they saw no organ by’t assum’d.
Open thy heart to th’ very truth which comes,
And know thou that as soon as in the foetus
The articulated brain is once perfected,
Himself kindly to’t the First Mover turns,
On so much art of nature, and inspires
A new spirit, with virtue all replete ;
So that you see what’s found there active, shoots
His essence in, and makes a soul distinct,
Which lives, and feels, and rules itself in self.”—Purg., c. xxv.
To which the judge adds, that “The ascent from the bottom of the
animal kingdom up to the top, as from the vesicular cell up to the full-
grown man, is by a wide scale of steps and degrees. Until a nerve is
reached there can be no pretence that any special psychical power
exists in any particular structure.” “ Dr. Carpenter thinks there is no
mind, or soul, below the vertebrates. What his idea of mind or soul is,
it would be difficult to determine or define.” Perhaps intellectual
principle, or vital principle, as defined by Dr. Johnson, might best
explain it. Henry G, Atkinson,
Boulogne.
H I “ S. J. BABEL, ESQ.” •
||| Sir,—There is an unfortunate misprint in Mr. Wiese’s letter about
ijj “ S. J. Sabel, Esq. ” in last week’s Spiritualist, which makes the test
; j i look much less complete than it really is. As printed, the line runs, ?f I
11 j was told that a gentleman of the above name, J. Sabel, had died lately.”
i I But it is evident from the context that it ought to have been S. J. Sabel,
||| as it is subsequently written, “ The deceased, S. J. Sabel, &c.”; so that
! | it appears that a person of the name mentioned at Dr. Slade’s really
| i passed away within a day of the date fixed as about the period of his
j i death—“ I passed away about the 15th at Wiesbaden.’’ H, W.
I SPIRITUALISM AND MEN OF SCIENCE.
Sir,—It is impossible to deny that the passages in the history of
Spiritualism to which you refer in your article of this date, fully justify
your animadversions on the conduct of scientific investigators and
contemners of investigation. They have been guilty of insolence and
stupidity. Yes, sir, I dare to impute stupidity to the man whom
our facts, “ even if true, do not interest,” although he be a Huxley,
immeasurably my superior in intellect and knowledge. We owe them
no kindness, and I do not know that policy dictates any soft words.
But we to ant them. We want them more than your editors, more than
your “ highly cultured section of society.” We want their names, and
we want their brains. The great majority of mankind are led or
misled by authority. Editors live, or their papers live, by popularity.
Ridicule, or the fearful and intolerable imputation of believing more
than other people, nine out of every ten of the “cultivated” shrink
from as or more than they would shrink from a libel on their morals.
Yourself excepted, sir, I have not the smallest faith in editors, and as
for the cultivated classes they would come in by hundreds and thou¬
sands if a Herbert Spencer or a Dr. Carpenter were to tell them they
might open their eyes and their mouths without being laughed at.
M.A. (Oxon) tells us that he has succeeded in inducing an eminent
man of science to go, or to promise to go, to Dr. Slade. All honour to
M.A. (Oxon), for, most assuredly, if that eminent person (it is pretty
generally known who he is) does go, and sees what everybody sees who
visits Slade—prejudiced as he is, prepossessed as he is, he will go a
second time and a third time, and at last he will have to face the
alternative of either ceasing to believe in his own scientific honesty and
love of truth, or of saying that to the world about Spiritualism which
will make the interest in the subject spread like wildfire through the
land. But are we to depend on the individual efforts of two or three
who, like M.A. (Oxon), appreciate the supreme importance of this
passing opportunity % Your article is not encouraging. In estimating
the probability of the facts being again ignored or mis-stated by men
of science, you seem to me to leave out of sight the difference between
the conditions of investigation offered to them formerly and now. Of
course, if we had to deal with men who were consciously and
designedly dishonest on this or any subject, there would be no
more to be said. But no one, surely, however indignant he
may be at the incidents of which you remind us, little consistent
as these are with intellectual honesty, would for a moment suggest this.
For my own part, I do not believe that there is a Fellow of the Royal
Society who would not be as incapable of suppressing or purposely
misrepresenting a scientific fact once explicitly recognised in his own
mind, as of picking a pocket. And depend upon it, that in every case
I in which a scientific tribunal has dealt unfairly with the facts of Spirit¬
ualism, there has been something or other—circumstance of suspicion,
or apparent defect of proof—that to minds warped with prejudice
j would seem to justify a hostile verdict, or an abrupt abandonment of
the inquiry.
Do we not all know how difficult it is to get unequivocal phenomena
j under test conditions, even with mediums of unquestionable power ?
| Are we not all but too familiar with cases of gross and impudent
| cheating by nevertheless genuine mediums, which fill experienced
Spiritualists with vexation and disgust, and make sceptics turn away
| with unutterable scorn from the whole business ? I am not, however,
suggesting that men of science have not had and rejected good evi¬
dence, but I maintain that they have not yet been presented with the
| best. This we are now in a position to offer them. It may be summed
| up in three words—Light, Certainty, Objectivity. I claim for Dr.
| Slade that prejudice, however confirmed, will be able to discover no
I loophole, no crevice through which even the scientific conscience can
wriggle out of an admission. And if we get that admission—get it
not from one eminent physicist or from two, but from the number
from whom, if we can only beguile them into that room in Bedford-
place, common moral honesty, and not the rarer intellectual honesty,
I will extract it—Spiritualism will take rank as an accepted truth, and
I as an incipient science in England, before the year is out. Then, and
not before, will the Editors venture or be compelled to speak out,
tumbling over each other in their several anxiety to protest that they,
; for their part, have never committed themselves to a hasty or unphilo-
! sophical judgment on an obscure subject, which now, upon the authority
| of Professor A. and Dr. B., must be held entitled to the gravest con¬
sideration, &c.
To conclude, I would remark that in offering our evidence, in the
first place, to men of science, we lay it before men who have come
under a peculiar and especial obligation to examine into and proclaim
| the truths of Nature.
We have a right to call upon them to publish the “discovery ” we
| put them in the way of making; they, on the other hand, have a sort
| of right to the “ earliest information.” We speak of them en bloc, as
j if scientific pursuits destroyed all individuality, and were necessarily
incompatible with “ the particular order of mind which gravitates
j into the spiritual movement.” We do as much injustice to Spiritualism
| as to physical science by this supposition. No doubt exclusive obser-
‘ vation of the laws of physical nature, severed as these are
52 THE SPIRITtJALIST. Aug. 11, 1876.
by the loss of physical V science of correspondences ” from the
spiritual, has a tendency to make the latter seem emptiness and illu¬
sion. But the root of the impulse which prompts men to give up their
lives to science is the yearning for a deeper insight into the signi¬
ficance of things. That impulse materialism, even in its recent trans¬
cendental development, can never satisfy. Depend upon it there are
men in the ranks of the Royal Society to whom our facts would not,
after all, be unacceptable. But my position is independent of this
hope. For I am steadfast in my conviction that if it is a question of
mere moral honesty, disengaged from intellectual difficulty, we shall
find men of science equal to the occasion. Bring Huxley, Tyndall,
Carpenter, Clifford, I care net which of them, face, to face with Slade,
and I maintain that the scientist will be “ beat,” and, what is more,
that he will admit that he is “ beat ” like a decently honest man.
Temple, August 4th. C. C. Massey.
WHAT ARE WORKS? |j
Sir,—I have read what appears in your issue of July 28th upon this is
subject, and it seems to me that both the correspondents who there j)
write, also A. T. A., fall short of the real import of the phrase in a j)
religious point of view, as affecting man’s state spiritually, and there-
fore immortally. !)
It a man does an act from mere habit and conventional custom, !(
there is very little of volition in it, either for weal or for woe. But ji
every sane man does acts of another character. He does acts which |)
embody in ultimate life bis ruling affection. Now the ruling affection K
of every man who has not done ihe work of repentance before God is K
evil, because it is eiiher worldly, selfish, or sensual. If either regards j)
this world’s life only, or it regards immortal life for its expected plea- l(
eures, and selfish advancement. K
Now, it is quite possible, and probable, that a culprit even in the j)
hour of death, when the fears of the consequences of his crimes are jc
vividly set before him, may feel contrition, submission, and a con- j)
sciousness of guilt; but his life’s love is fixed by a series of acts deli- |)
berately done! his very organism of soul and body has been wedded jc
together in the doing of them ; and all the force of character thereby
attained would impel him, were he again at liberty, to do the like, !)
and would speedily dry up his tears of contrition, because this con- j(
trition has no foothold in his ultimate and positive life; it is altogether h
negative, however sincere for the moment But as sin consists in* j)j
works, so does “ repentance from evil works.” When a man says to |Ci
God, “ I have sinned against heaven and in Thy sight,” he has con- |)|
deraned himself as to his works. He has willed to pray this confession j)j
as a beginning, and he has determined in spirit to arise from this Ki
sinful condition. If he carries out this resolution, all the love and i)j
power and mercy of God, and the loving ministry of His angels, and
good spirits, are ready to help him to carry out his repentant works, fyj
If he now begins to shun the sins he has confessed, which have been |)i
sinful works, he does works of repentance. He exercises faith in a i)j
power which he believes to be capable of saving him from the conse- |||
quences of bis former sinful life. But it is by no means either needful [||
or to be expected, that to be saved be must do as many good works as j)|
he has done bad ones. Spiritualism has shown clearly that man is not if]
alone in what he does; and when he has willed and shown the sin- j(.
cerity and force of bis will in refusing any longer to have for his con- |)|
trolling spirit those of a vicious character, who have hitherto been his : (
familiars, God in His providence can and will remove them farther m
away, and give him the power to associate with others who will draw i) j
near. In however short a time, or in however few cases this earnest ; <:
sincere work of repentance has been performed, it has a ground in the ij!
ultimate of his character; and being the embodiment of the life he j)!
lives the better life before his departure; and that Divine Saviour .\{\
who hath “ conquered death and hell, and led captivity captive,” will, iji
by His right hand, which is mighty to save even to the uttermost those i) j
who come to God by Him, maintain him in his newly chosen freedom, i(j
and give him power to grow in grace. !j|
It may be thought I have written dogmatically, but I respectfully j)|
submit, not therefore irrationally. J. Robinson. ])]
Hulme’s-road, Newtonheath. !)|
NORTH OF ENGLAND SPIRITUALISTS’ CONFERENCE COMMITTEE.
Sir,—A meeting of the executive of this committee was held last j
Sunday, in the Freemasons’ Hall, Newcastle-on-Tyne. The members j
present were Messrs. Miller, Martin, Wilde, Petty, Kay, Richmond,
Rhodes, Kersey, Mould, and Morse. The secretary read letters from
Mr. W. Gautrey, of Fencehonses, accepting the position of correspond¬
ing secretary for Chester-le-Street; from Mr. J. Gibson, of Bishop
Auckland, accepting the like position for that town ; from Mr. R. |
Elliott, of Choppington, who regretted his inability to do so for that
place ; and from Mr. D. Richmond, of Darlington, who assented. Mr.
Richmond was then appointed to the executive, after which he sug¬
gested that a donative or co-operative fund be formed, in addition to
the guarantee fund, so that those who could only subscribe a small
amount per week might do so, and that local collectors be appointed to
receive offei’ings. - lb was resolved to carry out this plan ; also that a
deputation be appointed to attend the next committee meeting at
Ohester-le-Street. The committee then resolved to hold meetings in
Choppington, Darlington, Bishop Auckland, and South Shields during
the present quarter. J. J. Morse, Hon. See.
30, Tyneinouth-road, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Mrs. WooDFORDe, being about to visit Teignmouth, will not hold
seemm until after her return, of which due notice will be given.
Mr. D. D. Home’s new address is Pension Mury-Monney, Clarens,
Switzerland.
PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIENCES OF MRS. WOODHULL.
The American press in general admits that Mrs. Woodhull acts from
what she believes to be high motives in heading that movement with
which her name is so closely associated, and that she is thoroughly
sincere, no matter how far she may be believed to be in error. With
these social questions we do not deal, but merely put on record, as a
matter of history, that she has had curious psychological experiences,
as set forth by one of her admirers in the Philadelphia Sunday Press,
of July 9th, thus:—
Mrs. Woodhull’s school studies were, literally, a daily miracle. She
would glance at a page and know it by heart. The tough little
mysteries which bother the bewildered brains of the country-school
dullards, were always to her as vivid as the sunshine, and when sent
on errands she believes she has been lifted over the ground by her
angelic helpers—“ lest she should dash her foot against a stone.” When
she had anything to carry, an unseen hand would sometimes carry it for
her. All this may seem an illusion to everybody else, but will never he
other than a reality to her.
Let me cite some details of these spiritual phenomena, curious in
themselves, and illustrating the forces that impel her career.
“ My spiritual vision,” she says, “ dates back as early ‘ as my third
year.’ In Victoria’s birth-place, a young woman named Rachel Scribner,
about twenty-five years of age, who had been Victoria’s nurse, suddenly
died. On the day of her death Victoiia was picked up by the departing
spirit and borne off into the spirit-wotld. To this day Mrs. Woodhull
describes vividly her childish sensations as she felt herself gliding
through the air—-like St. Catherine, winged away by the angels. Her
mother testifies that while this scene was enacting to the child’s inner
consciousness, her little body lay as if dead for three hours.
Two. of her sisters, who had died in childhood, were constantly
present with her. She would talk to them as a girl tattles to her dolls.
They were her most fascinating playmates, and she never cared for any
others while she had their invisible society.
In her tenth year, one day while sitting by the side of a cradle rocking
a sick babe to sleep, she says that two angels came, and gently pushing
her away, began to fan the child with their white hands, until its face
grew fresh and rosy. Her mother then suddenly entered the chamber,
and beheld in amazement the little nurse lying in a trance on the floor,
her face turned upwards towards the ceiling, and the pining babe appa¬
rently in the bloom of youth.
The chief among her spiritual visitants, and one who has been a
majestic guardian to her from the earliest years of her remembrance,
she describes as a matured man of stately figure, clad in a Greek tunic,
solemn and graceful in his aspect, strong in his influence, and altogether
dominant over her life. For many years, notwithstanding an almost
daily visit to her vision, he withheld his name, nor would her most im¬
portunate questionings induce him to utter it. But he always promised
that in due time he would reveal his identity. Meanwhile he prophe¬
sied to her that she would rise to great distinction; that she would
publish and conduct a journal; and that finally, to crown her career,
she would become the ruler of her people. At length, after patiently
waiting on this spirit-guide for twenty years, one day in 1868, during a
temporary sojourn in Pittsburg, and while she was sitting at a marble
table, he suddenly appeared to her, and wrote on the table in English
letters the name “Demosthenes.” At first the writing was indistinct,
hut grew to such a lustre that the brightness filled the room. The
apparition, familiar as it had been before, now affrighted her to trembling.
The stately and commanding spirit told her to journey to New York,
where she would find at No. 17, Great Jones-street, a house in readi¬
ness for her, equipped in all things to her use and taste. She unhesi¬
tatingly obeyed, although she never before had heard of Great Jones-
street, nor until that revelatory moment had. entertained an intention of
taking such a residence. On entering the house, it fulfilled in reality
the picture which she saw of it in her vision—the self-same hall, stair¬
ways, rooms and furniture. Entering with some bewilderment into the
library, she reached out her hand by chance, and without knowing what
she did, took up a book which, on idly looking at its title, she saw (to
her blood-chilling astonishment) to he The Orations of Demosthenes.
From that time onward, the Greek statesman has been even more pal¬
pably than in her earlier years her prophetic monitor, mapping out the
life which she must follow, as a chart for a ship sailing the sea. She
believes him to be her familiar spirit—the author of her public policy,
and the inspirer of her published words. Without intruding my own
opinion as to the authenticity of this inspiration, I have often thought
that if Demosthenes could arise and speak English, he could hardly
excel'the fierce light and heat of some of the sentences which I have
heard from this singular woman in her glowing hours.
Previous to this there had occurred a remarkable incident, which
more than ever confirmed her faith in the guardianship of spirits. One
day, during a severe illness of her son, she left him to visit her parents,
and on her return was startled with the news that the boy had died two
hours before. “ No,” she exclaimed, “ I will not permit his death.”
And with frantic energy she stripped her bosom naked, caught up his
lifeless form, pressed it to her own, and sitting thus, flesh to flesh,
glided insensibly into a trance, in which she remained seven hours, at
the end of which time she awoke; a perspiration started from his
clammy skin, and the child that had been thought dead was brought
back again to life—and lives to this day.
The malice of enemies, together with her bold opinions on social
questions, have combined to give her reputation a stain. But no slander
ever fell on any human soul with greater injustice. A more unsullied
woman does not walk the earth. She carries inhervery face the fair legend
of a character kept pure by a sacred fire within. She is one of those
aspiring devotees who tread the earth merely as a stepping-stone to
Aug. 11, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
23
heaven, and whose chief ambition is finally to present herself at the
supreme tribunal “spotless, and without wrinkle, or blemish, or any
such thing.” Knowing her as well as I do, I cannot hear an accusa¬
tion against her without recalling Tennyson’s line of King Arthur—
Is thy white blameless ness accounted blame ?
Once a sick woman, who had been given up by the physicians, and
who had received from a Catholic priest extreme unction, in expecta¬
tion of. death, was put into the care of Mrs. Woodhull, who attempted
to lure her back to life. This zealous woman, unwilling to be baffled,
stood over her patient day and night, neither sleeping nor eating for ten
days and nights, at the end of which time she was gladdened, not only
at witnessing the sick woman’s recovery, but at finding that her own
body, instead of weariness or exhaustion from the double lack of sleep
and food, was more fresh and bright than at the beginning. Her face
during this discipline grew uncommonly fair and ethereal; her flesh
wore a look of transparency; and the ordinary earthiness of mortal
nature began to disappear from her physical frame, and its place to be
supplied with what she fancied were the foretokens of a spiritual body.
These phenomena were so vivid to her own consciousness and to the
observation of her friends, that she was led to speculate profoundly on
the transformation from our mortal to our immortal state, deducing the
idea that the time will come when the living human body, instead of
ending in death by disease and dissolution in the grave, will be gra¬
dually refined away, until it is entirely sloughed off, and the soul only,
and not the flesh remains. It is in this way that she fulfils to her
darling hope the prophecy that “ The last enemy that shall be destroyed
is death."
OBJECTIONS TO SPIRITUALISM.
From “ The Sussex Daily News.”
The letter on Spiritualism in Saturday’s Sussex Daily Netos requires
some answer from an orthodox point of view. It is to be regretted
that those who can only regard the influence of such productions as
peruicious should not deem them worthy of notice. Not that contro¬
versy is always judicious, but a brief and temperate reply can never
be out of place. The letter of “ A Spiritualist ” was thus occasioned.
In a notice of a work relating a very various and extensive series of
‘‘experiences,” the reviewer pointed out that notwithstanding the
wonderful feats that were said to have been achieved by the spirits
they had never directed their extraordinary and superhuman powers
to any purpose of direct utility except where, in a very few instances,
physical cures were said to have been wrought. Even clairvoyance,
the most promising power, perhaps, of all, had never been turned to
anv purpose, legitimate or illegitimate, beyond the satisfaction of an
idle curiosity. In the work that was reviewed, too, a few cases of
alleged prophecy were related, but they were so vague as to be useless,
and I am not aware of any case in which Spiritualism has attempted a
public prediction of the future developments of current events, un¬
speakably valuable as such would be in demonstration of its claims and
assertions. In attempting his self-imposed task, “ A Spiritualist ’’ has
not followed up the line of thought thus suggested, but endeavours
to prove the utility of the science on grounds which, if higher, are far
less tangible and satisfactory. Some delicacy may very properly be
felt in discussing religion in the secular press, but it can no doubt be
judiciously done, and one must not hesitate to follow where the sub¬
ject leads. It is the contention of “ A Spiritualist ” then, that Spirit¬
ualism has revealed a future life as it never has been before (indeed he
speaks almost as though the idea were a novel one); that it has
“ abolished the fear of death;” and has shown (as far as can be
gathered from a rather misty phraseology) that a man’s future state
depends upon his present “ inner mind.” Now no argument of this
sort can be satisfactory which does not take into consideration the
alleged revelations upon which Christianity is based, and candidly
show the relation of Spiritualism thereto. Had the spirits revealed all
this to the philosophers of heathen Rome it would have been justly
received with joy, but “A Spiritualist” seems to forget that the doc¬
trines for which he claims a novelty were revealed eighteen hundred
years ago by Him “ who brought life and immortality to light,” who
“ destroyed him that had the power of death,” whose disciples are con¬
sequently no longer “ through fear of death subject to bondage,” but
confident that “ to die is gain,” and who declared that “ by thy words
shalt thou be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned.”
It is true that the last text is modified by others, opening up a subject
into which it is impossible to enter, but as it stands it may serve, as
would others, to show that in this particular as in the rest the doc¬
trines of Spiritualism are not much of a novelty. Is it then but a
later version of Christianity ? Unfortunately it is rather a miserable
parody. It has no sacred literature that may be appealed to with
universal consent, no code of morals to which its members subscribe.
It will by no means confess the authority of the Hebi*ew Scriptures—
knowing how suicidal it would be to do so—yet draws all its best ideas
from that source. Its professed informants are confessedly unreliable,
and at no time has any consistent and definite information been
obtained from them upon the nature of their existence and employ¬
ment, upon their relations or our relations to the Author of the Uni¬
verse, or upon any of the problems that oppress the more thoughtful
section of humanity. Uiterly destitute of all the ennobling ideas of
Christianity, Spiritualism has at best revealed a state of existence, if
such it be, which is far more a loathsome parody of the Christian
heaven than is the most degraded type of monkey of the “ human form
divine.’’ Its phenomena are, I admit, most mysterious, its existence a
most interesting and astounding fact. But there are hypotheses which
will account for it in a manner that would utterly rob it of all claim to
respect, and which I would at least as readily accept as to prefer the
rhapsodical ramblings of some of its leaders to the grand simplicity of
11
n
!
id
1
II
<
id
id
I
Id
New Testament teaching. At the same time inquiry is not to be con¬
demned ; if only some of our leading minds in religion and soience
would take the matter up, the truth might be more readily arrived at,
and the further spread prevented of what I cannot but deem in one
sense or another a miserable delusion.
A REMARKABLE MATERIALISATION SEANCE IN
NEWCASTLE.
Miss Fairlamb’s seances are, in spite of the attractions of the fine
summer weather, well attended. On Sunday morning, July 30th,
twenty-two members and friends of the Newcastle Society of Spirit¬
ualists met at their rooms in Weirs-court.
Miss Fairlamb entered the cabinet, which had been already examined
by the strangers present, and after a few preliminary remarks by Mr.
Armstrong, the president, Mr. Hare rose and offered an appropriate
prayer, which was followed by the company singing the hymn, “ Praise
ye the Lord.” After a few minutes’ subsequent conversation with
“ Cissy,” through the organism of the medium, she, according to pro¬
mise, materialised herself in front of the cabinet, in full view of the
sitters. The curtains were pulled a little on one side from the interior
of the cabinet, and a small white patch, about the size of a lady’s hand¬
kerchief, was seen on the ground ; it gradually grew larger, till it as¬
sumed the size and shape of “ Cissy” as sue usually appears, viz., a
draped white figure, about two-and-a-half to three feet in height, with
black hands, arms, and face, more or less covered with drapery, or
exposed as the different movements of the figure accelerated or hindered
the observations. At one time, as she stood entirely outside the cabinet,
a gleam of sunshine, through the ventilator in the ceiling, shone with
brilliancy on the black hand and the gilt bell she was shaking, also on
the lower portion of the dress. Facilities were also afforded for obser¬
vation to most of the sitters by allowing them to leave their seats, some
to shake hands, others, as in the case of Miss Coltman, to kiss her, and,
in the case of a visitor from New Delavel, who had not been at a seance
before, to go and examine her drapery. In fact, to nearly every sitter
some little attention was paid. “ Cissy ” remained in full view for
upwards of an hour, with the exception of retiring behind the curtain
for about a couple of minutes, evidently to gain more power, for on re¬
appearing she was decidedly larger, perhaps an inch or two taller ; she
handled a vacant chair freely, and, taking the back of it, she lifted it on
to her head, legs uppermost. Several other evidences of power were
given. Some minor physical phenomena took place inside the cabinet
while “Cissy” was outside. She sometimes spoke in monosyllables.
The seance terminated at about twenty minutes past twelve by the dis¬
appearance of “ Cissy,” who gradually during the last quarter of an
hour diminished in size and stature in the sight of all present. The
amount of illumination used on the occasion was that of a ship’s lamp,
giving a subdued red light, and in addition several streams of sunlight,
which made their way through the curtains, sufficient to observe the
time by a watch.—J. T. Rhodes.
Mr. Arthur Colman, the well-known medium, informs us that he
leaves London this week for Antwerp, Brussels, and other parts of the
continent.
The Rev. Thomas Colley, curate of Portsmouth, so well known to
many of the readers of these pages, is about to leave his present charge,
St. Mary’s, of which he has been sole minister for the past two years,
and much appreciated, and is seeking an incumbency or curacy where
he may have the same liberty of opinion on tabooed subjects which he
has enjoyed under the liberal vicar of the parish that now loses him.
Is there no wealthy or influential Spiritualist who can further his interest
in this respect ?
Lecture in Newcastle.—On Sunday evening, July 30th, Mr. Mould
gave an address on “ The Conflict between Science and Religion,” in
which he endeavoured, by illustrating the theories, life-work and perse¬
cutions of some of the great teachers of the world, including Aristotle,
Copernicus, Galileo, Martin Luther, and also quoting from Herbert
Spenser, to show what science has done for the world. He thought
that the world was now more ready to believe with Aristotle that all
nature was ever ready to burst into life and development, than with
Augustine, that the earth was the centre of the universe, and that
divine revelation admitted of no progression or improvement. He (the
lecturer) did not wish to set himself up. as an authority; he only intro¬
duced the subject to enable some who might be there, perhaps, for the
first time, to work out their own individuality, and to see whether—if
Spiritualists could prove another state of existence—it was not possible
to lay up an accumulated fund of knowledge available for a future life of
progress.
The Spiritualist Scientific Research Committee. — Last Friday
evening a meeting of the Scientific Research Committee of the National
Association of Spiritualists was held at 38, Great Russell-street, Lon¬
don, under the presidency of Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald. The other
members present were Mr. W, H. Coffin, Mr. C. C. Massey, Mr.
D. H. Wilson, Mr. J. W. Gray, the Rev. W. W. Newbould, Dr. Carter
Blake, and Mr. W. H. Harrison. It having been pointed out that the
conditions of darkness and of ventilation at a seance influenced both
the health of the sitters and the manifestations, it was resolved that
two ventilating shutters for the stance-room should be constructed.
Two movable ventilating boxes, to be attached to the shutters, were
ordered to be made; each box to contain a long slit and air passages
permitting air to pass, but excluding light, and giving altogether thirty-
four square inches of ventilation. Mr. Coffiu was authorised to super¬
intend their construction, and it was supposed that when once perfect
working models had been made, others could be turned cut on the same
pattern at a cheaper rate, so as to become articles in the maiket
suitable for the ventilation of any rooms in which dark stances are to
be held. It was also resolved to engage Mr. Eglinton for four stances
in October.
24
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 11, 1876.
SPIRITUALISM AND PHYSICISTS.
The main point in a letter in this number of The j
Spiritualist, by Mr. Charles 0. Massey, in favour of inviting |!
men of science to seances, in spite of their reprehensible j j
actions in the past in relation to Spiritualism, is that the |j
conditions have changed, and that now in broad daylight we j
can present to them inexplicable phenomena, whereas the I
power of doing so with precision did not exist before. From j
Mr. Massey’s point of view that position is a true One, be- jj
cause he and some who think with him have had but two or j
three years’ experience, while a wave of materialisation and j(
dark seance manifestations has been passing over this j
country. Before that, Mrs. Mary Marshall gave regularly j
in the strongest daylight a number of seances, in which j
phenomena occurred quite as powerful and inexplicable as jj
those now seen through the mediumship of Dr. Slade, but, j
as usual, when she had too many sitters, or when she ' j|
sat in the dark, the manifestations were more open to cavil, jj
It was then a common incident for tables to run about the jj
room in daylight with nobody touching them, and sometimes Ijj
to rise in the air with such power, that excited and per- jjj
spiring disbelievers with all their pressing could scarcely j j
force them down to the floor. On more exceptional occa- jj
sions Mr. Marshall would sit playing a fiddle, while a small j j
table would in daylight, through the mediumship of his j j
wife, dance to the tune without being touched by anybody, j j
Mr. Benjamin Coleman, of Bernard Villas, Upper Norwood, j i
took a hard materialist—Professor Huxley’s father-in-law— j j
to see manifestations like these ; he did see them, and pro- j j
mised to bear witness to his well-known relative of the facts j j
which came under his observation, and to our knowledge other j j
eminent men of science were made aware th at such phenomena j !
were to be seen in broad daylight. Did they then attend j j
to investigate ? Not a bit of it. Where then is the founda- jj j
tion for Mr.fMassey’s argument, that the conditions have jjj
now changed? To some extent we admit that they have j j
altered, for Spiritualism has since then grown more power- j j
ful and more popular, so that the scientific world cannot so i j
well afford to taboo it. For example, in St. Petersburg the jjj
professors at the university are by no means to be envied for j j
their recent flippant and hasty action in relation to Spirit- j j
ualism; instead of being applauded for the same, the Russian j j
press has censured them, and Spiritualism having spread j j
largely among the nobility, the professors are now at vari- j j
ance in this matter with the highest powers in the Russian j j
Court, and find themselves in a veritable hornet’s nest. Like j j
causes will tend to produce like effects in England. If we I f
let English men of science alone, they will continue to be i f
the laughing-stock of the ever-increasing number of persons j j
who nightly observe the phenomena in their own homes, j i
The keeping up of such an example before the eyes of the j j
public seems almost a moral duty, for most people pay too j j
much deference to the authority of great names, and it is a j j
good thing to establish in every home evidence to show that jjj
it is most dangerous to the interests of truth to trust either jjj:
to the priests of science or religion. jj j
Whilst there are thus certain great advantages in the |jj
ignoring of the existence of the scientific world by Spirit- 1)1
ualists, there are, on the other hand, also many reasons why j j
an opposite course should be pursued towards them as set j j
forth with much power by Mr. Massey. Perhaps, on the jj j
whole, his case is the strongest; with an overwhelming j j
victory founded upon the irrevocable facts of nature lying j j
before us in the future, it may be the more magnanimous jjj
course not like Shylock to exact the “ pound of flesh,” but j j
to let bygones be bygones, remembering that we are all more j j
or less the children of error. After all, when the ice is once j j
melted Spiritualism will spread with more celerity, and gain j 1
for itself more influence in the scientific world than any- j j
where else, wherefore we now yield to Mr. Massey, and will j j
assist in doing everything possible to give facilities for ob- j j
servation to men of science. j j
Mrs. Kate Fox Jencken has been on a visit of more than a week’s jji
duration to Mr. Martheze, of Brighton, and many seances have been ijl
held there. Mr. Martheze writes to us: <l The principal fact is that we jji
received a communication by direct writing, signed ‘ B. Franklin,’ on i( j
private matters. It was written with pen and ink, while all present jji
were holding each other’s hands."
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN DAYLIGHT.
The success attending the seances of Dr. Slade proves
what a demand there is in this country for a few simple
physical manifestations taking place in daylight, free from
dubious conditions. This example should be an encourage¬
ment to English mediums to sit for manifestations of a
somewhat similar kind, and to strive for quality rather than
quantity. If, for instance, a medium would sit daily for a
few weeks, to obtain with precision and certainty the float¬
ing in the air for half a minute in broad daylight of any
small object upon the table—a spoon, fork, inkstand, or any¬
thing else—there would be more demand for his services, and
more remuneration, than if he obtained a large variety of
manifestations in the dark which drew from him ten times more
vital energy. At present physical mediums, generally speak¬
ing, try to get too much; they should endeavour to get only
one or two manifestations with precision and certainty, free
from doubtful appearances ; they would then suffer less in
health, in annoyances from disbelievers, and in pocket. If
two mediums would sit to get letters written by sceptics,
regularly carried in a few minutes between circles many
miles apart, as Baron Kirkup, of Florence, once did, it
would be a most useful manifestation, and a death-blow to
the psychic force theory.
The phenomena evolved at dark and materialisation
seances have been of much value in throwing light upon the
philosophy of spiritual manifestations, but have not been of
corresponding value to the outside public, or for proselytising
purposes. Hence a reaction is setting in, and an increasing
demand is springing up for manifestations in daylight;
those mediums who first sit for and obtain such manifesta¬
tions, will therefore rise correspondingly in public request
and estimation. If physical mediums would sit for only half
the various manifestations they obtain at present, and gain
them with correspondingly increased power and precision,
they would suffer less in health. Any medium who sits
for entirely opposite kinds of manifestations, such as clair¬
voyance and physical phenomena, appears to present neither
of the two classes of manifestations in the greatest perfec¬
tion ; such seem also to suffer in health, and to lose cheerful¬
ness. It is best to keep to one class of manifestations, and
to obtain the said manifestations in daylight.
SPIRITUAL LECTURES IN LIVERPOOL.
Owing to the continued indisposition of the Rev. William Mellone,
and the unavoidable absence of Mr. John Priest, the platform at Meyer¬
beer Hall, Liverpool, was twice occupied last Sunday by Dr. William
Hitchman, the president of the Liverpool Psychological Society. In
the afternoon he discoursed upon the interesting subject of “ Spiritualism
a Necessity,” and the audience seemed highly pleased with the
original and forcible illustrations he gave of the new revelation, as
supplying a moral want of our nature, in the absence of which there
seemed an incompleteness of Divine purpose in man’s spiritual capacity.
He traced the growth of Spiritualism, from the ancient Indian faith, the
Egyptian mysteries, antiquity of the Cross, as its real symbolic expres¬
sion, through Greek and Roman paganism, Druidical teachings,
Scandinavian mythology, Mohammedanism, Brahminical transmigration
of souls (metempsychosis), and the Buddhist doctrine of Nirwana—
showing that then, as now, mankind needed it, to satisfy the longings of
the universal heart.
In the evening his subject was, “What is salvation?’’ A momen¬
tous question, he said, but one which, fairly represented, is full of
reason, science, justice, and truth, apart from the horrible dogma of
everlasting torments, or what the lecturer characterised as “ the leger¬
demain of priestcraft, to secure a chance of initiation into the heaven of
orthodoxy.” Salvation, he pointed out, concerned the present, as much
as the future life, involving deliverance from danger, moral, intellectual,
social, and physical; in the performance of those duties which pertain
to God and the rights of humanity. He protested that much might be
said for Secularism, since it was a monstrous error to suppose that the
organic life of man was to be mainly devoted to superstitious, ascetic
exercises, and contempt for bodily welfare. He added that fastings,
stripes, prayers, ceremonies, or ritualism, were mischievous delusions, if
held to have a prior claim to the divinely appointed work of self-culture,
by virtue of which our souls were enlightened, our bodies made more
healthy, our characters purified, and our spirits brought nearer to the
world of angels. Such was salvation—religious, scientific, true, and
cosmopolitan.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Mr. Bowman, of Newcastle, writes, in relation to the facts stated by Mr.
Pearce, that the sitters at Miss Nicoll’s circle did not know that the clapping
of hands was a method of summoning attendants in the East, neither did
the medium.
Aug. 11, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H.. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O. .
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit-
uaUsts,-but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in, any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon, Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. fid.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARGHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newlypublished book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years iii the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion ; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken hy Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorons
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents : The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Sims; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
, Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals |were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist.” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinimi that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of aitrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. ed.; cheap edition.
f». ed. •
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits throngb-
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORMJSHGHTY WORKS.
By Allan,Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid. '
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid. .
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and ‘details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
8s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s. .
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. dd.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid;
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.'
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S; LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post,
fis. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. -James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s
Nature’s Divine Revelations , .
Tie Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
' ~ " „ II. „ . .
„ HI.
„ IV. „ . , .
V. „ . . • ,
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis .
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest . .
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-reourring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . .
Death and the After-Life , . .
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . -
Harbinger of Health .....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence . .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers .
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . .
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained .
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves .
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . .
Conjugal LoVe; Truth v. Theology . •
Morning Lectures . . . .
s. d.
15 0
7
7
7
7
7
7
3
7
6
7
2
3
3
7
3
7
2
3
7
. 6
7
7
5
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By 0. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1785. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and (Sciences. (Pub, at 7s. fid.) 4s.;
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
S. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The SpiRiTUAiisr Newspaper . .20
Keys of the Creeds . . . ’ . 6 0
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0.
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . ... . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . , . 12 C
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.D.j. Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. .10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Trans»ated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . ... . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 G
Awas-I-Hind‘; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Coliyer, M.D. . . : .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , '. . . . • 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B. A . . ,36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . ■. . . . • 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , > . 10
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
Sr Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzi
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The latu
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each,
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gale*
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative cf
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE .OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feehng, sound common sense, and deep thought.”. fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid. -
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through-
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2s.
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Aug. Ui 187$:,
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM; PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
nalisrr, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, SprituaUst. News-
s per Branch Office, 88, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
ondob, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the. National Association of Spirit*
ualists. but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Pi ice 7a. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN Tenth edit on. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pe-u-
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep teligi -us «nd spiritual tone of her d'scourses lave ex-
ten ed her Influence far beyond the limit of her voice through
the instrumentality of-the press. This Volume contains the
gems of tKe impirat'onal utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spir t influence. Several of
them a> e attributed to the st irit of Edesr A. Poe They have
the rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and im-gery of his produc¬
tions in earth-1 fe. The Biographical Int eduction gives a
snccinct account of the means ny which these poems are given
to the world; The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtra> ed. The book 1» a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S.: COLBY Akd Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
SPIRITUAL SCIENTIST, of Boston, Mass.,
KJ B.S.A TheJ most* faithful and impartial exponent of
Sptritualism.in America. The title, Spiritual Scientist, clearly
indicates the character of the paper. Unlike all other
Spiritual journals, it gathers f*om the great authors of ancient
time the fruits of their researches into the secrets of nature
and the laws of the Spiritual Universe. On the Occult
Sciences it has many able contributors, and solicits correspon¬
dence..
Published weekly. Scientist Pub. Co., publishers. E. Gerry
Brown, Editor. Offices. 18, Exchange-street, and 24, Devon-
shire-street. The Scientist is now in its fourth volume. Terms
of subscription, in advance, 13s. per annum, including postage.
Spiritualist newspaper branch office, 38, Great Rnssell-street,
London, W.O.
Price 5s.
IRELAND: UR OF THE CHALDEES.
London: Triibner and Co., Ludgate Hill.
Reviewers’ Criticisms.
“ Irishmen ought to read this work and be proud. It is
crammed with learning which does credit to the research of
the writer.”—Christian World.
“ The somewhat startling proposition contained in the title
of this work can hardly fail to interest a considerable number
of readei s, and for those who may be inclined to take the wotk
in hand, we may briefly state that the line of argument pur¬
sued is intended to show that the Chaldeans, the Hebrews,
and the Celts are identical, the summary given at the close
being that ‘the Arpbaxadite Chaldeans were the progenitors
of the Hebrew Chaldeans, and differ only in name from the
first Gaels.’ The subject is carefully dealt with. The various
arguments are well arranged, and a large amount of corrobora¬
tive evidence is adduced in support of them, the value of which
many will be glad to test”—^od-.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paiis, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
onr fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for ns to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Newepaper Branch Office.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND
EFFECTS, by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. A review
of this pamphlet appeared in the March number of The
Spiritual Magaiine of this year. May be had of W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Kussell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Price
6d., post free, 7d.
ANNALT DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
oh the 15th of t-very month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 28.
THE HOME FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
The 1c ng-sxrrf sb d want of a rr etmpolitan centre where
SpiiiuiMlists visitir g Lerrh n can secure rt; n estic comforts
vitii-ut tie it cmvet ienee <f a i ublic hotel, h s, b. the
getter' us effoit offiitnds of ti e Cans', led t*i the estab i>n-
ment of the above. B.cme on t' e principle of. a piixate
Boarding H. nse. It, is conveniently located for the iiiineipal
railways, and ic in tl.e very atea of the spiritual n ovenient.
It* ariangetnenrs have been designed with a special view to
the requirements of Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. C. Bcrke. . .
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. BENJAMIN
COLEMAN.
COMMITTEE
The Counters of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Welwyn, Harts.
Sir rtbaries Isham, Bart., Lamport Hall Northampton.
William Howitt, H>q., Rome, Italy.
S. C. Hall, Eaq, F.S.A, 50, Holland-street, Kensington.
Alexander Colder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, South Kensington
Charles Blackburn. Esq., Didsbnry, Manchester.
W. M. Wilkinson, E-q., 44, Lincoln’s-inn-fields.
A. A. Watts, H'sq., 119, Lansdowne-road, Notting-hUl. W
S. Chinnery, E^q., 142. Strand, London, W.O.
J. Enmore .(ones Esq., Ei'more-park, S.E.
C. Townsend Hook, Esq., Snodland. Rochester, Kent.
G. N. Straw bridge, Esq., Aonanda le, Uppei Norwood, S.E.
Ccnellus Pearson, Esq . 15. Harper-stre* t, Bloomsbury.
WiRiarn Tebb, Esq., 7, Albeit-rd., -louceater-gate, Regent’s-pk.
A. T.eigh'on, Esq., 16, South Castle-street, Liverpool.
Jame- Wason, Esq.. W a son's buildings Liverpool.
Mrs. Makdougail Gregory, 21, Queen-street, Grosvenor-square.
Mrs Te*‘b. 7, Albert-ioad. Regent’s-park. N.W.
Thomas Hajle, Esq.. M.D.. The Ores' ent. Rochdale.
1 homas Shorter, Esq.. 23 Prince of Wales-road, N.W.
Jacob Dixon,Esq., M.D. 8 Oreat Orn'ond-sireet. W.O.
W. H. Harrison, Esq., 88, Great Russell-streCt, W.O.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., Junior United Service Club, S.W,
W C. Copperthwaite, Esq.* Maltoii, Yorkshire, ,
On mwell F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S., 2, Great Winchester-street-
buildings, E.C.
The Hon. J. O’Sullivan, late U.S. Minister to the Court of
Portugal, 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Hay Nisbet, Esq., 219, George-street, Glasgow.
Mrs. Hamilton, York-place, Ponman-square
John I amont, Esq., Finfleld, Liverpool.
Thos. Slater, Esq., 19, Leamington-rd.-villas, Westhourne-pk.
Andrew Glendinning, Esq., 4. Castledine road, Anerly, S.E
W. J. Williams, Esq., Clarence Club, Waterloo-place, S.W.
Epes Sargent, Esq, Boston, U.S. A.
Subscriptions, which will be duly acknowledged, may be
forwarded to the bon. Treasurer, Alexander Calder, Esq , 1,
Hereford-square, South Kensington, S,W.; or to the Hon
See., A. JOy, Esq., 69, Great Russell-street, W.C.
The followin sums have been already subscribed:—
Charles Blackburn, Esq    £50 0 0
A. V. H        30 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq    25 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq     25 0 0
William Tebb, Esq    25 0 0
A. L. Elder, Esq...,    25 0 0
- W. M. Wilkinson, Esq.        20 0 0
O. v. Hoffmann       20 0 0
■ James Wagon, Elsq.      20 0 0
Friends at St. Petersburg       19 7 6
Friends at Glasgow, per Hi Nisbet, Esq  10 16 0
Thomas Grant, Esq      10 10 0
A Friend      10 10 0
Mrs. St. Claire   : t   10 0 0
W. J. Williams, Esq    10 0 0
Two Friends and Neighbours   10 0 0
W. C. Coppertbwaite, Esq      10 0 0
G. N. Strawbridge, Esq.     10 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq  ;  10 0 0
• J. Ridley, Esq...................  10 0 0
Mrs. Hamilton      10 0 0
Mrs. Daun   10 0 0
, T. J. Allman, Esq.;.  10 0 0
Mrs. Hennings       5 6 0
Mrs. Berry    ;     5 5 0
J.-Y. Yemori, Esq............I.........      5 5 0
' W. S. Godbe   5 5 0
W. H. Harrison, Esq.      5 0 0
O. Townsend Hook, Esq..;..    5 0 0
William Howitt, Esq. ...;.....;.......;.J.    5 0 0
Enmore Jones, Esq     ...'. • 5 0 0
A. A. Watts, Esq.   5 0 0
Mrs. Watts      6 0 0
Walter Weldon, Esq.     • 6 0 0
P. G.       j 5 0 0
M. G. S.........     5 0 0
C. F. Valley, Esq.      5 0 0
J. H. D       5 0 0
F.'Griffin, Esq.         5 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart         6 0 0
J. S.Law.Esq      5 0 0
Scribo  ;    5 0 0
Friend per Mrs. Yemen...    3 3 0
G de.Liagre      3 3 0
C. Pearson, Esq..   3 3 0
Miss Clark       3 0 0
S. O. Hall, Esq     2 2 0
John Marshall, Esq   2 2 0
- C. Stephens, Esq   2 2 0
Dr. R. Baikie         2 2 0
F. ;$j§yp   ...I    2 2 0
Rev. W. Whitear    2 2 0
Miss Whitear I        2 2 0
. Thomas Scott, Esq.       2 2 0
D. G. Fitzgerald, Esq.      2 2 0
Miss Watts     2 2 0
T. Skinner, Esq., M.D.     2 2 0
L. J.        2 2 0
G. Damiani          2 2 0
T. Shorter, Esq.         2 0 0
M. De Veh 2 0 0
John Lamont, Esq    2 0 0
C. McLean, Esq     2 0 0
Miss Douglas .'   2 0 0
J. Hare, Esq, and Friends........  2 0 0
Rev. J. Manners  j  2 0 0
R.B.          110
D. H.W         lio
A. Glendinning, hsq.   ......'...V....   110
W. Glynes, Esq   110
J. T. Peele, Esq..;..........,.................;  110
Dr. C. L. Bobertson   .;  110
Mrs. S. Dickson       110
Begnum      110
Friend, per T. Ha\ le, Etq    110
F. A- Binney, Ei-q t      110
W W.           110
J. Swi. burt e. Eiq       110
J Gloria.at es Esq   10 0
Mrs. M. Gieg>ry     ;   1 o 0
Dr. Hayle '.      10 0
C. P. Carter, > cq       10 0
Mrs. Wictmau .;    10 0
A. R. WalWe, Lt-q.    c   1 0 0
J. C. Eno, 1 sq  1 0 0
c< 1. H. S. Oleott      10 0
Baronin V. Vay      0 18 4
C. Parsons, Esq.  0 10 6
C. O. G.       0 10 0
O. Reimers         0 10 0
d. s. v. mm      o«o
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Priimtiv
Christianity and Modem Spiritudlismt
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound In sloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
IT.—I evitaf’on and Conveyance by Spirit-power
III. —Ini-ensibilhy to Fire.
IV. —Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Claiwud'fnce
VI.—Dreams and Visions
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VIII.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—H- resits and Ooctentions.
X —Pr-yer.
, Xi —The Ministry of Angels.
X IT.—Death.
XITT,—The sp'rit World.
XIV.—Spiritualism and the Church.
XV.—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.— Conclusion
The above work has just be*n issued in America, and copies
are now on sale, price 10s 6d. each post free 11s. 6d., at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
rpHE RELIGIO-PHILOSOPHICAL
JL JOURNAL is a large eight-page weekly paper, an
able exponent of Modern Spiritualism. Established in 1865.
Now in its twentieth volume. Published every Saturday by
the Religio Philosophical Publishing House, Chicago, Illinois.
The regular price is 15s. per year, at which price thousands of
old subscribers welcome it each week as the best visitor they
have. Sample copy, 3d. Address, S. S. Jones, Editor, Chicago,
Ilk
The debatable land between this
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owhn.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
snbstantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. fid.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spirittialism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
J- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in th*
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their commuhica-
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden); The Countess of Caithness: the Duke of Leuchtenberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent;(Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Manyat); Mrs. Mak¬
dougail Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Bamster-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer. M.D. (Edni.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn: Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxonj: Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the " Life of Swedenborg ; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury: Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers: Mr. J..N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, 4 dots. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.”
[December, 1876.]
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty woids, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium tor advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usuallv torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
AH communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London : and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reaib the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wedi day
morning. All communications for the Literary Depar.ment should
be addressed to ihe Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papets unaccompanied by
a remittance. ‘'The Spiritualist ’will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt ol the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, K W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,"
EC. 
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Cp., at the
Holborn Printing W orks, Fullwood’s Rants, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London., and published by E. W. ALLEN, Are
Maria-laae, London, E.C,
