Registered as a Newspaper,
S>f!) J0US(]s[Sl< 0^ f’^YdSo^OG^lCS^
(DItef bit^ Spxntwalism xit (&xml ^rxfaxxx.
.THE “ SPIRITUALIST ” is regulariy on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : it, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The Internationa
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont,
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S. : g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 233.*—(VOL. X.—No. 6.) LONDON: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontentg.
Have We Two Memories?    ...    61'
The Emancipation of the Spirit. By Baboo Peary-Ohand
Mittra     ... 61
Spiritualism in East London  ... 63
Some of the Phenomena of Sleep and Dream. By, Edward
W. Cox, Serjeant-at-Law, President of the Psychologi¬
cal Society of Great Britain ' 64
The Reception of New Truths    65
The Slade and Galileo Persecutions. By Jane H. Douglas 65
Poetry:—“ Thy Love.” By Florence Marryat  66
The Last Slade Case    66
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Expression of
Opinion on the New Slade Prosecution 66
The National Conference of Spiritualists 66
Remarkable Spiritual Manifestations in Private Life. By
Charles Blackburn   67
Curious Psychological Experiments. By Emile, Prince of
Wittgenstein   \.  , ... 67
High Court of Justice:—Monck, Appellant, v. Hilton, Re¬
spondent—The Judgment on the Applicability of the
Vagrancy Act ... ...    ... ... 69
Legal Points in the Slade * Case. By Charles Carletoh
Massey     70
Correspondence: — The Prosecution of Mediums—Two
Questions—Mr. William Lawrence—More about Major
Blomberg—Help for Mrs. Lawrence—Art in Hospitals 70
Spiritualism at Home   71
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—The Phe¬
nomena of Sleep and Dream...      ... 72
Answers to Correspondents   72
Paragraphs:—An English Oracle Consulted, 65; The Law¬
rence Case, 65; A Fire Test Medium, 66; Spiritualism
in Chester, 66; Spirit Manifestation during the Con¬
quest of Mexico by Cortes, 71; Mr. Morse at New-
castle-on-Tyne 72
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
nHHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions ni its columns are Mr. 0. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;s,His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross -Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Bamster-at-Law; C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, 4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum 'monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and CirdUlar Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons* Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Offlce Hours from H till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.C.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
Agenda for February, 1877.
Friday, ind.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
„ Private Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 1th.—Soiree at 38, Great Russell Street, at
7 p.m. Music, Conversation and Refresh¬
ments. Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is.
Thursday, 8<A—Conference Meetings, at 3.30 and 8 p.m.
Friday, 9th.— „ „ at 3.30 and 8 p.m. •
Tuesday, IZth.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
. „ Council Meeting, at 6 30 p.m.
Friday, With.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
. „ Private Seance at 7.30 p.m.
Monday, 19th.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m.
Thursday, Tlnd.—Soiree Committee at 6 p.m.
„ House and Offices Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
„ . Seance Committee, at 7 p.m.
Monday, 26th.—Conference Committee, at 7 p.m.
SEANCES.
A new series of Free Circles for Inquirers, tickets for which
can be purchased by members at a nominal charge, will be
held weekly from Thursday, 15th inst. Another course of
Private Seances, for Members only, will commence on Tues¬
day, 20th inst., to be continued weekly. Tickets, 2s. 6d. each.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A GENERAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
WILL BE HELD IN LONDON, AT
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
On the 8th and 9th of February, 1877.
Papers will be read in the following’order:—
Thursday, at 3.30 p.m:.
The Scientific Aspects of Spiritualism. MR. T. P. Barkas.
Spirit Photography: a Refutation of Pseudo-Scientific
Theories. Mr. T. Shorter.
Thursday, at 8 p.m.
The Progress of Spiritualism, and the National and Local
Organisations of Spiritualists. Mr. R. Pearce.
Friday, at 3.30 p.m.
The Relation of the Law to Public Mediums.
Mr. W. H. Harrison.
The Identity of Communicating Spirits. Mr. G. F. Green.
Friday, at 8 p.m.
The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
Mrs. Louisa Lowe.
Experiences with Haunting Spirits. Mr. A. J. Smart.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
acts aflecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 P.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special stances with professional media, lectures, disous<
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
formation of circles and conduct oi seances,’' and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on appheation to the
honorary secretary; , -
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
"VTOTICE.—TO SPIRITUALIST FRIENDS
JLn ONLY.—Mr. W. Eglinton has arranged for another
Seance at Mrs. Olive’s residence, 15, Ainger-terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W., on Wednesday, February 14th, at 7 p.m.
Admission, 5s.
<AST END SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION,
j 15, St. Peter’s Road, Mile End, E.
THE FIRST QUARTERLY TEA MEETING
Will be held at the above Institution, on Sunday, February
4th. Tea at 5 p.m.; to be followed by a Conference on “ The
Present Position of Spiritualism,” to commence at 7 o’clock.
Tickets for tea, Is. each. Conference free. Several mediums
expected. Friends will oblige by applying for tickets before
the above date. E. W. Wallis, Manager.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY MEETINGS.
The next Fortnightly Meeting of the British National
Association of Spiritualists stands adjourned to Monday,
19th instant, at 8 p.m. Subject: Adjourned Discussion on
Dr. Carter Blake’s Paper, “Ancient Thought and Modern
Spiritualism.”
The meetings are free to Members and their friends.
E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W; WALLIS, Manager.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of. Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAYE: described by “
a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the book and newspaper trade; by E. W
Wallis, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E.
EAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &o., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch offlce. »
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE. —A com-,
plete set of this valuable work for sale, in 17 vols.-—
I860—76. Eleven vols. bound half calf, marble edges; the
remaining six unbound. Price -£6 6s. Address—S. B. Field,
13, Ampton-street, Gray’s-inn-road, W.C.
THE UPPER PART OF A HOUSE to be Let
FURNISHED for three months; consisting of kitchen,
two sitting, four bed, and one dressing rooms. Close to the
Museum. Good references required. Can be seen any day
after twelve o'clock. Apply—99, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury. If by letter to S. B.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 9, 1877,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Colder, Esq.,1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.,is), Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdouga!l,2l, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, TV.
Hitchman, 'William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Kogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D ..Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason. James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H.., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd/J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, SW.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendlnning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivipiey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park,N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs. E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
raaa, S E.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Tapp; G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. R. M.A., LL.M., Poste Restante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs.; 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols aMaranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosqphy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany."
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S A..
11. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes,Esq., 5,Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery.Esq., 2, Rue de Rocrol, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan,Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq,, 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 78, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers,
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Ncwlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. 0. Emery, Esq., St.
Maay-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid, Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad;Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office, i
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
npHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards 6f fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Mabshall & Co.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C.
MRS. OLIYE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. AH Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Haps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
MR. DE CAUX, Mesmeric Healer, and
Medical Galvinist, attends upon patients at their own
residence, or at his rooms—35, Alfred-street, Bedford-square,
London, W.C.
RS. KANE AT HOME Tuesdays, Thurs¬
days, and Saturdays from three to five o’clock.—34
Guildford-street, Russell-square, London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and.
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, maybe had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &c. Address, “Spiritualist,” 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts-
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the-
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal rafiways, and is in the-
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manages—Mrs. A. C. Burke
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS-
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
HIGH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin; Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. O. C. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. G. C. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Slade.—2jd., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.C. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
Spiritualism in the bible identi¬
cal WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E..C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociitd
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: TBe oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-plaoe, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., Ac. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Now Ready.—Fifty-seventh Year.
APHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC &
MESSENGER fob 1877. Post free Seven Stamps; or,
with Ephermis, Thirteen Stamps.
London: Catty and Dobson, 1, Ivy Lane, E.C.
jt xJ tub. xtf
Volujvie Tej<. Number $ix.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9th, 1877.
HAVE WE TWO MEMORIES?
In breach of promise cases the culprit would appear not
only to have two but several memories, which at his con¬
venience slide into each other like the images in a kaleido¬
scope, and are perplexing in the highest degree to the
plodding inquirer. But the question whether we have two
memories is now raised in these pages on deeper grounds
oven than the problem mooted by Mr. Serjeant Cox, whether
the two brains of human beings can act upon the conscious¬
ness independently of each other. By et consciousness” he
means u spirit,” but does not like to say so; indeed, in all
his literary labours he evades the latter word like the
<e elusive wild beast” immortalised by Professor Lank ester.
Of course we apply the term to Mr. Serjeant Cox in its re¬
spectful sense.
Last week an account was published in these pages of the
illness and subsequent deep trance of the Bev. William
Tennent, of New Brunswick, United States, who for three
days was believed to be dead by all but an intimate medical
friend of his own, who pleaded, in the face of the protesta¬
tions of the friends of the supposed deceased, against the
burial of the body. William Tennent recovered, but the
memory of his past life was gone. He could remember,
but state in no very definite worldly terms, the glories of
the heavenly spheres, but his preceding earthly existence
was a blank, and the recollection of it returned to him only
after the lapse of a whole year.
The freed spirit has regal powers like that of clairvoyance,
for instance, but the question we now raise is whether, when
the body dies, a portion of the memory of man dies with it.
Do not many of our present thoughts relate merely to earthly
■conditions, and do not they die with the earthly body ?
May not material facts fade from recollection in the higher
life, and only the spiritual principles deduced from them
remain ? If soft will serve to explain some of the impedi¬
ments which spirits have in proving their identity when
questioned about earthly things, apart from the difficulty of
giving it through the organism of a medium.
The experience of William Tennent points in this direc¬
tion ; for nearly a year his body was frail and weak, but
when it recovered full strength, back came the earthly
memory, as if it were something appertaining solely to the
tenement of clay.
An article by Baboo Peary Chand Mittra, published upon
this page, shows that a highly intelligent range of Hindoo
thought harmonises with the ideas here broached.
Swedenborg passed backwards and forwards between this
world and the next; he philosophised upon and recorded
what he saw, and perhaps has done more valuable psycho¬
logical work for the world than any man who ever lived.
There is, of course, plenty of error in his works ; he did not
know the full extent of the influence of the mind of the
medium upon the communications, because he stood alone
as an abnormal revelator in his day, and had not those
opportunities for comparison which we now possess. Despite
these errors, his writings are a rich mine of spiritual wealth.
He states that man has two memories, the one exterior and
the other interior; the one chained to evanescent material
things, the other related to the realities of the spirit. He
does not very clearly describe the difference between the
two memories, for while he gives plenty of information
about what is remembered in the other life, he does not
enter so fully into details about that which is forgotten.
He pictures a rational and just day of judgment, for he
asserts that spirits by their thought-reading powers see all
the past life of a spirit freshly born into their world,
and if any of the facts are denied, reproduce the forgotten
events to the delinquent in all the details, from his own
memory.
F, as thinkers begin to surmise, the material world is
but the result of mental conditions, and if, when the change
called a death ” comes over the spirit, the facts connected
with matter vanish like a tale that is told, how unwise it is
to live only in the love of external things, without appre¬
ciating the moral and spiritual teachings deducible there¬
from, thus losing that which is of the most permanent
value in connection with the study of the facts of the
material universe.
THE EMANCIPATION OF THE SPIRIT.*
BT BABOO PEAKY CHAND MITTRA.
Mesmerism was not unknown to the Aryans ; the art of
basikurum, or taking possession of one’s will, was practised
in early times. The Pracriti is the equipoise of three
qualities, goodness, passion, and darkness, which reach the
mind or the sentient soul, but not the soul itself, when it is
free from sensuousness. While Vedantism holds that the
soul is a spark from God and returns to it, the other schools,
while agreeing to its being a subjective reality, maintain
that the soul is manifold. All the schools, however, aim at
the emancipation of the soul from .bondage. This bondage
is Pracriti, according to Sankya and Avidya, or Maya ac¬
cording to Vedanta; but both are non-intettigent in contra¬
distinction to the soul which is intelligent. The hindrances
| to the emancipation of the soul are of three kinds, viz., 1.
| Proceeding from self; 2. From external causes; 3. Ftom
I the agency of superior beings or fortuitous causes. In
| reality the soul is not in bondage which applies to its organ
the mind, but when the bondage ceases, the soul’s natural
| freedom appears. To counteract the influence of these
| causes and evoke the evolution of the soul, both the Vedanta
j and Sankhya recommended devout contemplation which led
to the formation of the Yoge philosophy which Kapila
initiated, and Patunjal elaborated. He recommends that
i the best means for preventing the modifications or altered
; | states is exercise and dispassion, i.e., continued concentra-
' | tion and calmness which settle the mind into the soul. By
! | calmness is meant the abandonment of all desire, except for
n spiritual advancement. Concentration means meditation,
>| which is of two kinds, viz., with an object and without an
I object. The former has four stages, viz., argumentation,
| deliberation, beatitude and egotism, which denote progres-
| sive disengagement of thought from matter. The last stage
I is called egotistical, because it is more subjective. The
| meditation which is without an object is self-producing and
I independent of experience or observation without. Its scope
)j is infinite and merges in God, He being infinite in wisdom,
cj In the meditation with an object, there is a tinging of the
|| subjective and objective; and the knowledge so acquired is
)j argumentative or mixed object of thought. The meditation
(j without an object is non-argumentative, as it consists of
)j nothing but clear knowledge of the actual thing thought
) j upon. This theory is like Fichtes’ idealism, which identifies
(j the object with the subject. Sreemut Bhagbut (Book IV.)
| j' states that Dhruba’s contemplation ended in the annihila-
| tion of the distinction between the thinker and the object
(I thought upon, and thus enabled him to find in the blissful
j sheath the blissful God. During meditation without an
II object the soul is marked and active in its operations. It
j I imparts wisdom or pure knowledge, by which minute things
? | hidden or very far off are observed. The visual—the pheno-
11 menal—the mundane, are observed in the seer—the soul
! self-producing and self-knowing in calm repose without the
; I * Extracted from a pamphlet just published in Calcutta by Baboo Peary
t! Chand Mittra, member of the British National Association of Spiritualists.
62
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 9, 1877.
intervention of successive stages—in thorough subjectivity
and isolation. The stages of the disengagement of the soul
from matter are: 1. Samadhi or union between subject and
object; 2. Exercise of transcendental powers; 3. Caibalya
or isolation. The transcendental powers acquired by Yogis
have been exemplified by burying fakirs, vouched for by
English witnesses. It is also stated that Colonel Townsend
“ could die or expire when he pleased; yet by an effort or
somehow he could come to life again.” There appears to be
an affinity between Yogi and modern. Spiritualism, both
aiming at the u superior condition” or supersensuous state.
There are several stages in the Yog as in Spiritualism.
Pranayama approaches reverie or abstraction. Pratyahara
is the suspension of the senses, and leads to dharana or
state of abstraction from breath, mind, and natural wants,
and tranquillity from all sensual disturbances. It is the
somnambulistic state. The next state is dhyna or intense
contemplation, which is the clairvoyant state. Samadhi is
the last state which is £C the superior condition” or spiritual
state; in which state the Yogi is insensible to, and free
from all mundane and mental influence and intently occupied
without any efforts with ideas of the Great Soul. Dr. Car¬
penter* states that 11 this condition of self-induced suspen¬
sion of vital activity forms, as it were, the climax of a whole
series of states, with two of which I was myself very
familiar —£ Electro-biology ’ or artificial reverie, and
1 hypnotism ’ or artificial somnambulism — both of them
admirably studied by Mr. Braid, through whose kindness I
had many opportunities of investigating their phenomena.”
As long as the distinction between mind and soul, or the
sensuous and supersensuous soul was not understood, the
Aryans laid stress on the sacrifices, different kinds of
religious observances, self-mortifications, self-tortures, self-
immolations, but the close investigation of physiology re¬
sulted in the crystallisation of one thought—that in propor¬
tion as we succeeded in disengaging our souls from sensu¬
ousness, we had purer ideas of God and of our duties to
Him and to ourselves—that our real heaven was not a
heaven of locality, but a superior state in us, which was
susceptible of gradual expansion as the emancipation of our
soul progressed. The Rev. A. D. Griffith, in his essay in
the Bhagbut-gita,) says: “We are not to be suspected of
Hindu austerities; we simply state that the Yoge doctrine
is founded upon a deep acquaintance with the human con¬
stitution and its wants.” It appears that the ideas of the
Aryans were not confined to India. “ It is perfectly evident
to me,” said Socrates in his last moments, “ that to see
clearly we must detach ourselves from the body and perceive
by the soul alone, not whilst we live, but when we die, will
that wisdom, which we desire and love, be first revealed to
us ; it must be then or never that we shall attain to true
understanding and knowledge; since by means of the body we
never can. But if, during life, we would make the nearest ap¬
proaches possible to its possession, it must be by divorcing our¬
selves as much as in us lies from the flesh and its nature.”
Plato in the Phseda says, “ The soul reasons most effec¬
tually when none of the corporeal senses harass it; neither
hearing, sight, pain, nor pleasure of any kind, but it retires as
much as possible within itself and aims at the knowledge of
what is real, taking leave of the body; and, as far as it can,
abstaining from any union or participation with it.” Mos-
heim (vol. I., 398) says, that “ In order to the attain¬
ment of true felicity and communion with God, it was neces¬
sary that the soul should be separated from the body even
here below, and that the body was to be macerated and morti¬
fied for that purpose.”
In the Brihad Aronayia, Matraya asks her husband Yajn-
awalkya to instruct her in the knowledge by which final
beatitude may be attained. The learned husband says,
“ abstraction procures immortality and leads to the know¬
ledge of the Supreme God.” Another Vedic teaching is,
“ seek the knowledge by devout meditation.” The Sankhya
divides the whole world into soul and non-soul Pracriti, and
that we cannot know what soul is unless we become ourselves
soul, i.e., raise the natural to spiritual consciousness. Con¬
centration refers to the mind or sentient soul as it is a mere
matter of attention fixed upon a particular object, but abstrac-
* Contemporary Review for December, 1873.
m tion means the separation of the thinking from the sentient
; | (| soul; and, in proportion as this abstraction could be achieved,
IJj it lead to real superiority.
j)j It will appear from the foregoing pages that the Aryans
| | did not accept the knowledge as chief knowledge ov para
| | vidya derivable from empiricism. Ho writings revealed or
I )j sacred were allowed to be so authoritative and final as the
j(| teaching of the soul. Some of the Rishis appear to have
In laid the greatest stress on this supersensuous source of
t)| knowledge. In the Chhandagya Upanished, Narada is re-
i j ported to have gone to Sanat Kumara for instruction, and
I ! was asked tto state what he had learnt. Harada said, “I
1am instructed, venerable sage, in the Rig-Yeda, the Yajur-
ju Yeda, and Sama-Veda,'the Atharva (which is) the fourth, the
! ! Itithasas and Puranas (which are) the fifth Veda of the
nj Vedas, the rites of the Pitris, the art of reasoning, ethics,
j(j the science of the Gods, the knowledge of scripture demono-
i ] j. logy, the science of war, the knowledge of the stars, the
] j science of serpents and deities; this is what I have studied,
uj I, venerable man, know only the hymns {mantras), while I
II am ignorant of soul.” Sanat Kumara replied, “ that which
|(| thou hast studied is nothing but name.”
|j| It appears that Bacon in this study of the mind dived
j j deeper. He says, “the mind when abstracted or collected,
I | and not diffused in the organs of the body, has, from the
j | natural power of its own essence, some foreknowledge of
| (j future things; and this appears chiefly in sleep, ecstacies,
j Vi and the near approach of death.” The love of physicism and
if; empiricism has exercised some influence on the freedom of
| | thought and inquiry, and may have extended the domain of
|(j scepticism more than that of truth; still we find eminent
||| inquirers making admissions not quite in accordance with
I (| the general tenor of their writings. Tyndall {Fragments qf
! | Science) says, “ It was found that the mind of man has the
| | power of penetrating far beyond the boundaries of his free
|y| senses; that the things which are seen in the material world
m depend for their action upon things unseen ; in short, that
|;| besides the phenomena which address the senses, there are
||| laws and principles and processes which do not address the
| | senses at all, but which need be and can be spiritually dis-
I (i cerned.”
m The psychological teachings of the Aryans may be summed
;jj up as follows :—
| j Every human being has a soul which, while not separable
| (| from the brain and nerves, is mind or favatma, or sentient
|| soul; but when regenerated or spiritualised by Yoge. it is
||| free from bondage, and manifests the divine essence. It
| p rises above all phenomenal states—joy, sorrow, grief, fear,
\n hope; and, in fact, all states resulting in pain or pleasure,
||| and becomes blissful, realising immortality, infinitude and
lj| felicity of wisdom within itself. The sentient soul is ner-
| >! vous, sensational, emotional, phenomenal, and impressional.
| j It constitutes the natural life and is finite. The soul and
m the non-soul are thus the two land-marks. What is non-
| >| soul is Pracrit. It is not the lot of every one to know what
| (| the soul is; and therefore millions live and die possessing
H minds cultivated in intellect and feeling, but not raised to
| )| the soul state. In proportion as one’s soul is emancipated
| (| from Pracrit or sensuous bondage, in that proportion is
j.j| approximation to the soul state attained; and it is this
j which constitutes disparities in the intellectual, moral, and
j<| religious culture of human beings, and their consequent
i?| approximation to God.
}§ The Aryans did not aim at any creed, which must be
|(| more or less the product of the finite mind or sentient soul,
p It is true that creeds of different kinds were the outcomes of
IM different ages. But it will be found that they were called
§1 forth by the peculiar circumstances of the age, and pre-
|| sented by minds powerful in working upon the people.
I vj Whatever may be the merits of the creeds which succeeded
K] each other, the transcendental teaching of the Aryans as to
|>] the soul remains undisturbed. They held that, as long as
|s| we are impressional, the knowledge we acquire is more or
!$ less fallacious. In one of the prayers contained in the
|)| Vishnu Parana it is said—“Who, as internal intellect,
j'vj delivers the impressions received by the senses to soul.”
] j The light the Aryans aimed at was not from the senses
| I nor from the mind, but from within—the splendour of the
; ; soul—thus ignoring cerebration, empiricism, and agonostic-
Feb. 9, 1877,
63
THE SPIRITUALIST.
ism, and anticipating the teaching of the Bible—“ the king¬
dom of God is within you.”
The highest form of divine worship is, therefore, the ab¬
sorption of the brain-life in the soul-life, as this is the only
way to acquire true knowledge—the -para vidya—^Q highest
wisdom, and realise, in the infinite realm of the soul the
infinite God and the infinite progression of the disembodied
life.
„ spiritualism; in east London.
Last Sunday evening the usual quarterly meeting took place, at 15,
St. Peter’s-road, Mile End, London, in support of the services, seances,
and so on, regularly carried on there under the management of Mr. E.
W. Wallis. There was a very large attendance.
During the latter part of the evening a few general remarks were
made by various speakers, there being no special business.
Mr. Jennison said that for the past three or four years he had
attended the meetings in that building in order to listen to the teachings
given through the mediumship of the late Mr. Cogman, whose utter¬
ances were so full of sound common sense and reason that few who heard
them were disappointed. At the decease of Mr. Cogman he felt as if
he had lost a father. Mr. Cogman had had an intimation that he would
not last long, for he had told him several times that he should not see
the winter through. The Monday evening meetings at that place were
interesting, but more especially on the Wednesdays did they get won-
• derful manifestations. His experience taught him that those who
inquired into Spiritualism obtained that for which they made conditions ;
people who entered a spirit circle with lying and deceit in their hearts
usually obtained messages of the same kind, for into such an atmosphere
the brighter beings of the next world could not enter. He thought that
some of the mediums were being punished for using a God-given gift for
the gaining of money, not that they were conscious of doing any great
harm, but that directly they thought of Spiritualism in a financial sense
they involved themselves in trouble.
Mr. Charles Hunt remarked that Spiritualism was not given for
science to elaborate into a system, or to please curiosity-mongers, or for
mediums to make money by, but it was intended to bless and to elevate
mankind, and to prove that we have “ a house eternal in the heavens.”
Materialists were passing through this world without even the hope of a
future life; among them were men better than their creeds, and who
would be glad to be assured that there is no death when this mortality
is over; the special mission of Spiritualism was to such to prove to
them that man liveth for evermore. A friend of his—a kind-hearted
man and a father of a family—had detected a medium in imposture; it
ought to have been stopped by those to whom he revealed it, but it went
on as before. He thought that if anybody had a son, a brother, or a
daughter who practised deception, that it ought to be stopped; it should
be pointed out openly, but kindly and tenderly.
Miss Keeves passed into the trance state, and said:—If Spiritualism
be true, as we, from time to time, have affirmed, it is your duty to be
earnest and zealous in the cause—not to trifle with it; and depend
upon it, you will find it a pearl of great price, to fill you with joy and
happiness. We deny that it will teach you to be worse in morals ;
otherwise, it would but bring your own souls to perdition at the last.
There are many people who look upon the Bible as the Word of God;
but, when you take it to pieces, what do you find? You find many
books and small pamphlets, written, from time to time, by different
individuals, and in places quite contradictory. The world has accepted
all these, without separating the chaff from the wheat. There are
many grand truths in the writings, and many fallacies; there are things
in the book not fit to be placed in the hands of children; there are, also,
things which are good for humanity. I tell you, as one who has gone
before, to test everything, to select that which is just and true, and to
cast aside the false. If Spiritualism will not influence your lives for
good, and prove the immortality of the soul, and teach you of a kind
and loving Father drawing you onward and upward, it will prove of
little benefit. It should lead you to do your duty while in your body of
clay.
A hymn was then sung, after which Miss Keeves, still in the trance
state, said :—Paul stated that it was a disgrace for women to speak in
the church; but we in the higher world feel that we have equal rights
and equal laws; hence we come back, from time to time, with men, to
prove to humanity the immortality of the soul. Time was when the
freedom which you have to-day was denied you, and you think that,
perhaps, you owe your freedom to your public opinion; you forget that
we who lived in times past suffered the rack, the torture, and the flames
to establish the liberty you how enjoy. We look upon some of you who
call yourselves Spiritualists, and when we see you in the market-places,
and observe how much you hesitate to speak that which you know to
be true, we feel it our duty to let you know that if you want to have
freedom of action you must have freedom of speech. Had we, in past
times, been like you, you would not have possessed your freedom of
to-day. When the flames were about me I saw my loving mother and
the angelic hosts around. I passed from earth to their loving arms,
and felt that I had done my duty well. It is one thing to know truth,
and quite another thing to practise it; but, if you do not practise it, it
will rise up in judgment against you. Be steadfast, then; always
abounding in good works. Phenomenal Spiritualism should be dis¬
carded for the higher gifts; you should put away the toys which are but
food for children. Spiritual phenomena of the lower type are not of
! j j much use to those who have grasped the truth of the immortality of
I Si the soul.
11| Mr. William Wallace, medium, was not quite so sure that the remarks
| (j of one of the speakers about mediumship not being a marketable com-
jsj modity, were not open to question. If anybody would travel, as he had
!): done, among the Scotch and Welch mountains, they would find plenty
i(| of work there for paid mediums, and how could Spiritualism penetrate
| S | those regions in any other way ? A paid medium sometimes did not
|) I know where to lay his head, did not have boots to his feet, went supper-
K| less to bed, yet was blamed for receiving occasionally some small re-
|) | muneration. There was as much deception practised in society among
i) j unpaid mediums as among those who received remuneration; he thought
i (! that there was no difference between them. Wherever he had been,
Hi from the extreme south of England to the north of Scotland, the very
j) ; best people he had met were Spiritualists ; and while the truth was in
| (| the possession of such, he was sure it would never be uprooted. He
Hi bad seen the miners among the mountains glad to receive these palpable
|) | proofs of immortality, and had listened while they discussed at the pit’s
| (I mouth the phenomena witnessed at the seance of the night before. There
m was a great desire in the hearts of the people to know more about
i) | Spiritualism.
| (i Mr. E. W. Wallis expressed the opinion that the prosecutors at the
{ ! root of some recent cases, consisted of the mud lying at the bottom of
111 the pool of Spiritualism, and that the stirring up of this pollution made
i {| Spiritualists more active, made them work instead of idly singing time
|)| away as jolly as sandboys. He thought that no one seance should be
K j taken as a criterion of any other—that each should be judged upon its
m own merits, and those things only accepted which occurred under test
||) j conditions. He had known a real medium to act the part of a spirit,
(! but had every reason to suppose that it was done quite unconsciously.
(j Whatever faults there might be among mediums, there was quite as
)! much deception in the hearts of average sitters towards the spirits and
l! the mediums; indeed, he thought that there was more deception among
| j the sitters than among those on the other side.
Mr. W. Wallace thought that petitions should be prepared and for-
(I warded to both Houses of Parliament, asking the Legislature to stop
) i the persecution of mediums, and to tell Parliament that Spiritualists
I did not care to be taxed for the prosecution of their own friends. They
might also get up a list of people willing to be imprisoned to prove the
truth of Spiritualism, and send in this list to Pontius Pilate—(Laughter)—
| then see if the taxpayers were willing to stand the expenses incidental
! to such a step.
Miss Young, in the trance state, said that there was as much perse¬
cution of mediums in the home-circle as there was in public by the
I outside world. In ages past, in the days of their forefathers, persecution
for religious opinion was rife, but they should have such a spirit in their
I midst that if the “powers that be” burnt them at the stake for the
truth’s sake, they should be indifferent thereto. Although men might
j persecute them—
Never fear, be kind unto them ;
1 Feed the dark and blackened foe.
/1 Give them truth’s rich guerdon ever,
u For the dark and treacherous blow.
.(i Be ye earnest, ever working
(j : For the truth and for the right;
(! God will make thee ever fairer—
) | Make thy spirit ever bright.
) I Much more spirit poetry was given through the mediumship of Miss
)! Keeves and Miss Young.
{| Mr. Tilby thought that phenomenal Spiritualism was useful, and that
) | when it was further developed it might enable their departed friends to
c i speak to them face to face in materialised form, instead of through the
\ | lips of a medium. This was a result to be desired.
Mr. Galloway remarked that every great truth had to pass through the
(| baptism of persecution, and Spiritualism being true, it followed that it
)! must pass through the same process. He almost believed that the
) I recent persecutions were organised in the spirit-world, in order to bring
(! out a brighter state of being in the experience of Spiritualists. Messrs.
{| Lankester and Donkin never saw Dr. Slade do anything, and in any
) | other case, if witnesses could not swear they saw the man do the deed
11 the charge would drop, and the prosecution at law would fail. Infer-
\ | ences drawn from twitching motions were not to the point, since those
) | twitchings might arise from various causes.
(j Mr. Croucher thought that the recent prosecutions had done good to
(I Spiritualism, since they set people talking about it everywhere, and gave
) j those who were informed on the subject an opportunity of communi-
(| eating their knowledge. A clergyman pitied his belief in Spiritualism,
(j and said to him, “What is your hope of heaven now ?” to which he
)j replied, “I have no hope, it is all certainty; consequently both faith
<| and hope have been blown to the winds long ago.” (Laughter.) He
11 thought that the spirits who produced the physical manifestations were
1 i of a low order, and gradually degraded their mediums. Before sitting
[ | down, he would repeat a few lines which had been given through his
11 own mediumship:
The man who dares to think, to live,
i True to his soul’s divinest light,
I Shall to the world an impulse give
| For truth and right.
The brave in heart, the pure in mind,
| Will dare to see the truth aright,
While coward souls, perverse and blind,
Will shun the light.
j But though all eyes on earth were closed,
Still would the sun as brightly shine,
And truth, by all the. world opposed,
1 Is still divine.
64
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 9, 1877.
That which men abuse to-day,
Men of the future will adore,
And truth, which error seeks to slay,
Lives evermore.
The Cross may meet his noblest deeds,
The faggot blaze at every word,
Yet through the angry strife, of creeds
He will be heard.
Thus through the fire, and through the flood,
All bruised, and scarred, and battle-worn,
Baptised in tears, and sweat, and blood,
Great souls are born.
Great souls will set their standard high,
And, toiling on through storm and night.
They wake the nations with their cry
For light! More light!
Mr. E. W. Wallis thought that the spirits who produced physical
manifestations were not always of a low order, but that they exhausted
the vitality of the mediutn so much, that in his weakened state after¬
wards he was less able to resist temptation.
Mr. W. H. Harrison remarked that mediums were quite as much
entitled to be clothed and fed—that is to say, fairly remunerated for
their work—as any other persons. He had never known anybody who
spoke against paid mediums to do anything financially to save the said
mediums from starvation. Mr. Cromwell Yarley first brought him into
Spiritualism, by showing him manifestations which took place in his
own family; but he could not expect Mr. Varley’s family to sit for him
continually, consequently he at that time felt it to be one of the greatest
of boons to be able to pay Mrs. Mary Marshall for her time and powers,
and to see manifestations without being under a special obligation to
anybody. He investigated at Mrs. Marshall’s secmces under the con¬
viction that, if the facts were true, money was of no consideration what¬
ever in obtaining proof palpable of immortality, and to this day he felt
grateful to Mrs. Marshall for having been a paid medium.
The proceedings then closed.
SOME OF THE PHENOMENA OF SLEEP AND D.REAM.*
BY EDWARD W. COX, SERJEANT-AT-LAW, PRESIDENT OF THE PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
0 sleep! 0 gentle sleep !
Nature’s soft nurse, how have I frighted thee
That thou no more wilt weigh my eyelids down
And steep my senses in forgetfulness ?
Why rather, Sleep, liest thou in smoky cribs.
Upon uneasy pallets stretching thee,
Than in the perfumed chambers of the great
Under the canopies of costly state
And lulled with sounds of sweetest melody ?
0 thou dull god! Why liest thou with the vile.
In loathsome beds, and leavest the kingly couch
A watch .case or a common ’larum bell.
Wilt thou upon the high and giddy mast
Seal up the shipboy’s eyes and rock his brains
In cradle of the rude imperious surge,
And in the visitation of the winds
Who take the ruffian billows by the top,
Curling their monstrous heads and hanging them
With deafening clamours in the slippery clouds.
That with the hurly Death itself awakes ?
Canst thou, 0 partial Sleep, give thy repose
To the wet sea-boy in an hour so rude,
And, in the calmest and most stilly night.
With all appliances and means to boot,
Deny it to a king ?
What is this coveted sleep that least comes when it is most courted ?
Viewed physiologically, it is a collapse of the fibres of the brain,
either caused by or causing (as yet we know not which) the expulsion
of a portion of the blood from the capillaries with which the brain is
everywhere interlaced.
The whole brain rarely sleeps at the same time. Some parts of it,
by reason of insufficient depletion of blood corpuscles, remain suffi¬
ciently excited to maintain more or less of action. Whatever it be that
in our waking state sets up motion in the fibres of the brain, and so
gives to the Conscious Self the impressions we call emotions and ideas,
that motive force continues to excite the same action in sleep, and
according to the more or less of power so exercised is probably the
vividness of the dream which it suggests.
But we have two brains, each having the same organs, competent to
act together or separately: when they work properly together, producing
the most perfect mental action; when working separately, or one work¬
ing alone, producing imperfect mental action, as may be seen in hemi¬
plegia, which is an affection of one of the brains only, and hence the
impairment of one side only of the body.
Obviously in the condition of perfect sleep by the entire mental
machinery of the brain there could be no dream. Such condition is
rare. But it has occurred probably within the memory of all around
me, as after long absence of sleep or great fatigue. Then the whole
brain sleeps, or seems to sleep, and the Self has no consciousness of
any impressions being received from the brain. In such a sleep, even
though of many hours’ duration, the mind has no consciousness of time,
and the moment of waking seems to have followed immediately upon
the moment of falling asleep. There is no dream—or, at least, there is
no consciousness of dream.
The physiology of dream, then, is a partial slumber of the brain.
* An abridgment of a paper read before the Psychological Society
last week.
j i Some parts of it only are sleeping, other parts are more or less wakeful,
!® that is to say, more or less in action, and brain action means the per-
|)\ formance of the function of conveying impressions to the Conscious Self
jyi and receiving impressions from it.
|/| We pass instantly from the waking state into sleep. We cannot,, by
Kl any effort, note the precise moment when the change takes place. But
iyi although a moment only, what a change is wrought! Think what it is.
ill At this instant we are masters of our minds—we are conscious of
! 11 external existence—we have the power of the will, and the mechanism
jyj of mind and body is obedient to command; our thoughts are orderly,
!)! we are rational beings. In a second of time all these conditions are
j (j changed. We no longer command our minds—we are unconscious of
!) | the external world—the will ceases to control the mechanism either of
j)j the mind or of the body; ideas come without call, usually in most
yl admired disorder; we discover neither incongruity nor impossibility in
|) | them; we believe implicitly thoughts to be things, and mental imagina-
j); tions to be external realities. We have ceased to be rational beings,
jyj We are in very truth insane.
n j If this marvellous change were unfamiliar to us, with what wonder
j/j and awe it would be received, and with what eagerness would gcience
jyj devote itself to its examination, as being certain to reveal much of the
I j mystery of the mechanism of man and the relationship of mind and
|m matter.,
|| But hitherto, because it happens to all of us daily, it has been almost
j j j a neglected source of psychological knowledge. The exploration of this
j y j great field for investigation is a work within the proper province of the
|| Psychological Society, and in which it may do great services to the
If| science of mind and soul.
jyj But in sleep the self has ceased to control the body. That force
jyj (whatever it be) is suspended which in waking life enables us to distin-
j) j guish between ideas and objects—between dreams and realities. What
lyj is this force that has thus suddenly ceased, and by its ceasing has
;y! changed the whole character of our intelligent being ? Why cannot we
|)| at this moment distinguish the shadow from the substance, the false
jy from the true, the impossible from the possible, as we did but one
|yj moment ago ?
|f | What a curious problem is here presented to us. Although this
|yj wonderful fact has actually happened to every person in this room
ifj every day of his life, how many among you has ever reflected upon its
|f| marvellousness, or asked himself how such a miracle is caused ?
jy i So far as investigation has yet gone, we can trace but two distinct
j y j differences in the waking and the sleeping states. In sleep, the power
P of the will is suspended. It has ceased to control either mental or
jy| bodily action, and the brain is left to its own undirected energies, In
jyj dream some of the mental faculties are awake while others are asleep,
jf j and hence it is that they are unable to exercise over each other that
jyj: mutual check and correction, the common action of which in a healthy
jy! structure constitutes that complex whole, made up of many parts, to
jy I which is given the collective title of mind.
jy| The senses are said to be locked up in sleep; but they are not so
jf:| entirely. Some of them convey sensations imperfectly. Sounds are
jy! audible, touch is felt, the senses of smell and taste are not extinguished,
jyj Sight alone is wholly suspended. But we have lost the power of
jf| measuring the impressions made upon these slumbering senses. A
j y | slight sound often seems to the sleeper, whether it wakes him or only
lyj suggests a dream, as if it was the report of a cannon. A loud sound
I! will as often seem to him as nothing more than a whisper. This fact,
j familiar to all of us, proves that the senses are not the rectifiers of the
I mental actions, as some psychologists have suggested. Hence it may
be inferred that the principal agent in the direction of the human
j mechanism during waking life is not the senses, for they are only
partially suspended in sleep—nor the brain, for that is running riot
in all the impossibilities and incongruities of dreams—but something
I which is neither the senses nor the brain, which is independent of
!) j either, and whose control alike of mind and body is suspended in the
I! condition of sleep. The immediate agent of this something is the will.
But the will is not an entity ; it is only the expression of some entity,
j The will is only the force which some entity directs to some in-
j telligent object.
I What, then, is the rational and scientific conclusion from these
j facts 1 Is it not that, if there be such an entity, that is neither brain
j y I nor body, but sometimes controls both and sometimes is severed from
I both, a reasonable presumption arises that this entity is the conscious
j self, a thing distinct from the brain and the body, from which it is
j then severed more or less. The proposition is plain and simple.
There is a something which is conscious of what the brain is doing in
I the wild work of dream ; this something is that we recognise as the
I conscious self, the I—the you—the individual being, of which the
I sleeping structure is only the machine by means of which that being—
I call it that soul if you please—maintains its communication with the
j material world in which the present stage of its existence is to be
jyj passed.
I I I hope I am not illogical or unscientific in advancing this as another
jy ! proof of the being of a non-molecular entity as a part of the mechanism
of man in opposition to the debasing doctrine of materialism.
The subject is very large and cannot be treated in two papers, or
within the limits of our ordinary discourses, and therefore I must
return to it hereafter. But I purpose now to set before you some
suggestions as to the effect upon dream of the action of the double
brain.
The business of the two brains, like that of the two eyes, is to
correct each otheri With one eye we see little more than a flat
surface. The mental action of the two eyes enables us to perceive
objects as we see what is really a flat surface in the spectroscope,
but which, so seen, is presented in its proper proportions and true
perspective. So it is with the two brains. Each supplements the
other, and the various mental faculties are thus made to co-
operate. To take an instance or two. The mental faculty of com¬
parison can only work by having before it the two ideas that are to
be compared. But each brain can entertain but one idea at the
same instant of time. The two brains supply the two ideas, and thus
enable the work of comparing to be done. Now, comparison is the
foundation of the process of reasoning, which is not one mental act, as
is commonly believed, but a combination of mental actions. We
reason by comparing two or more ideas and noting their differences
and resemblances; then we compare them with a third idea in *iike
manner, and see how they resemble or differ; and then we reason
upon the result of this comparison, and say, “ in such a particular A.
resembles B., and, in the same particular, C. resembles B.; therefore,
in this particular, A. and C. are alike or unlike.” Starting from this
simple act of comparison and deduction, we proceed step by step from
what is thus known to learn the unknown. Hence it is that, as one
brain alone cannot do the work of comparison, so one brain cannot
reason, and, in fact, we find that in severe cases of hemiplegia, affecting
the whole or the greater part of one brain, or in cases of the destruc¬
tion of one brain by disease or accident, the patient is unable to
compare ideas, and has consequently lost the power of correct
reasoning, although the other mental faculties that do not require
double action, and especially the emotions, continue in vigour, the one
sound brain sufficing to do the work for them.
Apply this state of things to sleep and dream, and what phenomena
should we look for ? If one brain be sleeping while the other is awake,
we should thus be in the exact position of a person one of whose brains
had been paralysed, that is to say, we should have lost the power of
comparison of ideas, and, therefore, of reasoning upon them.
Is not this precisely the condition of dream ? The self-produced
ideas that then throng the mind are accepted by us as being not self-
produced but as being brought to us by the senses. Why do we
accept them implicitly as realities ? Because we are accustomed to rely
upon our senses and are compelled to accept their intelligence as
actualities. In waking life we try such impressions by comparison and
reasoning, and we thus discover if they are actual or ideal, possible or
impossible. But when we dream it is as if one brain had been para¬
lysed, although it is only sleep; and as the necessary consequence we
are unable to compare those ideas, and, therefore, we are unable to
reason upon them and try their true value, as we are accustomed to do
in waking life. Hence in dream our implicit belief that the shadows
of the mind’s creations are substances, and ideas realities; hence iu
dream we have no sense of incongruity and no consciousness of the
impossible. We believe implicitly that the self-produced pictures pre¬
sented by the brain are brought by the senses from without, and then
the other mental faculties deal with them as if they were realities—
that is to say, they weave them into narratives, treat them as events,
and cause them to create the appropriate emotions—whether sentiments
or passions. It is also to be noted that, unlike ideas which are imag¬
inary, the passions and emotions are really felt in dream, not imagined
to be felt; another proof that all those mental faculties are not sleeping.
THE RECEPTION OF NEW TRUTHS.
What the public wish to know is not whether Dr. Slade, Monck, or
Lawrence be tricksters, but whether there be or be not any reality in the
phenomena. The public and the public press, without a single excep¬
tion, at once say, not merely that Slade is an impostor, but that the
existence of disembodied spirits is contrary to all known scientific
teaching. Now, we do not say that the phenomena are or are not real,
but when we find eminent men like Mr. Serjeant Cox, a man who
knows human nature, who fills the office of judge at the Middlesex
Sessions; an eminent zoologist like Wallace, president of the Biological
Section of the British Association; an almost matchless electrician of
the type of Varley; and Crookes, who has brought to light the atomic
equivalent of thallium, and has invented the radiometer, one of the
most mysterious discoveries of the science of obscure forces—when
these and many others distinguished in their way tell us openly that
they have witnessed phenomena which cannot be accounted for on any
hypothesis but that of unseen and intelligent agency, it is idle for us,
being ignorant of the investigation, to say anything definitely on the
subject. We know that when Franklin caught the lightning by the
flying of a kite, it was said to be most ridiculous to exercise a great
mind in such absurd matters, for, said one of his tormentors, “ What
good is it, if true T Electricity has shown what good it contained by
the marvellous work of telegraphy, which is fast proving itself to be
the greatest discovery of the age. When George Stephenson also had
worked out his invention for running a steam-engine and carriages filled
with people along metals at the rate of seven miles an hour he was
deemed to be a candidate for a lunatic asylum; when the discovery as
to the circulation of the blood was made, it was said to be impossible,
as it was contrary to all common sense and science for a liquid to run
upwards; when Galileo made known his discovery as to the movement
of the earth round the sun instead of the reverse, as the world had
thought, he was said to be a lunatic. With these facts staring us in the
face, it is absurd to say anything unproved is ridiculous just because it
is opposed to our previous teaching.—The Nottingham Journal, Feb. 1st.
Opfobtunities are not given by the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists for new trance mediums to display their powers in public.
Interesting meetings to the advantage of all concerned might be spent
by inviting Miss Young, Miss Keeves, and others to give short addresses
to members and friends, that the quality of their utterances may be
considered. Remarkable poems are sometimes given extemporaneously
through the mediumship of these ladies.
It is sneeringly asked—Where is the talked-of parallel
between Galileo and Dr. Slade ? What discovery does the
latter pretend to have made ? The parallel is, indeed, not
complete, consisting merely in this, that while Galileo was
prosecuted for heresy for having announced a new truth
obnoxious to the Church, Slade is prosecuted for fraud
because phenomena pointing to new truth obnoxious to
received opinions take place through him. It is the tele¬
scope of Galileo that Slade really resembles, he being not
less an instrument divinely formed for physiological and
psychical discovery, than is the telescope an instrument of
human invention for astronomical discovery; and, just as
atmospherical conditions sometimes obstruct the power of
the telescope, so conditions yet unknown at times obstruct
the power acting through Slade.
Very similar also is the attitude towards him of the
majority of men of science to that towards the telescope
of Galileo of those astronomers who disdained to look
through it, deriding accounts of the moons of Jupiter, of
the stars, of the Milky Way, of the movements of the
heavenly bodies, of all the wonders the instrument revealed.
What a mistake to suppose, as some do, that the dis¬
belief of the scientific in the phenomena of the invisible
world is partly feigned; that their hostility towards Slade
and his compeers is in great measure the result of dread
lest facts militating against their materialistic views should
turn out to be undeniably true. The sceptics of science
are evidently only too thoroughly sincere in their dis¬
belief—a disbelief due to a reaction, some two centuries
ago, against the opposite extreme, and through which the
human mind received a bent which it retains despite
evidence of its erroneousness. “ It must, I think,” says
Mr. Lecky, “ be admitted that these alleged miracles are
commonly rejected with an assurance that is as peremptory
and unreasoning as that with which they would have been
once received ; they are repudiated, not because they are
unsupported, but because they are miraculous.” “ They are,”
again he says, u disbelieved in, not because the testimony
is insufficient (for he admits that it is more than sufficient),
but because belief in them is opposed to modern habits of
thought.” One wonders it does not strike these sceptical
minds that a habit of thought opposed to the reception of
alleged facts attested in the present day and in all ages by
trustworthy witnesses, looks very like a bad habit of
thought—like one of those frames of mind against which
Bacon warns the pursuer of truth.
81, South Audley-street, London.
The Rev. John Tyerman, who has worked so actively in the cause
of Spiritualism in Australia, writes that he will shortly leave that
colony for the United States and England.
An English Oracle Consulted.—Lizzie Kellogg, of Fairmont,
Nebraska, writes to the Meligio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago) of
January 20th :—“One day, four years ago, in the Sedalia Tmes office,
Missouri, there were three persons, who heard my voice between the
hours of twelve (noon) and one, and looked everywhere about the
printing-office for me, being certain that I was hid. When I did come
in,^they inquired where I had been, as I had talked, and they could not
see me. I told them that what they had heard, came in my mind
when I was crossing the Missouri Pacific track—some suggestions that
I would make when I arrived at the office, in regard to some work.
‘Well, ’ they said, ‘that was what I had been talking about.’ Now
what was it 1 It was I that spoke ; they knew my voice, and all three
heard me, when I was two squares away. Perhaps Prof. Lankester
could throw some light on the subject.”
The Lawrence Case.—Mr. Barnard Thomas, agent to the Treasury,
attended last Friday at Westminster Police-court to see the bad
perfected for the release of William Lawrence, the East-end alleged
medium, he having sued out a writ of error in the Queen’s Bench
Division against his conviction and sentence at the late Middlesex
Sessions. The parties had appeared before the court before, but at
that time one of the bail had “refused ” on account of the amount
(two in £250 each, and prisoner in £500), and the recognisance of the
prisoner having been taken he was remitted to prison pending the
completion of the securities. Since that Mr. Justice Hawkins had
reduced the bail to one in £250 and one in £100, and forty-eight hours’
notice had bedn given to the Treasury. The bail now accepted and
duly examined were:—For £250, Mr. W. Henry Sturt, of the Old
Kent-road, manufacturing chemist ; and for £100, Mr. Geo. Chambers,
Keeton’s-road, Bermondsey, mast maker. The order for the prisoner’s
release was accordingly given.
Feb. 9, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
65
THE SLADE AND GALILEO PERSECUTIONS.
BY JANE H. DOUGLAS.
66
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Feb. 9, 1877.
“THY LOVE.”
BT FLORENCE MARRYAT.
0 thy love is to me as the salt, salt breath
That blows over the foam-fleck’d sea,
And it blows and it breathes for me,
Till, if I stood under the Shadow of Death,
The sound of thy voice, and the sense of thy breath,
Would recall me to life and. thee.
O thy love is to me as the red, red wine,
New-pressed from the grape’s richest store,
And I quaff of it more and more,
My heart and my soul are commingled with thine,
Till I tremble to drain the last drop of the wine
That is hid in thy heart’s deep core.
O thy love is to me as a sweet, sweet song
That makes music by night and day,
And my love is its answ’ring lay;
The notes are melodious, even and strong,
And they ring in my ears like a heavenly song.
That shall sound in my heart for aye.
O thy love is to me as a free, free bird
That I long to ensnare and to hold,
Till both captor and captive grow old,
To fly with it far from the eye of the herd
Who strive to tear from my bosom my bird,
And leave my heart empty and cold.
O thy love is to me as a new, new life
Poured into my languishing veins,
And it chases my cares and pains
Till I rise up again, with fresh energy rife,
To thank Heav’n that ’midst all the turmoil of life,
The joy of thy love still remains.
The usual monthly meeting of the Council of the National Association
of Spiritualists will be held next Tuesday.
A Fire Test Medium.—Quite a number of Spiritualists and a good
many sceptics gathered at Liberty Hall to witness the operations of
Mrs. Suydam, of Chicago, the fire test medium. The medium, who is
a large, fully developed woman, of perhaps thirty-five, washed her face
and hands in cold water, and then took a heated lamp chimney in her
hands and pressed it caressingly to her cheek, then she held her hands
in the full flame of the lamp, put a burning match dipped in alcohol in
her mouth, and finally washed her hands and arms in burning alcohol,
which was blazing in a saucer. After about three minutes her sleeve
took fire from the alcohol, and the medium ceased rather abruptly.
She claims to commonly keep her hands in the fire about fifteen
minutes. After the fiery bath her hands, arms, and face were entirely
free from blisters or any other marks of fire. She professes to be the
medium of the spirit of a little Indian girl who was frozen to death and
who was trying to get warm. The power to resist heat is claimed
to be the result of a spiritual preparation applied in the trance by the
spirit of an ancient chemist, who appears to be possessed of one of the
lost arts. A Spiritualist who has seen the preparation with the eye of
faith, describes it as a cloudy substance, one thirty-second of an inch
in thicknels, which completely covers the face, hands and arms during
the trance, and which certainly render them ice cold while in the fire.
The fire test has never before been given in New England, and there
are but three Spiritualists in the world who can do it, Mrs. Suydam ;
Home, the famous English medium ; and one Dr. Dunn.—Springfield
{Mass.) Republican.
Spiritualism in Chester.—A meeting of the Chester Mutual
Improvement Society was held on Tuesday evening, the 30th ult.,
in the Lecture-room, Free Library, St. John-street, commencing at
twenty minutes to eight, the question for debate being “ Modern
Spiritualism. Are there any genuine manifestations ? ” Mr. Taylor,
of Louise-street, who opened the debate, remarked that the question
was one against which a strong prejudice existed, even in the minds
of the most sensible men. He attributed this circumstance, however,
to the fact that the question.was really but little understood, and that
many people are naturally inclined to ridicule that which they cannot
understand. It was a circumstance, also, which was not much to be
wondered at, as it had been the fate of all new theories or inventions,
either in philosophy or science, to be ridiculed and sneered at by the
professors of learning, until their truth had been finally demonstrated.
It was a well-known fact that in all systems of religion, Spiritualism
and spiritual , manifestations occupied a very prominent place. There
were the prophesies and miracles of the Bible, the visions of Mohammed,
and his mysterious journey into heaven, the deities of Buddhism—
indeed, he might say that all religions were impregnated with Spirit¬
ualism. The essayist then want on to speak of the spiritual manifes¬
tations of a somewhat more recent date, and referred to Ignatius
Loyola, Luther, Calvin, George Fox, Oberlin, Swedenborg, and John
Wesley, from whose journal he made extensive quotations in support
of his assertions. A vigorous debate was then commenced, in which
Messrs. Edwards, Geo. Steele, and other gentlemen took part, at the
close Mr. Abraham moved an adjournment, which was agreed to
unanimously.— Cheshire Observer,
| | THE LAST SLADE CASE.
I | We have been informed that the omission of the words
|| “by palmistry or otherwise” in the indictment of Dr. Slade
| | at the Quarter Sessions, which omission caused the quashing
| | of the conviction, was the result of a conference between the
[ I Attorney-General, Mr. Staveley Hill, and Mr. Cooper. It
| | is said that the Attorney-General and Mr. Hill had the
| I words “by palmistry or otherwise” struct out, to which
I | action Mr. Cooper dissented.
I | An article in the Examiner—a journal which appears to
| I be the official organ, in the Slade case, of Messrs. Lankester
I | and Donkin—censures the Crown lawyers without stint, and
| | says that although Mr. Flowers drew up the conviction with
| | the words “by palmistry or otherwise” in it, they sent it
| | back to him, with the words struck out, for him to sign in
I I its new form.
| | Dr. Slade is now in Boulogne, very ill. Mr. Munton, his
| | solicitor, has been to see him ; he has also been visited by
| | the American Consul and by Mr. Henry G. Atkinson. Mr.
| | Simmons is with him, and in a letter which we received last
i | Wednesday says that Dr. Slade wishes to return thanks for
||| all the kindness he has received at the hands of English
| | Spiritualists, and to acknowledge the many friendly letters
| | of congratulation he has received since his discharge.
| | The social, legal, and scientific aspects of the Slade case
i | will no doubt be fully considered hereafter. It furnishes a
III startling example of the dangers to which British subjects
| I are exposed if two persons bring forward certain inferences as
| | to wfiat took place on a particular occasion, whilst scores of
| l equally good witnesses can depose to positive facts altogether
j at variance with those inferences, but which were witnessed
| | on other occasions. It also raises the question whether, in
| the eyeof the law, the phenomena of nature should be sup-
II posed to cease, with the limit of the knowledge of such
| I phenomena possessed by those who administer justice.
! j THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
11! | EXPRESSION OF OPINION ON THE NEW SLADE PROSECUTION.
(j On Wednesday, last week, at a special meeting of the Council of the
j British National Association of Spiritualists, held at 38, Great Russell-
! street, London, Mr. Alexander Calder, president, occupied the chair,
j The other members present were Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, M.R.I.;
j Mr. M. J. Walhouse, F.R.A.S.; Dr. George Wyld; Mrs. Makdougall
i Gregory; Mrs. Wiseman; Mr. Morell Theobald; Mr. Desmond Fitz-
IJ Gerald, M.S. Tel. E.; Mr. Algernon Joy, M.Tnst. C.E.; Mrs. Malt by ;
i Mrs. D. Fitz-Gerald; Mr. C. C. Massey, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. H. T.
i Humphreys, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-
| at-Law; Mr. Dawson Rogers; Mr. E. Parkinson Ashton; and Mr.
i Mawson.
| It was moved by Mr. C. C. Massey, seconded by Mr. W. B. Mawson,
i and passed unanimously:—“ That the Council, having had its attention
(| called to the fresh proceedings against Dr. Slade for a matter already
| disposed of by course of law, and at a moment when he is suffering
j severely in health from the effects of past persecution, records its disgust
I and indignation at this cruel attack, and its deep sympathy with Dr.
| Slade.”
! Moved by Mr. Morell Theobald, seconded by Mr. Ashton, and passed
ji unanimously:—“That the new charge against Mr. Simmons of con-
11 spiracy, founded upon no additional evidence save that afforded by his
11 voluntary statement in the witness-box respecting his business relation
(| with Dr. Slade, is unjust, unprecedented, and distinctly indicative of
| i oppressive disposition on the part of the prosecution.’’
THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS.
This annual Conference is now sitting at 38, Great Russell-street,
London, and a full report will be given in these pages next week. To¬
day, at 3.30 p.m., the proceedings will commence with the reading of a
paper on “ The Relation of the Law to Public Mediums,” by Mr. W.
H. Harrison, followed by another upon “ The Identity of the Com¬
municating Spirits,” by Mr. G. F. Green. The proceedings in the
evening will commence at eight o’clock with the reading of a paper on
the “Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism,” by Mrs. Louisa
Lowe, concluding with a paper on “ Experiences with Haunting Spirits,”
by Mr. A. J. Smart. All Spiritualists are invited to attend.
The next fortnightly meeting of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists is adjourned to Monday, 19th inst., when the discussion on
“ Ancient Thought and Modern Spiritualism ” will be continued.
Copies, handsomely printed on cartridge paper, of the Memorial
addressed by the National Association of Spiritualists to the Secretary
of State, against the Government prosecution of Dr. Slade, can be pur¬
chased at 38, Great Russell-street, and should be framed and preserved
by all Spiritualistic societies.
Feb. 9, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
67
REMARKABLE SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS IN PRIVATE
LIFE.
BY CHARLES BLACKBURN.
On Friday, the 2nd February, I took a friend, Signor
E. Rondi, an artist, of 22, Montague-place, Bloomsbury, to
witness, in a private family, manifestations through a new
medium, only four months in progress, and under my
guidance. It was a dark circle, where the mother and two
children, a friend who reports to me the weekly seances,
the medium (a young lady of eighteen), myself, and the
above-named artist were the only persons present.
The medium, who was placed' on my left hand, sat be¬
tween myself and Signor Rondi, with her back to the piano,
which was, say, half-a-yard off; her mamma sat directly
opposite, whilst the others filled up the vacancies round a
circular mahogany table four feet in diameter, upon which
were placed various toys, the fairy bells, a solid iron ring,
several rolls of paper, and so on. We all joined hands,
therefore the medium could not move without detection; she
did not go into a trance, but enjoyed the seance equally with
ourselves. After locking the door, putting the gas out, and
singing for a quarter of an hour, the disturbances began.
The paper tubes freely hit us, hands of various sizes were
felt on our heads and faces, the Oxford chimes rose from
the table and played near the ceiling, and the piano, im¬
mediately behind the medium, was played upon by two
hands (for both bass and treble in chords were sounded
at the same time). I suddenly stopped the music and asked
the guiding spirit, u Lillie || (who invisibly attends the
medium and directs other spirits who do the work), if she
would bring down the chimes from aloft on to the table and
cause a spirit hand to take hold of my right hand and make
my fingers play on the wires. This was instantly complied
with. I then asked that Signor Rondi might do the same,
and it was also done by the guidance of a hand a little
warm, and with fingers and nails as plainly felt as my own.
Then the medium asked the spirit “Lillie” if she would
fetch a purse left in the bedroom up stairs; this was
brought and dropped on the table in two minutes, although
the doors were locked. I next asked to have the four-and-
a-half-inch diameter iron ring threaded on my arm whilst
I held the medium’s hand. “ Lillie ” replied: “ Yes; if
you will take hold of the medium’s left hand with your
right.” I changed places, and put my right hand upon her
left shoulder, then passing my hand carefully down her arm,
I took hold of her hand. I had the ring in my left hand
at that moment; I laid it on the table and took hold of the
next sitter; all was silent, but in two or three minutes’
time we heard the solid ring moving on the table, and,
instantly, it came on my right arm a little above the wrist.
I felt no blow whatever; only a sensation of something
dangling and heavy. A light was struck, and there it wais,
though I had never ceased to grasp the medium’s left hand
for one second. I then asked (after extinguishing the light)
if Signor Rondi might have the ring put on his arm, and
the reply came “ Yes ”; so we changed places, and the ring
came—not upon his arm—but on the medium's, though he
took all the precautions I had done, and held her hand fast
all the time.
After again putting out the light a most extraordinary
affair occurred which closed the seance. The medium being
seated as at first between myself and Signor Rondi, she
felt her chair disturbed and then pulled from under her by
a powerful hand, thus forcing her to stand on her feet. I
then said: Rondi, I hope you are holding her hand, for I
am?” He replied: “Yes; I have fast hold.” The
medium suddenly said, “ Oh, Mr. Blackburn, I feel so queer t
Oh, I am rising j My feet are not on the floor; I am rising
in the air! Oh, I hope they won’t let me fall; do take
care of me. I feel to be of no weight, and lighter than a
feather now.”
At this point, she held so tightly to my and ^Signor
Rondi’s hands that she pulled us both up from our seats, for
her head was near the ceiling, and she was waving to and
fro in the air like a clock pendulum, her feet occasionally
sweeping across the keys of the piano, and in this position
she swayed for three or four minutes, until she suddenly
dropped, and knocked me into a chair in which one of the
||| children sat. A light was then struck, and the stance
j)l ended.
m Row, in the face of these facts, I should like to see Dr.
! I Carpenter and other men investigating this “ new force,”
i | and not writing so much rubbish about hysterical old women
in and simple-minded men. In fact, it appears to me that
j ! these men dare not grapple properly with this subject, but
j k prefer to adopt the Lankester and Donkin business of ridi-
| j cule and lawsuits, instead of going with proper feeling to
i | various respectable mediums and witnessing the phenomena
j j for themselves. But why pander to professed men of
| | science? Let them be shut out, say l,jrom all seances until
| | theybeg to be admitted, for they stop progress. At present
||| we make ourselves too cheap.
Ojj | Parkfield, Didsbury, near Manchester, Feb. 5th, 1877.
I I CURIOUS PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIMENTS.
j fl BY EMILE, PRINCE OP WITTGENSTEIN.
| | I have just received the following paper from the Theo-
i I sophical Society of New York, and hasten to send it to you,
| | the usual obligation of secrecy being removed in the present
| | instance. I am sure that it will much interest the readers of
,| | The Spiritualist. It is a paper read by Mr. William Q.
! | Judge, before the Theosophical Society.*
j ! “ I began by devoting a certain time each day, always at
||| the same hour, to lying quietly down in a room alone, and
|l| concentrating my attention on a certain place, maybe in the
I I room, with the desire to go there in spirit, and see the things
;j( j- or persons in it, so as to carry back a distinct recollection.
| | At first this did not meet with much success, as far as I could
| | tell. But one day, while sitting quietly in the room, I saw
| | distinctly before me three lines from a newspaper, but they
I- | disappeared before I could read.
II “ Another time I was lying far in the room, with my back
i j to the window, when I was sure I saw the horizon, and
| | noticed that the western sky was very yellow. This proved
| I to be correct. All this time I was awake, and conscious of
m my bodily existence.
|| “At another time, in the same room, I was lying, with my
j | eyes covered by a handkerchief, when I found myself looking
| | at or seeing a placard of dates and places which hung on
| | the wall, altogether out of the line of vision. Again, sitting
|)| before a partition, intently devoting myself to concentration,
j | I distinctly saw, with my eyes shut, the carpet in the
!<| adjoining room.
|)| “All these things happened while I was awake; but in my
i|| sleep at night, through intense desire and will, I have gone
| long distances. Once, while down in New Jersey, sixty
| miles from here, I have come up to this city, and been
| visible to friends in Mdme. Blavatsky’s house. To her house
| in spirit I have frequently gone.
| “One evening, at Mdme. Blavatsky’s, I lay down for the
11 purpose of trying to get out of my body. In a few minutes,
| those present said afterwards, I snored very loudly, but I
| could not recognise any interval of unconsciousness, or
| moment of drowsiness. It appeared to me that I was awake,
| and had risen up in order to go out into the hall, that there
| was a handkerchief over my eyes, as I had placed it upon
j lying down. An endeavour to throw off the obstruction was
| unsuccessful, so out I went into the hall, in what I thought
| was my body, and proceeded into the kitchen, where, by a
I! violent effort, I threw off the handkerchief, when immediatly
| I found myself where I had lain down, listening to the
| laughter of those who had heard my unmusical snore.
| “Row here I have to take the evidence of others. They
| say that while my body snored, my double, or simulacrum,
| scin lecca, or whatever you may name it—that is, a visible
| ‘counterfeit presentment’ of me—could be seen walking
SI down the passage to the kitchen.
| “At another time I went into a room two rooms distant from
) | the one in which Col. Olcott was sitting. Lying down on a bed,
| i I concentrated my thoughts on the room I had just left, keeping
11 my eyes shut meanwhile. In a short time 1 could feel, as ic
[ I were, a double consciousness. The bed under me was distinctly
j ■ * We omit the first part of the paper, which consists of allegations that
; many spiritual phenomena can be produced by men living in the body, and
| that this fact was well known to the magicians of old. The certificated testi-
i mony of other witnesses to such of the facts in this paper as were not
j subjective should have been given by the Theosophical Society.—Ed.
68
THE SPIRITUALIST.
to be felt, but I could also hear Olcott talking as if in the same
room ; I was positive that I was in the same room with him.
Madame Blavatsky asked Mr. Olcott to look at me then on
the same sofa I had only a few minutes before vacated. He
declared it was my material body, and to prove it, came into
the other room, and there found the material body now
before you. By that time I had returned to a full and entire
occupation of this tenement, and rose up to go out with him.
Only the other day, while sitting at home in a dark room,
intently thinking of Colonel Olcott, I found myself in his
room, and he says I was there.
“ One evening, while sitting alone in the same way, I saw
before my eyes the face of my little girl, with a slightly
inflamed scratch on the left cheekbone. I instantly went
down stairs to see her, and found her asleep in her cradle
without a scratch. But the next morning, after breakfast, she
accidentally scratched her cheek in the very place and in the
manner I had seen.
a Now I know that Spiritualists will say, c Oh you are a
medium ; you are naturally clairvoyant.’ But this I deny,
except such amount of clairvoyance as belongs to every one.
I have never exhibited down to this day any medial power,
and none of these things happen without a direct effort of
will on my part. I claim that they are produced in me by
my will acting on my soul perceptions, notwithstanding that
with some it is involuntary.
“ And now as to another kind of experiment. The pro¬
jection of my mind upon others seemed a good thing to try.
Accordingly, I seized every chance that presented itself, and
success often rewarded me. Many times have one or two
persons whom I had not previously mesmerised been per¬
fectly aware that even from a distance I was directing my
mind upon them, and I have often compelled my child to do
certain little things by only looking at her, and mentally
commanding the things to be done. Frequently I have
caused a sentence to be repeated, which had no reference to
the person’s conversation.
“A man owed me some money, and failed to pay as
agreed. One day, resolved to compel him, I stood up, and
for fifteen minutes directing myself to wherever he might
then be, I commanded him violently, as it were, to come
down and pay a certain part of it. The next day he came in
and paid that sum; and, on questioning him, it appeared
that at the time I tried the experiment, he suddenly thought
of me, went out to collect a bill in order to pay me, and
succeeded.
“ By an effort of will, one can project to any distance, and
cause to become visible, little or big spots of light. They
often show themselves to me. Sometimes, when certain
individuals are on the point of starting to call on me, espe¬
cially when that is their only object, one or more bright
spots suddenly appear. They seem to be burstings open of
light that is all around, but screened, the same as if through
a curtain placed before a bright light there now and then
flashed a tiny ray through an aperture that as quickly closed.
And they are for each person different in colour or appearance,
so that I can tell to which individual the one seen belongs. ;
This can easily be proved by our members. Mr. Felt is one
of the persons, and Mr. Gustam is another. An instance
with the latter gentleman I will relate. I was walking
along Broadway one day, when there suddenly flashed out a
large diffused spot of light; I knew then that some
one was coming to me, or was then at my office. In half an
hour I returned, and in the office was this gentleman, who
had arrived just at the time I saw the light. But of course '
the thing was not established. I said nothing to him, nor
did I ask when he was coming again. In a few days I saw
the same light again, noted the time, went back to the office,
and there sat the same man, and he had arrived at the
time noted.
“ One day, in a large audience-room full of people, were
sitting two persons, friends of mine, one of them more j
sensitive than the other, and both in excellent health. I I
came in late, unknown to them, through the entrance in I
the rear of the room, and sat down where they could not |
possibly see me without turning. I began to concentrate |
my mind on one of them, the least sensitive, and gradually
lost sight and hearing of the surroundings. In about fifteen
minutes the one not thought of began to twitch, and seemed to 1
Fib. 9, 1877.
| be nervous, and, after a long interval the other turned around,
| and saw that I was looking.
“ Now the one I was not thinking of felt the influence
| first, and said that it caused a feeling of great nervousness. I
| give my word of honour that I had never tried the experiment
| on that person.
“ Here is an instance of the influence becoming objective
| and striking the first sensitive object coming in the way. It
| suggests great possibilities.
“In Bulwer’s Strange Story, Margrave is asked if he had
! caused the maniac to murder Sir Philip Derval. He answered
that he had willed something to be done and it was done,
although the person doing it had not been called upon
directly, and indeed not even thought of. How awful this
is, if true, and how sublime as well as awful.
“We might, if we were to try, cultivate the power of
talking to another from a great distance, so that, although
nobody is to be seen, the voice can be heard. And it is
true that the most uncultivated can do so while they are
unable to hear anything said by another to them. I have
tried this with one who is a developed medium, so that he
heard all I said, while I was powerless to receive a reply.
“ c What,’ you say, ‘ does all this amount to ? ’ It amounts
to this, that it is the way to begin experiments. It is
the way in which, according to magicians, you must begin.
There is enough here to show that we possess enormous
power. It is a power of the same quality as that which
tips a table, or materialises a snake. If we find then, that,
so far as we have gone, these philosophers of old are correct,
we are somewhat justified in giving credence to all they say ;
and if in regard to the rest we have proof in the doings of
others, then we are completely justified, and their claims are
substantial.
“ Some will say I never saw anything; and others, Spirit¬
ualists, will say that only a spirit can materialise anything.
Now the word 1 materialisation,’ as I use it, is meant to
convey the idea, not of the materialisation of a spirit, but
the materialisation of an idea.
“ If the magician causes a snake to appear, solid, alive,
with real malevolent eye and spiteful hiss, I take it that this
may be the solidification of a dead snake’s emanations, or it
may be the solidification of the idea of a snake.
“ There was here some little time ago a man who is now
on the other side of the Atlantic. Pointing one day to a
napkin upon the dining-table, he said, ‘ There appears to be
something under that.’ On lifting it up, there was coiled
an apparently real cobra, ready to dart at you with poisonous
fang, but after a short time it melted away. At another time,
taking up a tin paper-cutter, devoid of mark, and painted
black, he rubbed his hand over it, and in a moment there
appeared on it the printed advertisement of a stationery firm
in a distant city. Many other things were done that need not
be mentioned. But enough that he claimed that it was
accomplished by will-power.
“ It is possible not only to talk with another who is a long
distance away, but also to make signals, such as sounds of
bells, or sounds of music. I can affirm that I have many
times heard bells ringing in the air when your president
and corresponding secretary were present. There was no
bell in the room. The sound seemed to be in the air,
between me and the wall. On one or two occasions I heard
the combined or chiming sounds of twenty bells; at the
same time I could feel on the skin a peculiar tickling sensa¬
tion. The sound was silvery and distinct, yet had not the
same force that a bell would have if sounded near you.
On several other occasions in the same place I have heard dis¬
tinctly the sweet tones of a musical-box, which was not in
the room. There was no such instrument on the premises.
It grew louder and louder, and then would die away until
it could be heard sounding from afar, just as you hear the
music of a band marching through the fields miles away.
This evening, while standing in Madame Blavatsky’s sitting-
room, I heard it again coming by fits and starts, but perfectly
distinct and of the most beautiful tone.”
Vevey, Switzerland, Feb. 1st, 18.77.
An attack is made upon Mr. Serjeant Cox in the economically got up
Covent Garden pantomime.
Fib. 9, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 69
HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE.
Exchequer Division, Feb. 2.—(Before Barons Cleasby and Pollock.)
MONCK, APPELLANT, V. HILTON, RESPONDENT.
This matter, known as the Huddersfield Spiritualist case, came
before their lordships to-day as an appellate tribunal. The appellant,
Francis Ward Monck, commonly known as Dr. Monck, was, on Nov. j
11 last, convicted at the petty sessions for the borough of Huddersfield, j
on a charge preferred against him by Chief-Constable Hilton, under
Sec. 1 of the Act of 5th George I., known as the Vagrant Act, for that
he “ did unlawfully use subtle craft, means, and devices, by palmistry or
otherwise, to deceive and impose on certain of her Majesty’s subjects,
to wit, George Henry Hepplestone, Henry Bedford Lodge, and others,
contrary to the statute.” For this offence he was adjudged a rogue, and
vagabond, and was committed to the House of Correction at Wakefield
for three calendar months with hard labour. From this conviction Monck
now appealed, on a case stated by the justices for the opinion of this
Court on the points of law involved. It was proved at the hearing that
the appellant Monck gave two spiritual seances at the residence of Mr.
Hepplestone, at Huddersfield, for the sum of £2 each, on Oct. 22 and
23, 1876, but at the latter no money was paid. The persons then present
were directed to place their hands upon the table around which they
wfere seated and their feet under their chairs, after which the appellant
(Monck) said, “ We Spiritualists have to be very guarded in conse¬
quence of the Slade case. Some call it physics, some animal magnetism,
some conjuring, some legerdemain, some one thing and some another.
I call it Spiritualism, but you must judge for yourselves.” There was
but a single gas jet left burning during the “ manifestations,” which
were as follows:—Raps were heard under the table, whereupon the
appellant said, “ They are soon here to-night, the conditions are very
favourable.” He placed a small tambourine upon a musical instrument
called “fairy bells,” and then put it on the table at a little distance from
himself. The instrument was then observed to move towards him, and
he inquired whether the company had seen it move, whereupon one of
them asked him to request the spirit to move it in the opposite direction,
to which the appellant replied, “We had better take the manifestations
exactly as they come,” and that it could not be done. He was then
asked why, and he answered, “ I don’t , know how it is done.” A small
musical box was then handed round to the company, who examined it.
It was placed by the appellant about half a yard in front of himself on
the table. He said the spirits were able to play it. He then placed a
wooden box over it, and the appellant then invited the company to ask
it questions, and that one sound would signify “ No,” and three sounds
“Yes.” One of the company directed the appellant’s attention to the
fact that the musical box which had been placed under the wooden box
was not wound up; whereupon the appellant said that the spirits could
not only play, but wind it up. A hand then appeared above the table
immediately on the left side of the appellant, who put the tambourine to
it, and the fingers of the hand tapped it. The fingers did not move
separately. The hand was not like a human hand, but like a wax hand
which had been rubbed with oil and phosphorus. After a short time the
hand disappeared below the table. One of the witnesses was of opinion
that the hand was like one of the kid-glove hands afterwards found
in the appellant’s possession. Two or three slates were placed by
the appellant upon the table. He said they would receive messages
from departed spirits. A small piece • of pencil was placed by him
upon one of the slates. He then took hold of one corner of the slate,
and a lady took hold of another corner of it. It was held under the
table, and whilst he was there the lady remarked that she felt a great
pressure upon it. One of the company asked for a message from
some departed one. After the slate had been held under the table
about a couple of minutes it was brought forth, and was found to con¬
tain, in very crabbed, angular writing, the words, “ Oh for a Lodge ih
some vast wilderness!” one of the persons present being Mr. Lodge.
Another message was then asked for, and the appellant and the same
lady again held the slate under the table. The lady remarked that
she felt a warm hand ; whereupon the appellant said, “ Well, you’re
sure it’s not my hand ?” She replied, “ No; I am not.” When the
slate was again produced there was a button upon it and the follow¬
ing message :—“ Good night, Philemon.—Samuel”—the appellant
having previously stated that his spirit guide was Samuel Wheeler.
The button above mentioned was taken off the lady’s dress, and she
stated that it was pulled from her dress rather violently. A lady was
then asked by the appellant to sit on the lid of the piano. She did so,,
and the same note sounded; but it was proved that the appellant was
close to the piano at the time. Mr. Lodge then asked the appellant if
the spirit would play some other note. The appellant stamped, where¬
upon Mr. Lodge said, “That’s you.” Two of the ladies then left the
room, and Mr. Lodge told Dr. Monck that he was not satisfied, and
said he could produce the same manifestations under the same con¬
ditions. Mr. Lodge further said that if he could not find the spirit
hand, a duplicate musical box, and other things, he would give ,£50 to
the cause of Spiritualism. He wanted to search the appellant, but the
latter declined, and eventually struck Mr. Lodge, and, rushing upstairs,
locked himself in his bedroom, from which he escaped by fastening a
sheet round the waterspout and sliding down. In the apartment were
found a number of articles, including boxes, kid-glove hands stuffed
and having elastic attached to them, linen with faces slightly sketched
upon it with gauze thread, thin wire, a number of slates and pencils, a
musical box, a musical album, and a long rod divisible into small
lengths. Similar articles were, however, shown to have been openly
used by the appellant at Bristol for the previous four years in his public
lectures, showing how conjurors produced manifestations similar to those
of Spiritualism. The sole question raised for the opinion of this Court
by the special case stated by the justices was whether the conviction of
the appellant under the Vagrant Act (5 Geo. IV., c. 83) was good in
point of law.
Mr. Matthews, Q.C., and Mr. Lockwood were counsel for the appel¬
lant ; Mr. Poland represented the respondent.
Mr. Matthews, on behalf of the appellant, contended that he had
been wrongfully convicted under a statute which did not apply in cases
of this kind, but was directed against gipsies and others who were
declared by the Act to be rogues and vagabonds for acts of “ palmistry
or otherwise,” which were the words used in the 83rd section of the
Act, directed against vagabonds. The section of the Act to which he
had referred enacted that every person pretending or professing to tell
fortunes, or using any subtle craft, means, or device, by palmistry or
otherwise, to deceive and impose upon any of his Majesty’s subjects
should be deemed a rogue and a vagabond. These words, taken in their
widest sense, would include a great variety of acts of false pretences,
such as forgery at common law and any common conjuring trick, but he
submitted that the words of the section c‘ or otherwise ” must be taken
as applying to fortune-telling and palmistry as amongst the offences
against which the statute was expressly directed. The offence of which
the appellant had been convicted was neither palmistry nor anything
ejusdem generis, and, therefore, did not come within the scope of the
Act. According to Cowell’s Law Dictionary, palmistry was defined as
a kind of divination practised upon looking upon the lines and marks
upon the fingers or the palms of the hand by the Egyptians or gipsies of
old; and the same definition was to be found in all the ordinary law
dictionaries and common law dictionaries of the land. There had been
no pretence that Dr. Monck had ever professed that he was calling up a
spirit. He told the persons assembled that they must judge for them¬
selves, and where, after this declaration, was there an attempt to deceive
or impose on any of her Majesty’s subjects within the terms of the Act?
There had, it was true, being conjuring tricks; but according to the;
decision in “ Johnson v. Fenner,” that would not bring the appellant
within the Act. He submitted that no offence against the law had in
this case been contemplated or committed, and, further, whatever had
been done by the appellant did not bring him within the Rogue and
Vagabond Act, for at the very most his pretences were those of conjura¬
tion, and were not acts of palmistry, nor could they come within the
category of “ or otherwise,’’ which clearly embraced fortune-telling or
palmistry. Under these circumstances, he considered that the convic¬
tion was bad in law and could not be sustained.
Mr. Poland, in support of the conviction, contended that the magis¬
trates were right in law in convicting the appellant under the Rogue
and Vagabond Act,, which gave to them the right of dealing with a
number of offences, such as false pretences, acts of indecency, and others.
It did not follow that because persons might be dealt with under other
laws they were not to be convicted under this particular statute, by
which the Legislature had given a wider scope than that of the Act, the;
17th Geo. II., which in its 4th section used the words, “light and crafty
science,” whereas in the subsequent Act the words were, “ any subtle
craft, means, or device, by palmistry or otherwise, to impose on any of
his Majesty’s subjects.” According to the dictum laid down in Latham’s
“ Johnson,” palmistry was not limited to telling fortunes by the lines of
of the hand, for the second definition of the term was, in that, work,
“ action by the hand,” and the quotation appended thereto was from
Addison.
Mr, Baron Pollock said that "Webster, in his dictionary, said that
Addison had used it in a humorous sense as meaning the action of the
hand. He should like to hear the quotation from Addison.
Mr. Poland replied that he would quote the passage. Sir Roger—
(laughter)—-got off his horse to relieve a beggar, and the passage in
Addison was this:—“ He got off his horse going to relieve a common
beggar, when he found his pocket was picked, at which practice such
vermin are very dexterous.” (Great laughter.) He submitted that the
means and devices used by Monck in tins case came within the words
“ or otherwise ” in the section of the statute.
Mr. Baron Cleasby—But not within the word “ palmistry.”
Mr. Poland—No, my lord. The learned counsel, in conclusion, con¬
tended that the Legislature had framed the Act for the protection of
ignorant and credulous people, and that it was not necessary to bring a
man within its provisions that he should be a wanderer over the country
or living in a van, but that he might be equally a vagabond who had a
permanent residence, and who brought back to it the spoils which he
had made by imposing and deceiving her Majesty’s subjects, in the
terms of the Act of Henry VIII., out of their money. The offences
committed by the appellant came, he submitted, within the words
of the section “ or otherwise,” and the conviction must, therefore, be
sustained.
Mr. Matthews having replied,
Their lordships reserved judgment until Tuesday.—Daily Telegraph,
THE JUDGMENT ON THE APPLICABILITY OF THE VAGRANCY. ACT.
In the Exchequer Division of the High Court of Justice last Tuesday
morning, before Barons Cleasby and Pollock, the appeal from a decision
of the Huddersfield justices, by which the appellant, Francis Ward
Monck was adjudged as a rogue and vagabond, under 5 George IV. ch.
83, section 4, to the House of Correction at Wakefield for three months’
hard labour for having held an alleged spiritualist seance, on the 23rd
October last, was adjudicated upon.—Mr. Matthews, Q.C., and Mr.
Lockwood appeared on behalf of the appellant, and Mr. Poland repre¬
sented the respondent, who was a police superintendent at Hudders¬
field.—Baron Cleasby stated that the question before the Court arose by
the magistrates having found as a fact that the appellant had used cer¬
tain subtle craft, means, and devices to deceive and impose upon her
Majesty’s subjects, and also that the case was within the statute 5 George
IV., ch. 83, sec. 4. The magistrates had then asked the opinion of the
superior court as to whether their decision was right. His lordship
had nothing to do with the correctness of the facts arrived at by the
magistrates, but to decide whether there was sufficient ground for con-
70
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 9, 1877.
viction under the act. The appellant had contended that the words in ||
the act, “ palmistry or otherwise,” confined the application of the ! f
statute to acts similar to palmistry, such as telling fortunes by the lines j)
on the hands and face, and that the case of Johnson v. Fenner, which i j
was decided in the Court of Queen’s Bench, supported that view. It | j
appeared to his lordship that the Court on that occasion had very pro- i)
perly held that the act could not in that case be applied to acts by mere j j
sleight of hand. In the present case, however, his lordship was deal- j! j
ing with a peculiar power alleged to belong to the appellant himself, j j
and the Court was entitled to look to the whole of the clause by which i (|
the conviction had taken place, and not to be limited to the words “by iji
palmistry or otherwise.” The clause included all persons who told jl|
fortunes, provided deception was practised by doing so, including “ by !j!
palmistry or otherwise.” It was quite clear the act complained of was | [
not brought within the words “ by palmistry or otherwise,” but the jj
appellant wished to limit the effect of the clause by a peculiar con- |(
struction. His lordship was, however, of opinion that the words “by j j
palmistry or otherwise ” must be taken in connection with the rest of 11
the clause, and that the clause must be applied to a distinct class of j (
acts, of which palmistry might be said to be an instance. The learned i [ |
counsel for the appellant referred to the Act before the Court as one of i( j
a series of statutes which had been applied to a very different class of j (j
offences and punishments to that now before the Court, but those j)!
statutes had been repealed by the Act under which that conviction had i j i
taken place, and such statute now formed the legislation on the subject. |(|
By doing certain things and neglecting to do certain thiugs, it enacted j > j
that the offender should be in the same position as a rogue and a j(j
vagabond, which at the present day was not of necessity confined to j(j
a person leading a “ vagabond ” life, and for all these reasons his lord- | j |
ship was of opinion that the appellant had been properly dealt with as | j!
a rogue and a vagabond, to be committed to the House of Correction i |!
for three months with hard labour.—Baron Pollock considered that the i) |
appellant had used subtle craft, means, and devices beyond that of j(;
physical dexterity, and of a professed dealing with spiritual "agencies as | H
a scientific pursuit, in order to deceive and impose upon her Majesty’s | / i
subjects. He was, therefore, of opinion that the case as stated came j;('i
within the Act referred to, and there was, therefore, no ground for dis- j S:
turbing the conviction of the magistrates.—The appeal was, therefore, j/j
dismissed with costs.—Evening Standard. j;(-i
LEGAL POINTS IN THE SLADE CASE. | [
BY CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY. ;(|
The prosecution of Dr. Slade was an attempt to convince the public ]| j
that Slade was an impostor, and Spiritualism humbug, by bringing a i|||
charge of attempted imposition on a particular occasion. We had to i )|
meet a large and popular issue upon a narrow and legal one; and to do |||
so it was necessary to contend that a great deal of evidence was relevant {(i
in this case which would certainly be irrelevant (except as raising a I) i
presumption from character) in any other. Suppose Spiritualism to j h
have been an accepted fact, really, as nominally not in dispute. Sup- j (!
pose that, instead of talking of “the known course of Nature,” the |/i
Magistrate had said to us—“ The facts as proved before me appear to j <;
be more consistent with writing by Slade than with spirit writing; and j j j;
that will still be so, in my opinion, even if you prove that Slade is a |) |
medium for their writing on other occasions,” it is obvious that a 1(1
judicious magistrate, without making any needless presumptions against j)!
our facts, might fairly have declined to listen to general evidence, j /
incapable of application to the particular question in dispute. In point i (
of fact, however, we had certain evidence which would have made the j)
proof of Slade’s mediumship entirely relevant. Mr. Flowers was j)
asked to infer that Slade wrote the message because there was no i (
time for it to be written during the “fraction of a second” that the \)
slate was “ in position.” We could have shown that spirit writing
is sometimes produced with instantaneous rapidity. He was asked to
infer that if the message was written before the slate was in position,
Slade wrote it. We could have shown that messages sometimes come
upon Slade’s slates while the latter are in motion, and before they are
placed against the table, and this under circumstances quite incon- ]
sistent with the suggestions of the prosecution. Let us take another j
supposition. * The magistrate1 might have said, with logical explicitness,
to Mr. Lewis, “ Prove that three persons were alone together in a room, j
that writing is produced on a slate, that two of the persons had no hand
in it, and that the third said he had not. You have then proved a case
of false pretence by the third. I know nothing of any mysterious
agencies, and I will listen to no proof of them ; but that being the case
I will not allow the time of the Court to be wasted by your proving or
by the other side attempting to disprove anything beyond the four
simple facts I have mentioned,” the case would have been over in ten
minutes. But that would not have done for the prosecution. True
they wanted the benefit of the presumption, but it would not have
served their purpose to have had it explicitly avowed. What Mr. j
Flowers did was neither the one thing nor the other. He said in effect,
“ I will listen to evidence, to examinations, and cross-examinations,
which can only be material on the assumption that writing may possibly
be produced by some invisible agency, but I will judge of the evidence
on the assumption that it cannot.”
General evidence would, however, have been strictly relevant to the
conspiracy charge, if Mr. Simmons had been called upon for a defence.
To have rejected it when tendered on his behalf, would have been the
grossest injustice. As regards him the whole question was his bona Jide
belief in Slade, and any facts that justified such belief were undoubtedly
pertinent. In this respect it is, perhaps, unfortunate, that the joint
charge broke down so soon. In granting the new summons for con- j
spiracy, Mr. Flowers was influenced by the admission made by Mr.
Simmons in the witness box, that he was Slade’s partner. That was in
fact almost wholly immaterial. If Slade was charged with carrying on
a trade in imposture, the'fact of a partnership would, of course, be very
important evidence against Simmons. But if Slade was a real medium
there would be nothing in the fact of a partnership to affect Simmons
with knowledge of any particular exceptional act of dishonesty by the
former. We could have placed the Court and the prosecution in this
dilemma. Either you raise the issue of habitual imposition by Slade,
or you do not. If you do, it lets in all our evidence to prove the con¬
trary ; if you do not, there is no evidence against Simmons in the fact
of a partnership in what may be, for all that appears, a perfectly bona
fide business. There was much discussion at Bow-street as to the ad¬
missibility of evidence tendered by the prosecution of persons other than
those named in the summonses. It seems to me that on the hearing of
the conspiracy charge, such evidence would have been clearly relevant,
if Simmons’s partnership had been proved. For example, it would be
monstrous to charge one of a bill discounting firm with complicity in
a forgery committed by his partner, upon no other evidence than the
partnership; but it would be quite competent to show, as against
him, that all, or a considerable number of, the acceptances presented
by the firm have been forgeries. If, then, the prosecution had proved,
to the satisfaction of the magistrate, that Slade had been guilty of
impositions on more occasions than those deposed to by the prosecutor
and his friend, Mr. Flowers would have been quite justified in granting
a new summons for conspiracy as soon as the fact of the partnership had
come out. But this was so far from being the case that none of the other
witnesses even professed to have detected trickery, and we all know
that the magistrate himself declared such evidence to the contrary
as we were allowed to produce to be “overwhelming.” By what
logical confusion he has come to the conclusion that he ought to
grant another summons for conspiracy it is difficult to say.
With your permission, I will submit some further observations on the
legal aspects of the case in your next number.
©Drrespmxuena.
Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to thoseof this journal and its readers. Umolicitedcommunicatiotiscannotbe returned; copies
should be kept by the writers.']
THE PROSECUTION OE MEDIUMS.
Sir,—If it be possible to convict and imprison any “ medium ” under
either of the Acts of Parliament cited in the Slade and Monck cases,
then would not every Homan Catholic priest in the kingdom be liable to
the same punishment forthwith ?
I take it they would be, for do they not daily receive money from
members of their congregations, promising in return to say certain
masses, which masses they undertake shall relieve from the pains of
purgatory or in some way benefit the soul of some friend or relative who
has passed away ? Could any “ consideration for money paid ’’ be more
intangible than this ?
And if any such priest were cited before Mr. Flowers, how could he
prove that the deceased person had been benefited in any way ? Would
not Mr. Flowers say it was “ contrary to the course of nature? ”
The plea of “work and labour done” (in saying the masses) I think
would not help the priest, and if my view be correct, it shows the utter
absurdity of people trying to strain Acts of Parliament beyond their
legitimate intention and meaning. Serjeant Ballantine pointed this out
forcibly at Westminster on Monday. Lynx.
Tottenham, January 30th, 1877.
TWO QUESTIONS.
Sir,—Some months ago you inserted a note from myself, in which I
asked, first—Can any one give a scientific description of the manner in
which a rap is produced in a table, on a wall, etc., etc. ? Second—Has
any spirit given an exact and reasonable account of the means or process
by which a disembodied spirit continues to live ?
As yet no reply to these questions has been given. Surely some of the
exceedingly intellectual spirits who, as controls, give such marvellous
descriptions of the spirit-world, are capable of informing us minutely on
these two subjects. If they do not give us this needful information,
why is it? J. Hawkins Simpson.
[An answer to one of these questions was given last week. "Why does not
Mr. Simpson deal with the problems himself ?]
MR. WILLIAM LAWRENCE.
Sir,—I have not seen the article in the Dispatch, but I have heard
it quoted in disparagement of Lawrence, and I am glad to see that Mr.
Burton has taken the initiative in confuting the unfounded assertion.
I have much pleasure in confirming his testimony to Mr. Lawrence’s
medial powers, as regards physical phenomena and trance speaking. In
this I am joined by several other Spiritualists, who are also quite
satisfied as to the genuineness of his mediumship, from having had
repeated sittings with him. I have frequently heard capital trance
addresses and sermons, couched in excellent terms, delivered through
him, and purporting to emanate from individuals once in high standing
on the earth-plane; and amongst these from one giving the name of
Dr. Increase Mather, son of “Cotton Mather,” whose slate message
appears in your last issue, page 39, through Mr. Eglinton’s mediumship.
This spirit in his (trance) sermons always deplored his persistent perse¬
cution of the Quakers, which sect originated during his earthly career.
I mention these facts, as showing that Lawrence was no ordinary
medium, and I hope Miss Kislingbury’s kind appeal will be generously
responded to on behalf of Mrs. Lawrence and family.
Host. Simpson.
224, Albany-road, Camberwell, S.E., January 27th, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
71
Feb. 9, 1877.
MORE ABOUT MAJOR BLOMBERG.
Sir,—I have not by me the number of The Spiritualist which contains
Mr. Whitear’s elaborate collection of versions of the Blomberg story.
I remember, however, that he was surprised that I should be surprised
at the discrepancies in the accounts. Certainly he has not diminished
that surprise by multiplying the versions, and after the pains he must
have taken in getting them together, J, in my turn, am surprised that
he should be surprised that I am surprised. Nor can I satisfy him,
I am afraid, as to the “ how ” more than I did. I thought by placing
side by side the two versions, I had shown the way in which discre¬
pancies had crept in. I do not quite see how I could do more, since
none can tell at this date to what cause they are due, nor (I should
think) how far exactly error has crept in. I begin to have some doubts,
after reading Mr. Whitear’s paper, whether there ever was any Major
Blomberg at all, or, if there were, whether his ghost ever appeared, or,
if it did, to whom, when, where, and how. And this, in a mild way,
was my object in writing the letter which has surprised Mr. Whitear.
The serious doubt let into one’s mind by finding a very well known
story vary so much in details, not only, as it at first seemed, of
secondary importance, but, as now appears, of vital moment, is
this: What reliance can be put on any of these traditional stories ?
No doubt it must be expected that stories verbally handed on from one
person to another will vary in minute details, but this is a little too
much.
It furnishes, however, another illustration of the necessity for
recording at once, and with brevity and precision, facts which form
material for history, and will hereafter be the basis on which the philo¬
sophy of Spiritualism will be built. It has frequently occurred to me,
that a portion of your space would be usefully devoted to recording very
brief and precise accounts of the phenomena which your readers observe
from time to time. Many things are forgotten, or lost, for want of half-
a-dozen lines to fix the observation or impression of the moment. And,
when a man would not care to write a long letter, he might find time
to put down two or three sentences, which would serve all the purposes,
and be, in many cases, more to the point, from the very fact of con¬
densation. When you had received a sufficient number of these brief
records, they would form a very valuable and interesting column of
“ Facts and Phenomena.”
‘‘ But, to return to Mr. Blomberg. I have yet another version of
that Protean story. It is contained in the Spiritual Times of June 3,
1865, and to it are appended the well-known initials, “ A. M. H. W.”
She describes the narrative as “ copied from an MS. yellow with age,
and the writing of which has faded into a pale brown.” She received
it from “ a friend who found it among the papers of a deceased relative.”
Perhaps this vagueness may now be removed, so- that the source of the
story may be got at. It is as follows:—
When Sir William Yonge was Governor of Martinique I was a lieutenant
in the Regiment. A gentleman of the name of Blomberg was a subaltern
in the same corps with myself. He was of German extraction, and had
married a Miss L., by whom he had one child, of whom he was extravagantly
fond. Mrs. Blomberg, soon after the birth of this child, died. My friend, who
was a man of uncommon sensibility, mourned the death of his amiable wife
with the greatest sincerity, and transferred all his affection for the departed
to the living child of his care. When his boy had reached his second year,
Mr. Blomberg was ordered to this island, and unwilling to leave the pledge of
Caroline’s love to the care of strangers, he hired a nurse for the infant, and
resolved they should accompany him on his voyage. My friend, who doatpd
on his child, and whose whole happiness centred in its little prattle, was never
easy but when the little Edward was with him. If he rode out you were
certain of seeing his blooming son seated before him. In short, he existed
but in the innocent smiles of his boy.
About nine months after he had been stationed here, business carried him
to the windward of this island. At the time the Government House happened
to be exceedingly crowded, for barracks not yet being built, most of the officers
were obliged to take up their abode in the mansion, and double beds were
placed in the chambers. A few nights after Mr. Blomberg had been absent,
I had not been in bed a quarter of an hour before I heard a person enter my
apartment, advance to my bed, and undraw my curtains. I found that it
was Blomberg. I inquired when he had arrived in town. In reply he in¬
formed me “He had died that night,” and then in the most pathetic words
recommended his son to my protection, and disappeared. Struck with
astonishment, I rubbed my eyes, and fain would have persuaded myself that
it was the vision of a dream; but calling to Mr. M., a gentleman who slept
in the same room as myself, I inquired of him if he had heard anybody enter
the chamber? He replied; I thought it was Blomberg; what brought him
here at so late an hour ?” “ Did you hear him speak ?” said I. He answered
in the affirmative, but observed that he could not distinguish what he said.
I then related the particulars, and the next morning mentioned it at the
breakfast table, where I was most severely bantered. In the evening, how¬
ever, news was received of my poor friend’s death. He had fallen a victim to
a bilious fever which attacked him the very day of his arrival at the place of
his destination. This confirmed what I had related. I instantly took the little
orphan under my protection. Looking into my friend’s papers I found forty
pounds, and traced by some letters that the mother and sisters of Mrs.
Blomberg were living in   street, Hanover-square. I found also that
though they were people of family, they were in indifferent circumstances,
and received a pension of forty pounds a year from Her Majesty. There¬
fore, considering it necessary to inform them of the circumstance, I deter¬
mined, in case no person should take pity upon his youth, never to abandon
him ; and though a lieutenant’s pay is too trifling to mention, it was all the
fortune I could boast, yet resolved he should partake of my scanty pittance.
I embarked the child and his nurse for England, and gave the woman a letter
to the grandmother, in which I mentioned the above particulars, and ordered
her to carry him to   street; but strange to tell, both grandmother and
aunt refused to receive him. However, they mentioned the circumstance to a
person of fashion distantly related to them, who thought the story so extra¬
ordinary that she related it to our gracious Queen. Her Majesty pitied the
helpless babe, desired to see him, and nobly had him reared and educated with
the young prince.
A German lady about the Court took a particular fancy to the child, and
treated him in every respect with the tenderness of a mother. Between three
and four years ago a gentleman died of the name of Blomberg, leaving "an
estate from fifteen hundred to two thousand a year. No heir appeared, and
the lady had the generosity to stand forth the friend of young Edward. He
being of the same name as the deceased, a distant relationship was traced,
and through the assiduity and liberality of the before-mentioned lady, he has
gained the fortune, and is now at the University pursuing his studies. This
amiable benefactress, anxious to be near him, has taken a house in this neigh¬
bourhood, and it is imagined at her death will leave him all she is possessed of.
. And here the poor ghost may rest, if there be any ghost left.
MA. (Oxon.)
(j HELP FOR MRS. LAWRENCE.
)| Sir,—Since my last announcement I have received the following
(| sums on behalf of Mrs. Lawrence:—Mr. W. Oxley, £2; Mr. Norman
ij (Exeter), £1; Mr. E. D. Rogers, 7s. 6d.; Mrs. MakdougallGregory, 10s.;
)j Miss Stone, 2s.; Mrs. X., 2s. 6d.; Mr. C. C. Massey, 2s. 6d. Amounts
j already acknowledged, £11 Is. 6d.; total amount, £15 4s. 6d.
(j   Emily Kislingbury.
ji art in hospitals.
(I Sir,—I wish to solicit your comments upon a new and very much
)| needed charity that has already been favourably taken up by some of
n the leading journals—the Times and others.
u The insertion of the enclosed paragraph would be of service to the
>i undertaking.—I am,’faithfully yours, Lawrence-Hamilton. ■
(j , 34, Gloucester-terrace, Hyde-park, W., 1st Feb.
>j “ All who have any acquaintance with the interiors of our London hospitals
(i must have been struck by the excessive dreariness of most of the wards. It
(| is time that this should be remedied. A little energy on the part of a few
\j philanthropists and artists, aided by subscriptions from the general public,
> j would suffice to accomplish this improvement. I advocate the brightening of
} | the wards, and the cheering of their inmates, by the addition of suitable
(j pictures, plate, bronzes, carvings, bric-a-brac, old armour, china, sculpture,
11 ornamental clocks, fancy glass, tasteful glazed tiles, and other art decorations
>! ' of all sorts.
(| “To promote this object I will give a hundred guineas, provided that a
(| thousand other donors each subscribes an equal or larger sum before the 1st
j| of May, 1877. A responsible committee being formed, I believe that Messrs.
/ j Robarts, Lubbock and Go. will act as bankers' to this fund. Soon I hope that
ji some public place will be granted as a provisional storehouse of and exhibition
j for art contributions, previous to their distribution to the hospitals of London,
j 1 Intending donors, contributors, and subscribers are invited to communicate
)j with J. Lawrence-Hamilton, 34, Gloucester-terrace, Hyde-park, W.”
! SPIRITUALISM AT HOME.
I The Spiritual phenomena witnessed in private in home circles, the
j details of which rarely come under public notice, are of as much interest
j as those which are generally known. There is a duchess who can hold
ji a quill pen by the extreme end of the feather, whilst through her
) | mediumship the point of the pen writes out messages upon paper. In
ji another column will be found an article by Mr. Blackburn, setting
j forth how, at a private circle, a medium was swinging in the air, with
j! her head near the ceiling, while two of the sitters held her hands. At
jj another circle, recently, a gentleman stood on the top of a table to keep
j i it quiet, but it went up in the air with himself upon it, in consequence
j! of the power possessed by a private medium.
j At another private seance, held a few days ago, a materialised spirit
| form, while standing before the company and away from the cabinet,
j | was seen to sink down behind a long piece of drapery which he held in
jj his hands, until nothing was visible but a pair of hands emerging from
>i the white mass. Presently the figure rose again slowly, but instead of
(j the form which was first seen, was another quite different in features,
ji height, size, and vesture. The voice from the cabinet proclaimed,
>j There, that is a transformation.” Meantime the medium, who was
ji ' not bound, was heard coughing and moving about in his chair behind
(I the curtain.
jj Spirit Manifestation during the Conquest of Mexico by Cortes.
j j —There is a tale which comes from Mexican sources, that Montezuma
ji bethought him now of staying the advance of the Spaniards by means
j j of his wizards and his necromancers. He sent a number of them forth,
)j that by their incantations and their wizardries they might enchant his
jj enemies to their destruction. The story that they told was, that they
jj met a man in the way, “he seemed like an Indian of Chaleo; he
jj seemed like one that is drunk;” and that this man threatened and
jj scorned them. “ What does Montezuma intend to do ? ” he exclaimed.
ji “ Is it now that he is bethinking himself of awakening? Is it now
jj that he is beginning to fear? But already there is no remedy for
jj him, for he has caused many deaths unjustly. He has committed
jj many injuries, treacheries and follies.” Then the soothsayers and
jj enchanters were much afraid, and made a mound of earth as an altar
ij for this man. But he would not sit upon it, and his wrath was only
j greater, and he spake again, saying, “He would never more make
account of Mexico, nor have charge of that people, nor assist them.
| And when the soothsayers would answer him, they could not do so—
j (Jit., there was a knot in their throats).” Having uttered these things
and other threats, pointing to the destruction of Mexico, the seeming
j Chalan vanished from their sight. Then the soothsayers perceived
j that they had been talking with the god Tezcatlipuk, and they
j returned to Montezuma and related all that had happened to them,
j And when he heard it the king was very sad and crestfallen, and for
j . a time said not a word. At last he broke out into lamentations over
Mexico, deploring the fate of their old men and their old women, of
their youths and of their maidens, concluding a doleful discourse by
j words which contain the philosophy of despair. “ We are born : let
j that come which must come.” Nacidos somos ; venffa lo que viniere.
I —Life of Hernando Cortes, by A rthur Helps.
72
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
The ordinary fortnightly meeting of the Psychological Society was
held on Thursday, last week, at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square,
London, under the presidency of Mr. Serjeant Cox.
Mr. F. K. Munton, honorary secretary, read a communication from
Mr. C. J. Taylor, M.A., on “ Dreams arising out of Waking Fears ; ”
he also read a communication on “ Experiments in Artificial Somnam¬
bulism.” The following new members were elected:—Mr. Thomas
Moseley, M.A., Mr. E. B. Florence, and Mr. H. C. Emery.
THE PHENOMENA OF SLEEP AND DREAM.
The President read a second paper on “ The Phenomena of Sleep
and Dream,” a portion of which will be found in another column.
Mr. W. H. Coffin remarked that much in the paper consisted of a
series of assumptions. The two brains so much resembled each other,
that he thought it to be probable that their functions were identical, and
it was a great assumption that in healthy wakefulness both of them were
acting together, for he thought that there was evidence tending to’ show
that they acted alternately. It would appear from the statements of Mr.
Serjeant Cox that the mind could only entertain one idea at one time,
which would seem to imply that the brain could entertain but one idea at
the same moment; the theories of the phrenologists pointed to the
probability of the mind entertaining several ideas at once. He did not
think that the explanations in the paper were borne out by the assump¬
tions on which they were founded. As there was less blood in the
brain during sleep, and as there was no physiological evidence that
there was then more blood or activity in one-half of the brain than in
the other, the -chief of the assumptions in the paper did not appear to
be borne out by facts. The production of particular muscular actions
by the excitation of particular portions of the brain, did not prove that
a particular part of the brain governed the actions, for they might be
due to the influence of the whole brain being affected differently, accord¬
ing to the part of it which was excited. If this view were correct,
Ferrier’s experiments did not corroborate the ideas of phrenologists.
Throughout the paper there was an assumption that the ego was not the
mere product of body and mind taken together.
Mr. C. C. Massey remarked that sleep being induced by a decrease of
the amount of blood in the brain, he, like Mr. Coffin, could not see why
the assumption should be made that blood was taken from one part of
the brain only; but this assumption Mr. Serjeant Cox, with his know¬
ledge of the subject, might be able to show was more probable than at
first sight it appeared to be.- If he understood the points which had
been put forward, their President assumed that the ideas of a man were
duplicates, enabling the mind to compare and reason; granting that j,
postulate, it seemed to him that the presence of these two ideas would j i
not account for the phenomena of wakefulness, because it had further to j1
be assumed that there was a power whieh compared, consequently sleep i (
might be due merely to that power being withdrawn. He thought that j (
there was an essential difference between dream and reverie. A man in !j
a pleasing reverie could always “pull himself up;” his thoughts all l|
along flowed from one subject to another with a clear connection of 11
ideas, and the chain of argument remained in the memory ; it was not j ]
so with dreams. There was nothing of an abnormal nature about him, [|
consequently his experiences in relation to dreams were probably the i \
same as the majority of those present; but there was one thing about j ]
dreams which he could not explain. In a dream a conversation was L
carried on with another person who appeared to be real; not only was |1
this so, but the chief puzzle to him was the extraordinary individuality j ]
of character of that other person, and the way in which the visionary j i
talker would convey ideas to the dreamer, quite foreign to his habitual |1
modes of thought.
Mr. Algernon Joy thought that Mr. Serjeant Cox had drawn a h
parallel between the two eyes and the two brains which was scarcely ’ j1
borne out by his own theory. The action of the two eyes was identical. I ]
"When one eye was shut objects might appear to be a little flatter, but the i (
effect was in the main the same. When a man had lost one eye his j1
powers of vision did not differ in quality but only in degree from those | j
of other persons. That the two pictures presented to the eye should be j i
merged into one depended upon the two eyes being focussed together, j1
If he held his finger a foot before his eyes and looked intently at that |!
finger, he saw two pictures instead of one upon the distant wall of the 11
room ; and if he gazed upon that picture so as to see it clearly, he saw !1
two fingers instead of -one a short distance before his eyes, which were j j
then not focussed to see the finger properly. He then narrated that ; i
when he was a junior cadet at Woolwich, an officer woke him suddenly jj
one morning, and gave him a message to deliver, which message he q
repeated to the officer to show that he remembered it. That message j i
was never delivered, and he never to that day remembered that he had j1
been awakened, or that any message had been entrusted to him.
Mr. Gordon was of opinion that the members of the society should h
have an opportunity of reading the papers before discussing them, j1
When a carefully prepared paper was suddenly brought before them ij
they were not in a position to criticise it off-hand, consequently the |j
reader of the memoir had them at great advantage. The paper had I
brought before them a whole string of exceedingly plausible proposi- j'J
tions; he should like to have time to examine them before coming to j i
any conclusions. If the main theory of the paper were true, sleep was I
due to purely physiological causes. If so, how was it that some people j]
never dreamt while others were always dreaming ? That point ought to ii
be explained by the production of physiological evidence. How was it !'
that in dreams the feelings were so exaggerated ? how was it they were i (
so much more violent than in waking moments ? Take the feeling of ! >
grief, for example ? He knew a case of a man connected with the law j
who, when travelling backwards and forwards between London and |
Manchester, and attending to legal business meanwhile, kept himself I
Feb. 9, 1877.
artificially awake for sixty hours, after which, while standing near the
mantelpiece and offering his arm to a lady to take her down to dinner,
he suddenly fell sound asleep in a standing position. Once he had to
read prayers of a most astounding nature for his aunt, there being
nobody else there to do it; he read perhaps six pages without knowing
or remembering a word, and yet he did it all right; how was that ? He
could dream while reading legal documents aloud, yet always pulled up
if he came to an error.
Major Owen remarked that perhaps some member of the medical
profession could inform them what was the action of one half of the
brain when the other half was destroyed. He knew of a case in which
one third of a man’s brain had been separated by a sabre cut, and so far
as he remembered the state of that man’s mind, he was conscious up to
the sixth day after the injury and then he died. During those six days
he did not seem to remember the past or to look forward to anything;
he seemed to have no hope or fear. The two eyes gave a man the
power of judging distances. On the same principle did two brains give
the knowledge of the past, present, and future, and one brain give
knowledge only of the present ?
Mr. Munton asked whether the members of the society could give
authenticated cases of men sleeping while walking considerable dis¬
tances. He wished that the members would bring forward much inform¬
ation of actual cases. There were some persons who could go to sleep
nine or ten times in an hour. He knew a man who could travel for
forty minutes on the Metropolitan Railway, and fall into a deep sleep
between each of the stations, yet be wide awake every three minutes
whenever the train stopped; after the train started again he was quite
unconscious, even if anybody spoke to him. He should like to have
some explanation of this peculiarity.
Mr. Ashman said that when he was a boy he could both walk and
sleep; at the present time he could drop off to sleep anywhere or every¬
where. If the heart pumped blood to the brain, what stopped blood
from going there during sleep ? How was it that a man could wake at
the precise moment he had fixed upon before going to sleep ?
Mr. Rawlinson stated that according to his experience a person could
compare and reason in dreams ; he had reasoned in his own dreams.
The Rev. W. Stainton-Moses wishes to know how the President
accounted for prophetic dreams.
The President replied that he would answer that at once. He did
not believe in them at all.
The Rev. W. Stainton-Moses opined that his disbelief would not alter
the fact.
The Chairman replied that people often professed to tell the future;
but how remarkable it was that they never told anything about the past.
The past could be verified.
Mr. Algernon Joy said that there were ssores of cases in which clair¬
voyants had told him things about his past life.
The Chairman responded that those things were within Mr. Joy’s own
knowledge. He wanted something not in anybody’s mind at the time.
Mr. Stainton-Moses stated that many previsions had been literally
fulfilled.
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood said that Mr. Jocelyn went to Lottie
Fowler and learned from her about the loss of the Strathmore. She
told him that she saw a ship wrecked on a island, and a young man,
whom she supposed to be his son, had escaped to the island. This was
long after the event had taken place, and before Mr. Jocelyn had other¬
wise learned anything about the matter.
Major Owen remarked that if anybody told them what had taken
place in the past, and it was a thing which could be verified, that person
might, in a supersensuous way, have seen the evidence from which the
verification was afterwards obtained.
Mr. Ashman said that Professor William Denton had written a book
called the Soul of Things, in which he narrated how sensitives had put
pieces of rock to their foreheads, and had professed to see events con¬
nected with those pieces of rock which had taken place thousands of
years ago.
The Chairman then announced the adjournment of the discussion,
and requested members to bring forward as many facts connected with
the subject as possible.
At the next meeting of the society, the second part of Professor
Plumptre’s paper, “ On the Psychology of the Human Voice,” will be
read.
The address of Dr. Gregor C. Wittig, the German editor of Psychic
Studies, is changed to Korneratrasse 2 B, Leipzig, Germany.
Me. Morse at Newcastle-on-Tyne.—On Sunday last, the 4th inst.,
Mr. J. J. Morse delivered two trance addresses in the Old Freemasons’
Hall, Newcastle-on-Tyne. In the afternoon the address had for its
subject, “Who are the Saviours of Humanity?” Mr. H. A. Kersey
presided. In the evening a crowded audience assembled to listen to a
trance address on “ The Greater Being.” Mr. J. Mould presided, and
the discourse was listened to with the utmost attention. The Newcastle
Society has reseated its hall throughout, adding thereby much to the
comfort of the audience. On Sunday next, February 11th, Mr. Morse
delivers a trance address in the Trades Hall, Glasgow, subject:
“ Spiritualism: an Analysis of its Present Position, a Criticism upon
its Opponents, and an Indication of its Future.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
J. Tyerman (Australia).—We had no knowledge that you wanted it.
“ A Spiritualist.”—Your letter would carry no weight, being anonymous.
Correspondents frequently keep news and newspapers till they are a week
old, then send them to us just before going to press, too late to be of ser¬
vice. Communications which arrive early in the week, have much the
best chancenf speedy publication.
Feb. 9, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Kepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting >nd well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
ani elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
BLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
boimd, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and-non-professional mediums ,:also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES GF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newlypublished book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen hy one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—‘ ‘Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not he taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, hut will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed hy those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium fight. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and iScience; the Spirit' and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
. 7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals twere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
' inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn hy the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information ahout
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com-
mumcatiou should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through,
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM.MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A- Danskin, 4s. 6d. -
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker ontSpiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary ■with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. ed.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s, 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles,
^s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles: 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, hy the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
hy Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEASr by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIESOFINFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6cL
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By 0. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s,
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical' considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. fid.) 4s.
Lately published, in two volumes, 8vo, cloth, price 28s.
PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE on the
NATURE and CONSTITUTION of MAN. By Gkorgb
G. Harris, LL.D., F.S.A., Barrister-at-law, Vice-President of
the Psychological Society, and of the Anthropological Institute
and Author of “The Theory of the Arts,’’“Civilisation con¬
sidered as a Science," &c.
This work embraces a comprehensive and complete survey
of the nature and constitution of man, physical, moral, and
intellectual, exhibiting, moreover, the mutual connection and
dependence of each branch. Topics connected with the
spiritual being, and the leading opinions on this subject,
including the nature, essence, properties, and mode of opera¬
tion of the soul; the alliance between matter and spirit;
reason and instinct, their affinity and diversity, more espe¬
cially, are here discussed; and a new theory is propounded of
our intellectual system, as ‘also respecting the distribution,
mode of action, ’discipline, and cultivation of the mental
faculties.
Eminent authorities on certain of the subjects here embraced,
among them some distinguished writers on psychology, physio¬
logy and natural history, foreign as well as English, have been
in correspondence with, and have been consulted by the
author, by several of whom valuable notes, which will be read
with much interest, on various and important controverted
points, have been contributed.
“The writer who undertakes a work like this, requires at
once a comprehensive intellect, a widespread reading and
experience, an unprejudiced mind, and almost superhuman
industry. All these qualities appear to be combined in Mr.
Harris."—Westminster Review.
“A treatise so ambitious and comprehensive in subject and
scope, demands great natural powers, immense research,
patient meditation, and assimilation of the labours of others.
All these requisites Mr. Harris brings to his task. His work
proves that a searching inquiry into man’s nature is alike
independent of two extremes, the negation of Atheism, and
theological intolerance, A perusal will lead every man of
faith to inquire more, and every man of science to believe
more.—Hour.
“ This work is one of considerable value, and of'deep interest.
Indeed, it is somewhat difficult to lay it down when you have
once become absorbed by its contents. We moreover venture
to assert that it is impossible to read a single chapter of the
book without being struck with the vast array of authorities,
ancient and modem, that have been read or consulted, the
wide and varied information sought or obtained, and the
original thought displayed in dealing with its deeply interesting
and abstruse objects of research.”—John Bull.
“Dr. Harris has evidently read the writings of both ancient
and modem anthropologists and philosophers with care; and
the work will , always be . valuable as indicative of deep re¬
search, and a sound, though diffuse, method of treating the
subject. Every quality and style of thought are represented
by the gentlemen who have contributed to the notes, which
range from the thoughs of Mr. Gladstone and Dr. Newman to
those of Sir John Lubbock.”—Public Opinion.
“This is a most elaborate and learned production, and
testifies on the. part of its author his immense research and
great ingenuity. It is, without the name, an Encyclopaedia
of man. Dr. Harris's work is very valuable as a great collec¬
tion of facts, most of them thoroughly sifted by himself, and
many of them having been subjected. to the correction of
acknowledged authorities.”—Dundee Advertiser*
“ The present work is the first attempt of the kind; and Dr.
Harris deserves praise for the origin and completion of his
most laborious performance. In these frivolous days, such
books and such authors are rare. Altogether, it is a produc¬
tion highly creditable to the intelligence and industry of the
author, and one which no one interested in the subject on
which he writes can read without profit.”—Literary World.
“We have probably quoted enough from this very thought¬
ful and suggestive work to. induce the many members of the
Institute who are interested in the psychological treatment of
the question, to seek pleasure and mstractibn in its pages.
Added value is given to it by the interesting circumstance
that the proof sheets of several portions were submitted to
learned friends of the author—such as Sir John Lubbock, Dr.
Richardson, Dr. Newman, and many others-—and have been
enriched by their comments.”—of the Anthropological
nstitute.
London : George Bell & SONS, York-street, Covent-garden.
By Royal Letters Patent.
“URINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. fid. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co.,'21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. JOHN R0DSE, 80, Gedrge-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Published at 78. fid. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,.;
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. fid. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office,
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Fjeb. 9, 1877.
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
Du. Slade, a stranger, from the United States, on his
journey to St. Petersburg, is, by an unfortunate sentence of a
magistrate, under condemnation to imprisonment, and punish¬
ment appropriate to a criminal is meted out to him. This
highly-gifted sensitive, the greatest medium of the day in
England, is condemned to “hard labour,” and will, in January,
1877, become the forced associate of criminals. Unless we
adopt some effectual means, nothing can prevent this out¬
rageous calamity.
The affair is not individual, but relates to all. The struggle
raised before the nation is between Materialism ana Spiritual¬
ism. A more important issue was never before us. Spiritual¬
ism demonstrates, through facts occurring around us, the
existence of a future life; while Materialism would deprive
humanity of the precious doctrine of immortality.
When we reflect that the proceedings aimed at Dr. Slade
are really designed more as a blow to the sacred cause of
Spiritualism than against him, shall Spiritualists stand by
and accept the verdict without remonstrance? Will they,
without appeal, suffer him, whom they consider innocent, to
bo imprisoned and punished as a felon without a struggle?
Assuredly not. Conscience being our witness, let us perform
what we know to be right.
The question is before us. According to the measure of
support so will be the power of the Committee, and their
ability for action.
Donations will be thankfully received by the joint treasurers
or by the secretary.
The Executive Committee.
Alexander Calder, 1, Hereford-
square, South Kensington, S.W.
/J. Enmore Jones, Enmore-park,
Honorary Treasurers, j q^Vtld, M.D., 12, Great Cum-
l. berland-place, W.
C. O. Massey.
W. S. Moses, M.A.
Hon. Sec.—A. Joy, 69, Great Bussell Street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
SUBSCRIPTIONS. & s. d.
The St. Petersburg Committee  50 0 0
Mr. G. C. Joad     30 0 0
Miss Douglas '       25 0 0
“Nicodemus”  25 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder   21 0 0
. „ J. N. T. Martheze     20 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn    20 0 0
•Countess Caithness    10 10 0
Mr. Martin Smith   10 10 0
„ Thomas Grant  10 10 0
Mr. W. Tebb   10 10 0
Miss H    10 10 0
Mrs. Weldon   10 0 0
Sir O. Isham, Bart  10 0 0
Mr. A. Tod     10 0 0
„ J. Bulteel    10 0 0
“ Lady Jane Grey ”   10 0 0
B. P. J.       10 0 0
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood  10 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe   10 0 0
Prince Emil von Wittgenstein   6 0 0
Mr. A. Joy   5 5 0
Mr. J. Enmore Jones    5 0 0
„ O. C. Massey  5 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   5 0 0
„ Douglas Bayley  5 0 0
■Oscar von Hoffman   5 0 0
Dr. George Wyld   5 0 0
Mr. T. E. Partridge   5 0 0
Mrs. Hennings    5 0 0
Mr. N. Kilbum, jun    5 0 0
Dr. S. T. Speer ....'   5 0 0
Mr. A. T. T. Peterson ...;    5 0 0
, “H.” ;..... :    5 o o
An American   1   .5 0 0
Mrs. Bird      5 0 0
A. v. H......:     5 0 0
Friends at Belper, per W. P. Adshead   3 11 0
Newcastle, per H. N. Kersey  3 10 0
Mrs. Strawbridge  3 3 0
Profit on Sale of Photographs   2 13 0
Mr. J. B. Stones   2 12 6
Mr. H. Withall       2 2 0
Captain James       2 2 0
M.A. (Oxon.)..;   •. ' 2 2 0
Mr. O. Pearson   2 2 0
Mr. W. P. Adshead     2 2 0
Mr. F. W. Percival       U 2 2 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun    2 2 , 0
Dr. J. Dixon     .'.  2 0 0
Mrs. Lowe  I..V....'.....  2 0 0
Mr. A. E. Wallace (   2 0 0
„ J. C. Ferguson   2 0 0
. “ Disciple ”    2 0 0
Mrs. Watkins   2 0 0
Mr. J. H. Gledetanes    2 0 0
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore     2 0 0
F. J. T. (collected)      12 6
Mr. Geo. Stones  110
„ J. Mould     110
Dr. K. Cook  110
K. G.         110
Friend to the Cause   1 1 0
Mrs. Maltby      110
Mr. C. Ward      110
„ E. D. Rogers      110
Morell Theobald  110
William Theobald.      110
Pi R. M. Theobald, M.D  110
„ H. N    110
„ J. Andre      110
„ James Brown     110
The Misses Withall   110
Dr. Baikie 1 f  110
Anon, per C. O. Massey   110
A. M. W, by Mr. J. Bums     110
Mr. T. P. Barkas      110
Mrs. J. Y. Vernon      110
Major Menars   10 0
Mr. Tucker  10 0
Mrs. S. Parker.  10 0
Miss Douglas Bayley     10 0
Mr. A. Smedley     10 0
., F. Smedley  10 0
“ D ” (Clericus)   10 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan  10 0
Mr. St. George Stock     1 0 0
„ C. Reimers      10 0
„ J. Walhouse.....  10 0
Scrutator ....l.l..  10 0
Smaller sums    8 10 6
Collected by Mr. J. Bums    2 7
Spiritualists' Defence Fund continued.
From America.
The following consists of amounts advertised as received by
The Banner ofLiyht newspaper, Boston, U.S., towards the “ Slade
Defence Fund,” up to the 13th Jan., of which £370 12s. 6d. has
already been remitted to England.
Colby and Rich (Publishers Banner Of Light), dols.
Boston ‘..  200,00
Epes Sargent, Esq., Boston     50,00
A. P. H. (a Spirit) ..; A./I.   25,00
Mrs. Mary M. Hardy, Boston.....  25,00
Henry J. Horn, N. Y. City......'     ’ 5,00
Jefferson Cutter, Medford, Mass  3,00
G. Sweet, N. Y. City..... i  2,00
Laac Gibbs, Springfield, Mass  5,00
Harvey Howes, North Bennington, Vt  5,00
John A. Day, Norfolk, Mass      2,00
H. E. Parsons, Ashtabula, 0  100,00
J. L. Donaldson, Boston, Mass  5 00
w. h. r   3,00
Ohas. Levy, St. Louis, Mo  2,00
A. Fuller, Waltham. Mass.v...  2,00
Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston   10,00
L. B. Wilson, Boston       3,00
F. A. Gould, Boston    10,00
G. H. Wooctis, Worcester  ,...: 2,00
Wm. Benson, Albany, N.Y  100,00
David Appleton, Lowell, Mass  100,00
Andrew Williams, Lawrence. Mass  100,00
James Codman, Worcester, Mass  100,00
Sarah Johnson, Worcester, Mass  100,00
Dr. Josiah Jordan, Springfield, Mass  5,00
Mrs. Louisa Andrews, Springfield, Mass.....’.. 5,00
E. Crowell, M.D., Brooklyn, N.Y. ..t  50,00
C. M. Burrett, New Haven, Ct 2,00
Geo. Stacy, Montreal, P. Q....„..   2,00
A. Burford, East Liverpool, Ohio  2,00
M. A. Giles    2,00
O. Giles    2,00
A Friend to the Cause  2,00
W. Y,, Philadelphia, Pa.  25,00
Joseph Wescott, No. Castine, Me  2,00
• Geo. W. Smith, Boston, Mass  20,00
J. DuBois, Everett, Pa ...'.  5,00
Mrs. A. O. Whittemore. blew Boston, Ct  3,00
L. K. Joslin, Providence, R. 1  3,00
Jas. T. Walton, Terre Haute, Ind ;  10,00
Chas.-P. Perot, Philadelphia, Pa  5,00
A Friend, Spencer, Mass  2,00
Henry Seyberts, Philadelphia, Pa  25,00
H. G. Wyte, Buffalo, N. T    2,00
Joseph Kinsey  5,00
Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Tucke 2L  3,00
Martin Hiscox, Providence, R. 1  2,00
Henry Rennan, W. Meriden, Conn    2,00
Henry Gildemeister, Bunker Hill, 111  2.00
“ A Liberal,” Greenville, Me  3,00
H. K. Morrill    2,00
Jos. P. Hazard, Peacedale, R. I     5,00
Dr. G.B. Brooklyn, N. Y  3,00
J. N.H., Peacedale, R. I.     25,00
Joseph Beals, Greenfield, Mass  2,00
Jas. Wilson, Bridgeport, Conn  5,00
F. R. Baker, Topeka, Kan  5,00
James Shackleton, Lawrence, Mass.  2,00
F. Hinckley, Barnstable, Mass  3,00
Warren S. Barlow, St. Johnsbury, Vt  5,00
Frederick Schroeder, Papineau, 111  2,50
Joseph Schroeder, ditto  5,00
Samue Robinson, Swansea, Mass  2,00
David A. Mundy, Rahway, N. J.      2,00
“ A Friend of. the Banner ”  50,00
J. W. Robins, M.D., Uxbridge. Mass  2,00
Mr. and Mrs. J. Roberts, Rush, N.Y  2,00
J. B, Angel, Red Bank, N. J    6,00
Lucy James, Danielsonville, Conn  6,85
Wm, A. Atkins, Provincetown, Mass   5,00
Mrs. Chas, Baldwin, Fayville, Mass  6,00
J. Mayo, Waltham, Mass.   '.. 2,00
A. M. Gaffield, ditto  2,00
Isaac and D. W. Wright, Harvard, Mass  2,00
Mrs. A. L. Pratt, New Haven, Conn  2,00
Samuel Smart, Willoughby, Ohio  2,00
Joseph Dimmock, Stonington, Conn  2,00
Robert Kerr Elliott, Live Oak, Fla   | 3,00
Jas. Lawrence, ditto   3,00
S. C. Moses, Mendota, 111  2,00
B. L. Wade, Jefferson, Ohio...  10,00 •
C. R. Brooklyn, N. Y  2,00
J. F. Hamilton, Berlin, Wis  2,00
E, Man, Litchfield, Mich  5,00
E, Nickerson, Burton Harbour, Mich  2,00
Calven Westover, Oxford, N. Y  10,00
Friends, Charlotte, Mich   2,50
S. G. N. Mifierton, N. Y  2,00
E. R. Whiting, New Haven, Conn    5,00
H. W. Ballard, Malone, N. Y  2,00
W. M. O., Philadelphia, Pa   5,00
B. Ellis, Plymouth, Mass...  2,00
S. H. Austin, Syracuse, W.Y    2,00
Jas. Thompson, Devonport, la  2,00
Levi P. Benjamin. Friendship, N.Y  2,00
Luther R. Ames, Worcester, Mass  2,00
Ansel Edwards, New Orleans, La    3,00
Thomas B. Watford, Philadelphia, Pa  2,00
J. L., New Jersey   2,00
Mrs. M. A. E. Green, W. Winfield, N.Y  5,00
Dr. J. S. Loucks, Potsdam, N.Y    2,00
Robert Rutherford, Rochester, N.Y  5,00
From One who Hates Persecution   10,00
J. D. Wheeler, Acton, Mass  2,00
Henry Miller, Sacramento, Cal  10,00
M. A. Britton, Santa Rosa, Cal.   2,00
Harvey Lyman, Springfield, Mass ,  2,00
James S. Draper, Wayland  2,00,
Isaac Snow, Boston, Mass    5,00
C. N. Lyme, Philadelphia, Pa  2,00
Mrs. Lavelette       5,00
Sundry persons     16,13 .
L. Elliott, Live Oak, Fla  2,50
Joseph Willoughby, Manchester, N.H  2,00
W. N. Choate, Jackson Mills, Mich  5,00
E. J. Kempton, New Bedford, Mass  2,00
Granville W. Lukens, Mt. Holly, N.J  2,00
Mrs. G.W. Keene, Lynn, Mass   ,. 5,00
Charles Chittenden, Boston, Mass  3,00
F. T. Houghton, San Francisco, Cal  2,00
P. A. Cornell, Central Village, Conn  2,00
Friends, New Britain, Conn   6,50
Friend of Religious Freedom, Dalton, Pa  2,00
S. Morton, Winslow, N.J  2,00
Lucius Bond, Dalton, N.H  2,00
I. L. Sage, Frankfort, Ky ..:  3,50
A. J. Kenney, Pana, 111    2,00
Mary S. Doty and 8. B. Smith, Peru, N.Y. ... 5,00,
Spiritualists' Defence Fund continued, dols.
Geo. Watt, Augusta, 111    2,00
Eben Snow, Cambridge, Mass  2,50
H. H. Ostrom, Alton, N.Y  2,00
Mrs. Sarah Compton, Hyde-park, Pa  3,00
A. A. Wheelock, in behalf of “The Progressive
Society of Spiritualists ” of Utica, N.Y.   30,00
A Lady Friend, Salem, Mass '.... 5,00
Friend, Medfield, Mass..    10,00
J. J: Miller,' Millerstown, Mo. '.   2,00
“Heliotrope,” Petaluma, Cal   5,00
W. V. Thompson, Pleasantville, Pa  2,00
F. A. Grove, M.D., Kirksville, Mo  2,00
E. Y. Johnson, Warren, R.I. Js  2,00
J. Bisby, Hamilton, Ont.  1  5,00
Jonathan Hatch, Easton, Me  2,00
Hugh Jones, Erie, Pa. .....Vi.....'  2,00
Addison Kelley, Kelley’s Island, Ohio    2,00
Mrs. E. R. Huntington, Kelley’s .Island, Ohio 2,00
Hiram Frank, W. Bangor, N.Y   2,00
I. S. Carter, San Bernardino, Cal.„...'..'..'.i..V.... 2,50
A Lady Friend, San Bernardino, Cal  5,00
S. A. Morse, Philadelphia, Pa  2,00
H.Anderman, New Philadelphia, Ohio   2,00
Thos. GaleS Forster, N.Y. City  25,00
Walter Byren      2,00
Nathaniel Esty, E. Westmoreland, N.H  2,00
J. A. Barnes, Olympia, W.T    5,00
Mrs. A. A. Fordtram, Brenham, Tex  2,00
Chas. Livingston  5,00
Hannah Ketcham, Laur, 111. ......V...    2,00
Sylvester Higgins, Bellevue, Mich.      2,00
Jno. M. Kennedy, Philadelphia, Pa  2,00
M. Bamberger, Piedmont, W. Va    2,00
Wm. S. Moore, Norwiehville, Ont  2,00
Levi Walker, Belleville, 0  2,00
E. Foster, South Bend, Ind  7,00
Mrs. T. J. Skidmore, Fredonia, N.Y  20,00
Friends, Waverly, N.Y  10,00
M. D. E., Philadelphia, Pa  5,00
J. S. M., „ „   5,00
C. Wilson, Alameda, Cal.....  10,00
H. J. Howell, Corsicana, Tex  5,00
Mrs. H. W. H. Brooklyn     5,00
Amos Fales, Carlton, N. B • .;.  2,00
John Bowen, Mobile, Ala    5,00
The Spirits controlling the Mary Hollis Circle,
St. Louis, Mo  80,00
Jas. Bell, Oxley, Ont  2,65
John D. Powers, Woodstock, Vt    2,00
C. H. Faxon, Charlestown, N. Y  2,00
Sums under two dols. (368 subs.)    335,05
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME:
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One dr
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for q. few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened:
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
A medium is usually a person of an impulsive, affectionate,
and genial nature,-, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Mediums are of both sexes.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and
all the members -of the circle are strongly bound together by
the affections, and are thoroughly comfortable and happy.
Family circles with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other
forms of mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appear¬
ance, while by sitting regularly two or three times a week the
manifestations will rapidly develops.
Among the varied phases of the phenomena already ob¬
served by investigators may be noted the following:—Move¬
ment of physical objects, both with and without contact with the
sitters ; direct writing, drawing, and voices; entrancement;
trance and inspirational utterance ; temporary materialisa¬
tions ; involuntary writing ; healing; visions; impressions;,
as well as many phenomena observed in the study of mesmer¬
ism and clairvoyance.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
