Registered as a Newspaper.]
f)^YdSoi<o^idSi(
#Itef toiffj S^tniwalbm m <§xmt §nfam.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: a, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale, LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-streeL SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: aas, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street.
No. 238.——(Vol, X.—-No, 11,) LONDON: FRIDAYj MARCH 16, 1877. ' Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
aramms.
Healing Diseases by Spirit Power    ... 121
The Cadaverous Odour Appertaining to Certain Spirits.
By the Rev. W. Whitear  122
Spiritualism: a Satanic Agency. By the Rev. 0. Maurice
Davies, D.D., Author of Unorthodox London 122
Dr. Forbes Winslow Called to Account:—Spiritualism
and Insanity   ...    123
Physical Science and Spiritual Psychology. By Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E....   124
A Remarkable Seance in Newcastle:—Wax Casts of the
Hands of a Temporarily Materialised Spirit Taken
under Test Conditions  ...  126
Private Seances., By William H. Harrison 126
A Memorial to Dr. Slade    127
The National Association of SpiritualistsMeeting of
the Council   127
Co^k-lane at Kensington ...  128
Spiritualism in St. Petersburg 128
A Trance Address:—Earth-bound and Haunting Spirits... 128
Correspondence:—Haunting Spirits—Art in Hospitals—
The Doctrines of Allan Kardee—A Parliamentary
Committee of Inquiry on the Working of the Lunacy
Laws—Organisation and Co-operation 129
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Conversazione
—Spirit Poetry, ” The Spirit Child” 130
British National Association of SpiritualistsInquirers'
Seances, By Algernon Joy, M.Inst.O.E..,, ... ... ... 182
The Oracle of Pei-tu-Ngan   132
Answers to Correspondents  ... ... 132
Paragraphs:—The Dalston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism, 123; An Exposer Exposed, 13L ; Passed
to the Higher Life, 131; Life in the Planets, 131; Lan¬
cashire District Spiritualists ...     ... 132
“THE SPIRITUALIST » NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
A oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
sts in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness isHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-flolmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. 0. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr.T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelina Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barnster-at-Law; C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. fionywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Cxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Bev. 0.
Maurice Davies. D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A„ LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ((United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia): and many other ladies and gentlemen..
Annual subscription to residents in the UnitedlKingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States,'4 dels. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of Inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for March, 1877.
Friday, 9th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6,30
p.m.
„ ' Committee’s Private Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Saturday, 10tt.—Trance Seance at 3 p.m. Mr. Colville,
medium.
Tuesday, 19th.—Correspondence Committee, at 8.45 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting, at 6.so p.m.
Friday, 16fA—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
„ Committee's Private Seance at 7.30 p.m.
Monday, 19th.—Library Committee at 7 p.m.
„ Fobtnightlt Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m.
Thursday, 22/itf.—Soiree Committee at 6 p.m.
„ House and Offices Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
„ Seance Committee, at 7 p.m.
SEANCES.
Seances for Inquirers are held every Thursday evening at 8
p.m. Seances for Members and Subscribers only every Tuesday
evening at 8 p.m. Tickets, 2s. 6d. Applications for tickets
must always he made in advance.
EASTER CLOSING.
The Offices at 38, Great Rnssell-street, will be closed for the
Easter Holidays on the 29th of March, and will re-open on
Monday, the 9t6 of April.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
SEANCES.
A new series of Free Circles for Inquirers, tickets for which
can he purchased by Members at a nominal charge, are now
held weekly, on Thursdays, at 38, Great Russell-street, ,at
8 p.m. precisely*
Private Seances for Members and Subscribers only are held
every Tuesday evening at 8 p.m. Tickets, 2s. 6d. each. Appli¬
cation for tickets must in all cases be made in advance.
E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
special notice;
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY MEETINGS.
The next Fortnightly Meeting of the British National
Association of Spiritualists will be held on Monday, March
19th, at 8 p.m. Subject:—“Probabilities of Inter-Planetary
Communication,” by W. H. Harrison.
The meetings are free to Members and their friends.
E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brxxton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any hooks and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
Medical mesmerism and galvan¬
ism.—professor ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years
established) attends patients, and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Camden-hill,
Kensington.
HEMATITE IRON ORE. .
CLAIRVOYANCE, the only Royal Road to
the Discovery of Mineral Deposits—vide Professor
Denton’s works. The Advertiser is desirous of a Capitalist to
join him in proving and developing a few good Royalties now
open. One already developed that success is certain. For
terms, &c.. address — Mr. John Kellett, Mount Pleasant,
Greenodd, Ulverstnoe.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff, Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
HENRY D. jSS; ESQ., M.R.L
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
t/ie Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
acts aflecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The tot Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the wgekly meetings and seances, Members of the
Association havelthe privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
formation of circles and conduct of seances,’’and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on appheation to the
honorary secretary. . • - •
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 8d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
OFFICE OF “LADIES’ DEBATING CLUB,
102, Bath Street, Glasgow.
RS. M. G. PARKER and other Ladies of
Club are prepared to Lecture on all the social reforms,
particularly the questions of human equality and temperance.
First-class pianists and vocalists. For terms apply to Mrs. M.
G. Parker.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE.—A com¬
plete set of this valuable work for sale, in 17 vols.—
1860—76. Eleven vols. bound half calf, marble edges; the
remaining six unbound. Price £5 5s. Address—S. B. Field,
p, Ampton-street, Gray’s-inn-road, W.O.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best hooks published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-huildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and-Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCR0FT, Manager.
ii
THE SPIKITUALIST.
March 16, 1877.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1. Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 82, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrlster-at-law, 98, Portland-place, W.
Rogers, E. D., Rose-vflla, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin It., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
vVason. James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W,
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 208, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen's-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle vue-terrace, Soutnsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. El, 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 84, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendlnning, A., 4, Castledlne-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
Strawbri'dge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 80, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.vV.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W. ,
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W. H
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Poste Restante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H,,l, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J, H. Andro. Mr. H. Cook.) Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A,
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipslc, Germany."
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L.Dltson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murrav Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 6, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
fRnnflgAl
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan,Esq., 30,Upper Gloueester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plaoe, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-plaoe, Boston, U.S.A.
Mi's. Hallock, 54, Denhign-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Unipn Spirite etMagnetlque. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
. Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. O. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 84, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
SociedadJEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1877.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—John Priest, Esq.
Secretary.-—I&x. Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Auditors.—Mr. Charlton and Mr. Chatham,
Truslebs.—Mx Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
James Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos¬
worthy, Mrs. Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Mr. Casson, Mr.
Davies, Mr. Foden, Mr. Fowler. Mr. Jones, Mr. A. Lament,
Mr. J. Lament, Mr. Norris, Mr. Richard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
L—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877.
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Bronte, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Olairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 8s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.O.
MRS. OLIYE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 8 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E,
1%/rDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
iYJL At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
MR. DE CAUX, Mesmeric Healer, and
Medical Galvinist, attends upon patients at their own
residence, or at his rooms—35, Alfred-street, Bedford-square,
Loridon, W.O.
MRS. KANE AT HOME Tuesdays, Thurs¬
days, and Saturdays from three to five o’clock.—34,
Guildford-street, Russell-square, London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 6. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
A LADY is desirous of joining a CIRCLE
in the neighbourhood of Bloomsbury. Letters to be
addressed for Q. W., care of Miss Kisliugbury, 38, Great
Russell-street.i
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, Close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &o. Address, “Spiritualist,’’ 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of- the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible In advance.
Manager—Mas. A. C. Burke
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EYIDENOE ON BOTH SIDES,
WHICH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin; Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. O. O. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. G. C. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Slade.—2Jd., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI¬
CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.; F. J. Theobald,
18, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
T> EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
JL SJ logiques, fondS par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Soditi
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., Ac. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office*, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
WANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the book and newspaper trade; by E. W.
Wallis, 15 St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E.
jl tl m jfijxrgr^ uf mb xS
Volume Tejh. Dumber Eleven.
LONDON. FRIDAY, MARCH 16th. 1877.
HEALING DISEASES BY SPIRIT POWER.
Supekabundant evidence exists of cures of diseases having
been rapidly effected by mesmerism, after all the powers of
the medical profession had failed. This by no means
implies any discredit to an intelligent body of men whose
untiring services are of such great value to the public, but
it raises the question why the making of passes over one
human being with the hands of another should result in
cures which cannot be effected by drugs.
One of the commonest of mesmeric lecture experiments is
that in which the operator sends a sensitive into a somnam¬
bulic sleep whereby community of sensation is established
between the two individuals. If the mesmerist then places
a peppermint drop in his mouth, the sensitive tastes it as
well as himself. If the hand of the operator is pricked with
a needle the sleeper also feels the pain, and so- on; thus it
is clear that some rapport is established between parts of
the body of the operator and similar parts of the body of the
subject. Bearing these circumstances in mind whilst con¬
sidering the question of the philosophy of healing, there is
manifestly a probability that if one of the organs of the body
of the sensitive is deficient in something necessary to health
—in some organic power necessary for its perfect action—
the relationship established with the same part of the body
of the mesmerist, causes the organ which is weakened or
diseased to absorb fresh life. Those who first try experiments
in mesmerism occasionally take some of the ailments of the
patients upon themselves, in consequence of not knowing—
as older operators do—how to throw off the influence. This
fact again bears out the statement just made, because if the
patient gains strength from one part of the body of the
operator, it is natural that the mesmerist should feel the
weakening effects.
Experiments in the Mesmeric Hospital proved that some
operators can heal diseases which other operators cannot.
Inside the spiritual movement there are two classes of
mesmeric operators ; the one consists of mesmerists pure and
simple, who work in the ordinary way by making passes, and
who are not mediums; these do a large amount of good;
they are usually persons of independent will and of a positive
turn of mind. The second class consists of healing mediums,
who are themselves sensitives, who sometimes pass into a
state of trance, who also when sitting at tables can some¬
times obtain some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism,
though ordinarily but in a feeble degree. These persons
seem to have some power superadded to that of the ordinary
mesmerist, and some of the cures effected by them are of the
most astounding nature. Here, for instance, are a few per¬
formed in England by Dr. Newton. When he was in this
country we followed him about for several weeks to ascertain
the truth in relation to his powers, and we authenticated the
following cases among scores of others at the time :—
“ 8, Upper Copland-street, Grove-road, St. John’s-wood.—To the
Editor of ‘ The Spiritualist?—Sir,—On behalf of Mr. G. Richards, of
58, Earl-street, Edgware-road, in reply to your note of the loth instant,
I beg to say it was entirely my persuasion that induced him to see
Dr. Newton, and I am glad to state that the relief he derived from the
treatment by that gentleman is permanent, and the cure effected is of a
very remarkable nature. It was a case of paralysis, he having been
afflicted by the same for three years, during which time he could not
close his hand, and very frequently the pains in his hand and arm were
such that to rest was quite impossible. He can now close his hand,
and has experienced no pain whatever since his treatment by Dr.
Newton. He has been under five medical gentlemen, to one of whom he
has shown his case since cured by Dr. Newton. He was very much
astonished, and also acknowledged his belief in the cure. Mr. Richards
wished me not to mention any names of the medical gentlemen in this
reply, as he is satisfied they did their best, and he earnestly requests
me to assure you that he shall ever be grateful to Dr. Newton for
the benefit he has derived by his visit to this country.—I am (on
behalf of Mr. G. Richards), very truly yours, John Tomlin.”
“18, Great James-street, Bedford-row.—To the Editor of1 The Spirit¬
ualist?—Sir,—In answer to your note of June 15th, I am happy to
say that I have not had a pain in my hip-joint since I was under
Dr. Newton. There’s still a weakness in the leg, arising, I think,
from the leaders in my leg being drawn up, and the leg is and has
been only about two-thirds the size of the left leg. As I told yon,
I have had the disease in it for five years, and it was still getting
worse. I am thankful that I went to Dr. Newton. I have been
under medical treatment by my family doctor, and I have been to
St. Bartholomew’s, King’s College, and Royal Free hospitals, and
never got any relief from the pain. Wishing Dr. Newton every success
in his good work, I am, yours respectfully, G. Huckle.”
Sarah Cole, 25, Warburton-road, London-fields. Nearly blind of
both eyes, and could only just see to dress her children. The cure is
permanent and complete; she can now thread needles and read news¬
papers. The doctors had previously told her that her complaint was
“ constitutional.” She had been treated at the Ophthalmic Hospital,
] Moorfields, and by Dr. Simmonds, of Hackney, but received no benefit.
! For ten months before seeing Dr. Newton her eyes had been growing
] worse; they were very much inflamed, and throbbed with pain inces¬
santly. Wore a sunshade when she went to Dr. Newton, because she
| could not bear the light. Dr. Newton cured her instantaneously, and in
walking home she had no pain, no inflammation, no dimness, no sun¬
shade. Her cure is obvious to all who know her. She says—“ This I
hnow, before I went to Dr. Newton I was nearly blind, but now I see.”
Her husband also attests the truth of these statements, and has sent us
his signature appended thereunto.
“ 285 Gray’s-inn-road.—To the Editor of ‘ The Spiritualist?—Sir,—In
answer to your desire to hear from me with relation to my experience
of Dr. Newton’s treatment for deafness, I beg to say my hearing is con¬
siderably improved in consequence of visiting Dr. Newton. As a proof,
I tried several times previously to visiting Dr. Newton to hear the
| ticking of my watch, but could not do so; but to my great surprise, and
no less satisfaction, ever since the doctor has treated me I have been
| able to do so. In conclusion, I would say my deafness is of twenty-five
| years’ standing, and I was a good deal sceptical as to getting any relief,
| and in all honesty I will say, though not cured, I am a good deal
I better, for which I am obliged to Dr. Newton.—Yours, most sincerely,
| John Palmer.”
W. Ashley, 5, Catherine-street, Liverpool, retired merchant, in rapid
consumption, given over by the doctors, who told his wife to be prepared
for his death at any moment. He had not been out of his bed for five
| months, and on Saturday, May 7th, burst a blood-vessel. On Sunday,
May 8th, Dr. Newtoh saw him, and in seven minutes brought him down
stairs in such good condition that he attended a public meeting the same
i j evening; next day went out for a walk, ate a meat dinner, and drank
1 i ale with it. Has since been examined with a stethoscope, and the
| j doctors say that his lungs are all right. He writes us:—“ Sir,—In reply
i; to your letter of yesterday respecting the cure by Dr. Newton, I can
I j only add that, so far as I am able to judge, the cure is a permanent one.
[! Some days ago I was examined by a medical man of standing in • this
II town (not my own medical attendant), who pronounced, after a careful
' i examination, the lungs all right. After this I think I need not add
|; more.—Respectfully yours, Wm. Ashley.”
[j Dr. Newton was a strange man. If anybody talked to
[ | him for more than five minutes, it commonly had the effect
11 of sending him to sleep, for which reason he kept a printed
! | placard upon the mantlepiece of the drawing-room of his
11 house at Haverstock-hill, requesting patients to go away
11 directly they had been treated, and not to remain to talk
[ | with him.
11 Some of the strong healing powers possessed by Dr.
' | Newton are to be found in the person of an English healing
i medium, Mr. Ashman, who, however, does not pass into
[j abnormal states with nearly so much readiness. One day,
I j when we called upon him, he showed us a drawer full of
II letters of thanks for the cures effected by him; many of
!| these certificates were from highly intelligent persons, of
I considerable social influence. For some years past the
II demand for Mr. Ashman’s services has been so large that
11 he has been obliged to keep several assistants, whom he has
11 trained up as experts in mesmeric healing.
j. Although the Mesmeric Infirmary founded by the late Dr.
| Elliotson is dead, and although, by means of the press and
j otherwise, little is heard nowadays of mesmeric healers,
! there are several at work in London, and, what is more,
|. they are usually fully occupied. The demand for mesmeric
[ treatment is much greater than is generally supposed. The
! Mesmeric Hospital failed because it could not pay the
| salaries of refined mesmerists; the persons who were regu¬
larly treated could not afford to pay to support the institu-
122
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 16, 1877.
tion, and those who could afford to pay could not get from
the hospital any operator calculated to altogether command
their respect.
In the orthodox medical profession the more violent
remedies and more terrible surgical operations have given
way to a milder regime, and there is a greater tendency to
use drugs or applications which act directly upon the brain and
nerve-centres which govern so many of the minor portions of
the machinery of the body. Mesmerism is a still further step
in an upward direction, and sometimes the thoughts and the
faith of the patient doubtless have something to do with
cure. Although Dr. Newton cured a cabman’s horse of the
staggers in the open street by passes, unaided of course by
the imagination of the patient, and although he cured some
persons who did not believe in him, we found while follow¬
ing him about and taking notes, that he was more successful
with those who came to him in pure and simple faith, than
with the fashionable and wealthy, who stared as they
would at a wild animal, at their medial doctor, who, it must
be admitted, had his peculiarities. Among these more in¬
telligent patients were a few whose better nature had not
been drowned by the artificialities of life, whose souls were
superior to their materialistic surroundings, and who could
recognise the deserts of the man and his mission beneath the
very unconventional and somewhat grotesque external appear¬
ances. The general principle appeared to be that persons
governed by true affections were most easily cured, and our
opinion is that people who lead lives true to their inner nature
and who unhesitatingly do the best they can at whatever self-
sacrifice under the conditions of life in which it has pleased
God to place them, are less subject to disease than others,
the body being the outcome, the external symbol, of the reality
—the immortal soul—within. Hereditary characteristics and
weaknesses, bodily, mental, and moral, cannot be entirely
overcome, but may to a certain extent be ameliorated if the
child strikes out a vigorous and independent upward spiritual
course when young. Probably half the diseases and afflictions
of children are due to unions not the result of true affec¬
tions, but of low motives, and the sufferers go forth as
jarring strings to do their part in the great drama of life,
where all should be harmony.
THE CADAVEROUS ODOUR APPERTAINING TO CERTAIN
SPIRITS.
BY THE KEY. W. WHITEAB.
In my communication on the cadaverous odour observed
by Mr. Tapp in the presence of certain spirits (see The
Spiritualist, Vol. X., p. 20), I gave an abstract of a some¬
what similar case from Baxter, and mentioned an impression
that it had been noticed elsewhere.
A correspondent has since referred me to The Spiritualist,
Vol. VIII., p. 281, where it is said that during the state
called by the Shakers passing from life to death and from
death to life, “ the vital functions are often to all appearance
completely suspended, and a horrible odour of death
emanates from the body though consciousness is in a measure
retained.” But there is this considerable difference in the
two cases. With the Shakers the fetor seems to proceed
from the body itself, as it sometimes does from the body
(not the breath) of lunatics, and when it is not a result of
personal uncleanliness.
The case in which a smell like that produced by putre¬
faction accompanies, or is in some way caused by, a spirit
manifesting itself at a distance from its yet living body, or
from a spirit after its total separation from the earthly body
are much more curious.
In Calmet’s Phantom World, Vol. I., p. 293, Melancthon
is given as the authority for a demon having appeared to
Luther, and that when he retired u he left the room infested
with a very bad smell which was perceptible for some days.”
Again, in Vol. II., p. 189, Calmet says : u A cure of the
diocese of Constance, named Bayer, writes me word that in
1728 ... he was disturbed ... by a spectre or an evil
genius in the form of a peasant . . . and stinking insup-
portably.” And u during three years he returned every day
towards four o’clock in the afternoon, and every night till
dawn of day.” He appeared in different forms, and was
often seen by <£ the beadle and other personages of the
II village* . . . The spectre emitted wherever he showed him-
I self an insupportable stench.”
A better attested case is that of the haunted cell in the
| prison of Weinsburg, a small town near Heilbronn, in
| Wurtemburg. It occurred in the year 1835, and an account
| of it was published by Dr. Kerner. An abstract of this
| account is given in Mrs. Crowe’s Nightside of Nature, 1st
j edition, Vol. II., pp. 197 to 232; or in the small edition
| pages 385 to 407. The bad smell is only mentioned inci-
| dentally as one of the phenomena observed. It was per-
| ceived by many different and unexceptionable witnesses
| whose descriptions of it contain some very strong expres-
| sions, of which the following are the chief: “ A strange
| mouldering, earthy smell;” “an indescribable odour of
| putrefaction;” “ the corpse-like odour.”' “ Then followed
| the feeling of a cool wind, and then the oppressive odour for
| which he [Dr. Sicherer] says he can find no comparison,
| and which almost took away his breath. . . . Simultaneously
| with the perception of this odour he saw a thick grey cloud
I of no defined shape near Eslinger’s bed. When this cloud
| disappeared the odour was no longer perceptible. It was a
| fine moonlight night, and there was light enough in the
| room to distinguish the beds, &c. The same phenomena
| occurred several times during the night.”
Some of the women were so affected by the odour that
i they vomited, and could not eat till they had taken an emetic.
| This shows that the effect lasted some hours, as the spirit
| only appeared in the night.
Of those who went to investigate the case some who were
I unable to see the figure perceived the bad smell, which
| certainly did not originate in the prison itself, for it acoom-
| panied the ghost when he appeared at Heilbronn.
This spirit, who was living upon earth in the year 1414,
■ seems to have been an unprincipled person.
Here, then, are several quite independent testimonies to a
very strange phenomenon, and if I meet with others I will
note them down.
This emission of a bad odour by bad spirits should be
studied in connection with that of the odour of sanctity and
other sweet perfumes treated of by M. A. (Oxon) in The
Spiritualist, Vol. VI., p. 10. Its careful and complete in¬
vestigation would probably lead to some very interesting
discoveries.
High-street, Hornsey, March 7th, 1877.
SPIRITUALISM: A SATANIC AGENCY.
BY THE BEY. C. MAUBICE DAVIES, D.D., AUTHOB OF “ UXOBTHODOX LONDON.”
I received this evening by post the March number of the
Charing Cross Magazine, an honour for which I was un¬
prepared, as I am not an amateur author anxious to con¬
tribute to that periodical, nor had I gone through the
previous ceremony, which is, I believe, de rigueur, of en¬
closing seven postage stamps for a specimen. I was not
long left in the dark, however, as to the intentions of the
sender; for a large cross was placed in the index against a
paper bearing the portentous title with which I have headed
this letter. Whether I am specially favoured in this respect,
or the serial is going the round of the clergy I do not know.
I know a little of Spiritualism, though, for I have been
examining it nearly twenty years, though I have not yet
ventured to set down my conclusions dogmatically as does
Mr. Thomas W. Greenwell, M.V.I., the author of the paper;
nor, had I done so and signed my name, should I have been
guilty of such an incongruity as to use the editorial “ we”
all through my lucubrations. But I have learnt a great
many new facts—shall I call them ?—from this essay. In
the first place “ this modern delusion is the demonolotry
(sie) of the ancients revived.” This may be true; but I
never heard of demonolotry before, and cannot guess what
it means; so let that pass. Then I read that “ the first
great work that appeared ” on the subject “ was that of
Judge Edmonds (s&), 1852,” and that this writer fancied he
received communications, among others, from “Sweden-
borgh” (sic), a name which is unfamiliar to me. Then,
again, l am informed by Mr. Greenwell that “ there has been
a gradual concensus (sic) of agreement amongst thinkers re¬
specting the abnormal nature of the phenomena.” I am
March 16, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
123
next initiated into the mystery that the Countess of Caith- |j
ness (p. 372) is of the masculine gender (p. 373, par. 3, I j
sub init:) ; and also, historically, that the orations of Mrs. | j
Tappan “were the first of the kind ever delivered in a j j
public hall in London.” I fancied I had heard Mrs. Emma |
Hardinge in a public hall several years before. i
Of course the Battle of Armageddon is brought well to !
the front in this article, and the end of the “ dispensation” !
is all but dated. I am quite willing to learn on all these j
recondite matters, for I am, as I said, but a humble inquirer, j
I must, however, confess that I demur to the assertion that j
Spiritualism of necessity renders its adherents heterodox, j
My “guide, philosopher, and friend” in this matter is that j
excellent gentleman Mr. S. C. Hall, and will Mr. Green well j
venture to say that the following sevenfold accusation of j |
heresy applies to this exemplary member of the Church of j j
England ? “ The negative doctrines or creed of this novel j !
worship . *.. may be summed up somewhat as follows :—
1. It denies the doctrine of the Trinity. j (!
2. It denies the fall, and consequent corruption of man. m
3. It rejects the Atonement. m
4. It denies the necessity of regeneration by the Holy Spirit. j
5. It denies the eternity of future punishment, and the existence of ! I
hell. ' j j
6. It rejects the doctrine of the resurrection, and the day of judg- j)j
ment. 1)
7. It ignores the existence of the Devil.” •
I come to the conclusion that, while I know comparatively | !
little of Spiritualism, the writer who thus sends me his
dogmatic assertions knows considerably less, and that his !
article falls into the not uncommon logical error of “proving j
too much.” If the facts set down by this writer are facts, j
the sooner they are established the better; but the only way j
to decide that is by personal observation, not by the ipse j
dixit of anybody—even a M.Y.I., whatever that may be.
Kensington, March 6th, 1877. ; (
DR. FORBES WINSLOW CALLED TO ACCOUNT. j
SPIRITUALISM AND INSANITT. )
| )
The following correspondence has been published in The Standard n
newspaper:— ! j
From “ The Standard" of March ‘6rd. j
Sir,—A statement published by you some time ago, on Dr. Forbes I j
Winslow’s authority, that in America many thousands of persons were 11 i
shut up in lunatic asylums on account of Spiritualism, has led to a very |)|
careful inquiry, the full particulars of which, if you wish, I will lay j j
before you. The results of the inquiry are these—that in America jj
there are under thirty thousand persons altogether in asylums, and m
that a direct investigation of the causes of their insanity shows that not ] \|
one hundred are reported as insane through Spiritualism. I ought I);
to say that this inquiry has been made by Dr. Crowell, who took m
the trouble to obtain information direct from the medical superintendents j (i
of asylums. The statement was serious, offensive, and altogether mis- ])
leading; and the commonest justice requires a publication of this denial j) |
and refutation by those papers that thought it proper to copy the state- Is!
ment from your columns. A Clergyman. j > I
London, March 2nd. —  j / j
From “ The Standard" of March §th. |>
Sir,—My attention has been drawn to a letter that appeared in your j j
issue of Saturday, in which reference is made to some particulars I j) j
furnished you relating to the increase of insanity in America, due to the j / j
pernicious influence of “ Spiritualism.” Your correspondent is in error U
on both points, and, before contradicting me in the manner he has done, 1)1
he should be prepared with well-substantiated facts. He says that in u
America the number of insane only amounts to 30,000. In 1870, when j(j
the last census was taken for the United States, there were found to be jj
44,148 lunatics, out of a population of 42,115,896, and since that year (]
the numbers have been gradually, but progressively increasing. I am | j |
unable to give your readers the precise statistical returns up to the I j |
present time, but the number of registered lunatics is nearer 50,000 | j |
than 30,000. Your correspondent has evidently obtained very old | |
statistics upon which to form his data. Again, he denies my assertion | j i
as to the thousands driven mad from “ Spiritualism.” In an article on Kj
“ Moral and Criminal Epidemics,” which appeared in one of our leading \)\
journals a few years ago, I read as follows:—“The spirit faith in jjl
America is computed to embrace two millions of believers, and hundreds | (I
of thousands in other lands, with twenty thousand mediums. It appears I j I
that these include men in all ranks of society, from the highest to the |)i
lowest. Many of the facts related imperatively demand that we should K
consider this as a delusion, not altogether an imposture, especially the j j |
consideration of the number who have gone insane on the subject. It is m
said that amongst the lunatics confined in public asylums in the United isj
States, there are 7,520 who have become so entirely owing to this jjj
‘ spirit faith.’ ” Since the above article appeared in print, I have been !(j
informed that the number of persons who have become insane from j(j
Spiritualism has considerably increased. In England, as I have on iji
previous occasions mentioned, it is a very frequent cause of lunacy. | j |
L. S. Forbes Winslow. i>j
23, Cavendish-square. ' i)(
From “ The Evening Standard ” of March Qth.
Sir,—Dr. Forbes Winslow complains that the statistics of “ spiritual¬
istic insanity ” in America, quoted by your correspondent, “ A Clergy¬
man,” are not “ well substantiated.” Let us see what authority Dr.
Winslow himself adduces for his startling statement of 10,000 driven
mad from Spiritualism in that country. It is an article in a newspaper
several years ago, which says that “ it is said ” that there are (were
then) 7,520 lunatics confined in the United States from this cause;
Dr. Winslow being “ informed 1 that the number has since considerably
increased. The “ Clergyman,” on the other hand, at least gives precise
and recent statistics, collected by a competent medical inquirer in
America. I venture to tell Dr. Winslow that any Spiritualist of
average honesty and intelligence would be ashamed to make a statement
upon the sort of evidence which appears to him and others sufficient
proof of any allegation tending to the prejudice and disparagement of
Spiritualism. The tendency of Spiritualism is far more to make men
truthful and candid than to drive them mad. C. C. Massey.
Temple, March 5th.
P.S.—Dr. Winslow might at least have given the name and date of
the newspaper he quotes. It might be interesting to examine the
context.
From “ The Standard" of March 7th.
Sir,—Dr. Winslow was loud and sensational in attack, he is singu¬
larly weak and vague in defence. He led us all to believe that his
10,000 insane Spiritualists were in asylums; and now, when faced with
the first-hand evidence that there are not 100, he rides off on vague
statements about lunatics in general, inside and outside of asylums.
Let us keep to the point. I enclose you a list of asylums in America
accounting for over 23,000 of the 30,000 in detention. This list shows
only 59 insane from Spiritualism, while 412 are reported insane from
religious excitement. It is only common sense to conclude that if in 58
asylums with over 23,000 lunatics only 59 are insane through Spirit¬
ualism, the number would be under 100 if we had information from the
remaining 29 with a little over 6,000 inmates; the 87 asylums and under
30,000 inmates accounting for all the detained lunatics in America.
Where, then, are Dr. Winslow’s 10,000 ? In reply to that he talks in
the vaguest possible way about “ I am informed,” and about an “ article ”
in “ one of the leading journals,” “ a few years ago.” And we are sup¬
posed to be insane enough to consider that an explanation. We have
found 100 out of his 10,000, and the only reliable sources of information
are exhausted. If Dr. Winslow has nothing better to refer us to
than “ I am informed ” and a vague “ article,” written by somebody,
somewhere, some years ago, I am afraid we shall have to consider him
somewhat in the light of a sucked orange. A Clergyman.
London, March 6.
From “The Standard" of March §th.
Sir,—It is not my intention to enter into a discussion with an
anonymous correspondent, especially if he is a clergyman and one weak
enough to believe in “ Spiritualism.” The statistics I forwarded to you
relative to insanity in America are taken from one of the G-overnment
reports, and compiled from the census of 1870, including the whole of the
United States, and are strictly according to published and well-substan¬
tiated data. L. S. Forbes Winslow.
27, Cavendish-sqnaro. ————
“The Lancet," the chief organ of the medical profession in this country,
says in its issue of March 10£/t
Dr. Lyttelton Forbes Winslow is accused of having overstated the
number of insane patients in the United States whose malady is alleged
to have been caused by “ Spiritualism.” He stated that there were
ten thousand cases of lunacy ascribed to this source. The assertion
was so manifestly preposterous, and evinced so little acquaintance with
the subject, that we did not deem it worth while to contradict it. The
trouble which has been taken to disprove the statement is surprising.
Everybody who read the announcement when it was made must have
felt that it would be held to be extravagant. It is perfectly well known
that the insane population of the United States, all told, scarcely
exceeds forty-five thousand. To allege that one in four or five of the
total number was a case of derangement due to Spiritualism, was to tax
credulity, and discredit an argument. Moreover, it must have occurred
to most readers that Dr. Lyttleton Forbes Winslow could not possibly
possess exclusive information on the subject upon which he was writing,
and as the astounding “ fact ” had not leaked out through any other
channel, it was natural to conclude that the author had been carried
away by his reasoning. The laborious refutation of the statement
which has been effected was unnecessary.
The Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.—On
Thursday evening last week, the ordinary monthly meeting of the
Council of the above Association was held at 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, London ; present—Mrs. A. Corner, Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr.
John Rouse, Mr. R. Pomeroy TredVen, and Mrs. M. Theresa Wood.
Letters of general interest were read from Mr. H. E. Francis (hon.
secretary to the Brixton Psychological Society), Mr. W. Gray, Mr. T. E.
Partridge, Mrs. Georgina Weldon, Mr. W. Town, Mr. James Burns,
and Mr. J. J. Morse. Presentations received since the last session of
the Council were accepted with a cordial vote of thanks to the donors,
viz., Mrs. Georgina Weldon and Professor Adolphe Didier. Letters of
resignation of membership from Messrs. A. Yaughan, J. McC. McL.
Glassford, and W. R. Monteath, were read and “ accepted with regret.”
Messrs. W. H. Atkins and Henry P. Inman were elected ordinary
members. Attention having been drawn to the subject of protective
measures against attacks at law, a sub-committee were appointed to
consider the matter and report.
124 THE (SPIRITUALIST. March 16, 1877.
PHYSICAL SCIENCE AND SPIBITUAL PSYCHOLOGY.*
BX DESMOND FITZ-GEBALD, M.S.XEL.E.
It is, I think, very necessary to explain that the MSS. which I have
headed with this title was written in continuation of the paper “On
Modern Science versus Ancient Philosophies,” which I had the honour
of reading at the last of these meetings, and which will be found |
printed in The Spiritualist of March 2, p. 100. This will account for
my present paper commencing in medias res. It may be said that it j
ends also in the same manner; and I must admit that I had no expecta- |
tation of being able to treat the subject exhaustively, or otherwise than ,
suggestively, within the time at my disposal. The subject will pro- j
bably be continued by others, if not by myself. I have confessedly
written on the present occasion somewhat in the spirit of an advocate
pleading the cause of a client whose title to high honour and considera¬
tion has on certain occasions been ignored. You will probably recog¬
nise in Dr. Carter Blake, the able advocate on the other side, that of i
Kyria Clio, a Greek lady, whose claims have, I think, been much over¬
rated. I intend to do my best for my own client, who is also my alma
mater; but at the same time I may admit the great importance of the
observations of Mr. Stainton-Moses, which you will find also recorded
on the page I have just mentioned. These will probably read to you as
a preliminary judicial summing up of the main questions at issue; and
I heartily agree at least with the concluding remark that “ In the purg¬
ing away of ancient error and of modern fallacy, and the widening and j
deepening of our spiritual perceptions, while we retain all the exactness j
of our scientific method of experiment, lies the via media we require.” j
To this I would append an equally pertinent observation of Mr. T. P. !
Barkas, viz., “ Much that in the early days of Greece and Rome was !
recognised as knowledge, was, in reality, little more than learned igno- i
ranee, the result of accepting the apparent as the real.”
I have taken those cases of gratuitous and inexcusable error in
ancient authorities which I could find to hand, but more or less striking
instances of the unscientific use of the imagination might perhaps be i \
found in the writings of almost every author of antiquity. And in !
regard to the voluminous works of the disciples of the Hermetic ['
philosophy—the enthusiastic perusal of which has been the starting- |'
point of many a modern chemist—it is not too much to say that their I \
characteristic is empty grandiloquence. In one of these works I j1
remember repeatedly meeting with the following sentence, which, doubt- |
less, I thought contained some deep as well as hidden meaning, Visitahis !
Interior a Terrce Jtectificando, Inveniesque Occultum Lapidem Veramque i
Medicinam If I was not a little disappointed to find that the first letter i
only of each word was intended to be taken, and that the word Vitriolum j i
was to be translated as green vitriol, or sulphate of iron, a substance of j1
which I could purchase a pennyworth at any drysalter’s. ||
Now, in ordinary life, if we find that a person is generally inaccurate | \
in his statements, addicted to the commingling of fancy with fact, and Ij
untrustworthy in his observations where these are susceptible of verifica- \ (
tion or disproof, we commonly attach but little importance to what he ! <
may write or say, in relation to any particular subject. Most of us, I j j
think, are, to some extent, under the influence of a prepossession in |
favour of all that belongs to “ hoar antiquity ”; more or less laudatores I
temporis acti; we underrate the great intellectual advances which have !
been made within a very recent period, and which, by clearing the mental j
atmosphere, have rendered possible further progress in many directions, i
In defiance of this feeling of prepossession, I would apply to those |
writers of antiquity who can be convicted of general inaccuracy of j
statement the same rule that we act upon in relation to our contem- j
poraries. i
But, in relation even to those ancient authorities who might possibly j
be shown to be generally truthful and aesurate in their writings, there is s
another consideration which tends, by comparison, to give a very j
secondary value to their observations, at least in the domain of natural j
science, as distinguished from mathematical and metaphysical science, [j
And here I would pause to observe, first, that Spiritualists are foremost * ij
in denying the existence of the supernatural; secondly, .that the phe- |
nomena of Spiritualism must therefore be relegated by them to the i)
domain of natural science, whilst, as I propose to show, some of these j
phenomena are most closely related even to physics; and, thirdly, that |j
we are witnessing the birth of a new branch of natural science, which j j
may be termed Spiritual Psychology. To continue, the present i
century is that which, in the completed verification (and I think also in i
the actual inception) of two discoveries of incomparable importance, has j
witnessed the emergence of human intelligence from the dimmest twi- j j
light into the full light of day, from infancy to growing manhood, in j
relation to the interpretation of the great Book of Nature. I will name |
these great discoveries, in which multitudinous discoveries are summed !)
up—the Conservation of Matter and the Conservation of Energy. It is :
impossible to gauge the effect that these discoveries must have directly i
and indirectly in the combat of truth against error, of fact against j S
dogma, of enlightenment against bigotry. They have altered, they |j
are insensibly altering, all our notions, the tendencies of our thought, the j
mental atmosphere in which we live. We could not now revert to the | \
modes and habits of thought of our infancy.
I will endeavour—albeit of necessity, very briefly and imperfectly—t d j j
illustrate the purport of these discoveries. I have here a small quantity \l
of cotton which has been treated with nitric acid, according to the pro- |)
cess of Schonbein, who termed the product “guncotton.” It is com- |j
posed of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen, combined in certain i l
proportions which are accurately known. The original cotton was com- ;)
posed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen only. I need hardly observe ij
that the accurate knowledge we possess of the chemical composition of j j
* A paper read at the last of the fortnightly meetings of the National Association of i)
Spiritualists, at 38. Great Russell-street, London. j)
t “ Thou shalt visit the inner parts of the earth, rectifying, and thou shalt find the Hidden | (
Stone and the True Medicine,’1 1 (
all substances ordinarily met with is entirely of modern date. The
ancients had no conception of the real nature of the bodies with which
they were surrounded. I will pass on to the question—How was the
cotton originally produced, in the plant from which it was taken 1 By
growth! Yes; but whence were the materials derived ? We must get
beyond the ideas of “ Topsy ” and of the ancients, in relation to this
expression. To them growth was a true creation, or a complete mystery.
At one time there was no cotton in the plant; at another it was burst¬
ing from its pods; and yet there was no cotton, either in the earth or in
the air, from which the plant could obtain its supply. We now know it
to be a law of nature, to which we can observe no trace of exception,
that any new form of matter must be derived from other forms of matter,
and that the plant builds up its cellulin with carbon, obtained by the
decomposition of carbonic acid within the leaf, through the agency of
the actinic rays of the sun, and with hydrogen and oxygen obtained from
water.
How the energies of nature come to be uniformly directed in this par¬
ticular way by this particular plant is a question which has been left for
modern psychology to answer.
But I now place a little of the cotton in the palm of my hand, and
raise the temperature of one corner of it by means of this incandescent
fragment of wood. With a flash it suddenly and completely disappears.
Yet this was solid ponderable matter. What has become of it P From
the point of view of the ancients we have here a mysterious annihilation,
as in the former case we had a mysterious creation of matter. We now
know that the whole of the carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen, of
which the gun-cotton was composed, exists in the atmosphere of the
room; and if the products of combustion had been collected, these
elements could be separated, and their aggregate weight would be exactly
that of the gun-cotton consumed.
We have now to observe that in the latter there was something stored
up besides the material elements which have been mentioned. This
something, very real, although essentially imponderable and immaterial,
is energy. By expending this energy in a particular direction I could—
with a very small, but essential, expenditure of some initiatory energy--
have sent a bullet through a two-inch plank, or a human being. Here we are
already on the confines of psychology, pneumatology and moral science;
for upon the direction we give to the physical energies at our command, is
dependent our well-being here and hereafter; and the expenditure of
initiatory energy, to which I have referred, cannot take place so long as
the brain is normally related to the spiritual portion of our being in
which the will resides, without informing us of the nature of our action
and investing us with its responsibility. But before we pass these
boundaries, it may be useful, in continuation of our present subject-
matter, to obtain an accurate idea of the nature of Force, Work, and
Energy, from the point of view of physical Dynamics.
The term force, which is very frequently used in an inaccurate sense,
should always be synonymous with pressure or pull. Forces are
measured by the velocities they are capable of communicating, when
unopposed, to a unit mass in unit time. Dynamical forces, or forces pro¬
ducing motion, may sometimes be conveniently measured, according to
the following definition of work, by the ratio of the latter to space moved
through by the body through which the force is applied.
I have here a rope passing over a pulley, and attached at one end to
a mass of 28 lbs.—commonly but inaccurately termed a weight of
28 lbs. I apply a certain force or pressure (F) to the other end of the
rope, and the mass is moved upwards; its weight, or the force of attrac¬
tion (f) between it and the mass of the earth, being overcome through
a certain space (S). My hand, through which the force was applied,
moved, I will suppose, through a space of five feet, which we will call s.
The work done (W) is measured by the product of F x s, or of f x S.
If we call the weight of the mass 28 lbs.—which is commonly done,
although the same mass may have different weights at different places—
then W = fx S = 28 x 5 — 140 foot-pounds; the foot-pound, or one
pound raised through one foot, being our unit of work. Note that F
must necessarily be greater than f, for otherwise the former could not
overcome the latter, and that S must therefore necessarily be greater
than s. The reason of this is that energy becomes stored up in the
moving mass, and is expended, after the application of the dynamical
force has ceased, in raising the mass through the space S—s. This
leads us to the definition of energy, of which there are three forms—the
potential, the visible or kinetic, and the calorific. Energy is capacity
for doing work. By falling through the space of five feet the mass of
28 lbs. would be capable of doing exactly 140 foot-pounds of work, or
140 foot-pounds of potential energy has been stored up in it. If I let
the rope slip through the pulley, the mass, as it loses its potential
energy, will obtain the same kind of energy that is stored up in a
moving railway train or cannon ball, viz.—energy of motion, or kinetic
energy. By means of a series of equations, which I will not inflict
upon you, it can be shown that the kinetic energy, in foot-pounds, stored
up in a moving body, must always be the product of the mass into the
square of the velocity, divided by 64-38 (or twice the force of gravity
measured by the velocity it would give in one second to a falling mass).
Now the velocity which will be obtained by the mass of 28 lbs. by falling
through five feet will be 17’94 per second; and with this datum you
may calculate the kinetic energy that would be stored up in the mass by
the time it reached the ground. This will be 140 foot-pounds, or the
same as the potential energy. The mass is still capable of doing 140
foot-pounds of work. In the same way you may calculate the kinetic
energy of the projectile, weighing 2,000 lbs., and travelling with the
initial velocity of 1,493 feet per second, from the 100-ton gun recently
manufactured by Sir W. Armstrong for the Italian Government (viz., over
30,913 foot-tons') or that of a railway train in motion. What is correctly
termed power is the quantity of energy that can be exerted in a given
time, or energy divided by time.
But suppose I allow the mass to fall and strike the ground—that the
projectile strikes an iron target and is arrested, or that the railway train
March 16, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
12d
“ telescopes ” with another, and is similarly brought to a standstill—what i)
becomes of the energy ? Or, suppose a man to work for an hour in j
churning water, what becomes of the 396,000 foot-pounds of work which j
he can do in this time 1 Until comparatively recently, this question j
could not be answered—the work seemed to be lost, the energy to i
become annihilated. But the principle of the conservation of energy i
asserts that energy is as indestructible as matter—that the sum of the ] ]
potential and the actual energies in the universe has never diminished ! j
by one foot-grain. We now know that in the cases supposed the energy j
and the work are converted into heat, which is another form of j(
energy, in which the motion of masses is transformed into the motion of j
molecules. And Joule has experimentally shown that, by the expenditure !
of 7 72 foot-pounds of work, the temperature of one lb. avoirdupois of water j
becomes raised by one deg. Fahrenheit, and that, conversely, the heat \ j
that will raise the temperature of one lb. of water by one deg., is capable !)
of doing 772 foot-pounds of work. So that our mass of 28 lbs., on j
striking the ground, would generate sufficient heat to raise the tempera- ! S
ture of nearly three ozs. of water by one deg. Fahrenheit. j
The energy stored up in the gun-cotton, which was ignited, was j
similarly converted into heat by the falling together of the molecules of i j
carbon and oxygen to form carbonic anhydride, and of hydrogen and I)
oxygen to form water, for work can be done upon molecules as well as j
upon masses. I have in my laboratory a machine—a magneto-electric j |
machine—by means of which, by expending through it muscular energy H
generated by the falling together of respired oxygen and of carbonaceous j)
and nitrogenous molecules in the animal system, I can draw asunder j |
the atoms of oxygen and the molecules of hydrogen which constitute !<
water. In this compound the elements are united by a very powerful j (
attraction, and it has taken about twenty minutes of hard work to pull i)
asunder the constituents of about two grains of water, which, in their j(
gaseous form, are contained in this bottle. A considerable proportion of i
the energy I expended is now stored up in the separated oxygen and i)
hydrogen, the remainder was converted into heat in overcoming friction in | j
the machine. I will now, by raising the temperature of a small portion ; j
of the gas, cause the whole of the molecules to fall together. The j
potential energy stored up in the separated molecules will then take the j
form of heat, which, by expanding the two drops of reconstituted water |j
to more than 2,000 times the volume they Would occupy in the fluid |
state, produces a considerable concussion of the air.
We see by these examples that physical work is done in overcoming j
the attractions which exist between masses or between molecules, whilst j
potential energy consists in the attractions which have been overcome
by work, and which are thus capable of acting to produce motion through j)
a certain space; kinetic energy in the motion of masses; and heat |
energy in the motion of atoms or molecules. !
But, it may be asked, what has all this to do with Spiritualism, or ]
spiritual psychology ? This is a question which I must now attempt to
answer. In the first place, the terms “ force ” and “ power,” used in the j
sense of energy, are continually employed in reference to “mediums,” i
and to the physical and other phenomena occurring at spiritual seances. |
Secondly, it is desirable that Spiritualists should be able to meet the jj
materialist upon his own ground; and for my part I would wish us all to j (
be better acquainted with mechanical dynamics than are the majority of 11
our opponents. Thirdly, Spiritualists are called upon to add to the |(
links of a chain in which matter and energy alone are insufficient to j
connect causation with effect where the act of a human being is involved, i
Fourthly, there are in nature not only distinctive differences, but great S
analogies, such as those which are to be traced between the various i
classes in the animal and vegetable kingdoms, and that stupendous I
one which exists between the atomic constitution of the smallest mass
of matter and the construction of planetary systems and suns revolving
round their central suns. And, in connection with spiritual psychology, j
it is most probable that an analogy will be found $orrelating psychical
with mechanical dynamics.
More specific answers can be given to this question. One of the
commonest of the phenomena occurring at dark seances is the raising of j
ponderable bodies, such as hand-bells or musical boxes, which, whilst
ringing or playing, are moved round the room with considerable
velocity, often accompanied with a “spirit-light,” which renders the
movement evident to at least two senses at once. This phenomenon [
has occurred in my presence considerably more than a dozen times, j
whilst the hands of every sitter were accounted for: it is probably so i
familiar to most of those present, as to render it quite unnecessary for |
me to give details in verification of it. I may mention, however, that
at the seance of the Research Committee of this Association, on Friday
last, a candlestick, which was on the mantel when the gas was ex¬
tinguished, and which was far beyond the reach of any of the sitters, j
was conveyed during the seance to the table upon which all hands were
maintained in contact; that at my house the knocking of a guitar
against the ceiling, under undeniable test conditions, was noticed by
a person in the room overhead; and that on another occasion, when the
light was imperfectly excluded at an impromptu seance at my home, a
heavy musical box was distinctly seen, both by my daughter and by a j
friend on whose faculties of observation I can entirely depend, floating,
apparently unsupported, in the air. Here we clearly have force of some
kind involved, energy of some kind converted into ordinary mechanical
work, and work converted into kinetic energy, by an accidental demon¬
stration certainly not due to any of the sitters, and which, I am pleased
to say, is of rare occurrence at seances. I once had my forehead
slightly cut with the edge of a hand-bell, which, with a light attached to
it, had been gyrating about the room and over the table.
Now the force here exerted cannot be considered otherwise than as
either a pressure or a pull; and we shall be on safe scientific ground if,
in accordance with the general physical law, we ascribe the energy
primarily exerted to “ attractions which have been overcome by work,
and which are thus capable of acting to produce motion.”
But are these attractions necessarily those which act between masses |
or molecules ? Are there not rather insuperable difficulties in con¬
ceiving that physical energies alone are involved in these phenomena,
and valid grounds for inferring the existence of other modes of energy
which belong to the province of psychology ? Is the existence of a
“ spiritual body,” the soul, which—to use the expression of Justin
Martyr—is “the house of the spirit,” having for its own house the
physical body, in our days, and to us, a mere hypothesis, not susceptible
of any verification ? The negative psychology of the materialist refers
all the phenomena of our being to matter and physical energy; but are
these data sufficient; will they even explain the phenomena of voluntary
action, independent of any instinctive necessity ? These are questions
we have to answer. I will endeavour to contribute towards their
solution.
Before proceeding to consider the rationale of the voluntary pro¬
duction of mechanical effect, I will note a few apparently disconnected
common-place observations.
(a.) On two occasions, after very sxiccessful seances, I have seen the
medium Williams fall down apparently exhausted, having lost all power
of voluntary motion. Yet he had done no mechanical work; and, on
inquiry as to the length of time since he had taken and digested food,
I could find no reason to believe that his body was otherwise than well
supplied with carbonaceous and nitrogenous compounds, the oxidation
of which produces mechanical energy. Neither had he been respiring
a vitiated atmosphere; and his breathing was full and regular.
(&.) In my own case I have observed that, when I have simple
mechanical work only to do, the simplest food suffices to maintain health
and energy. But when I have any difficult mental work, or complicated
mechanical work, requiring a great many changes in the direction of
physical energy, I require stimulating food of higher nutritive value.
In simple mechanical work, an average man can easily do 300,000
foot-pounds of work per hour for five or six hours continuously. In
playing a piano, the same man can do but a small fraction of this
quantity of mechanical work per hour, yet he becomes exhausted in a
less time, more especially if the pieces he has to play are not familiar
to him.
(c.) I have known men whose habit it was to consume large quantities
of nutritive food every day, whose bodies were consequently replete
with oxidable compounds, and whose respiration was normally active.
Yet some of these men were capable of doing but a small fraction of the
work done by others whose systems were much less adequately supplied
with these compounds.
{d.) I have observed that exhaustion from over exertion has some¬
times been almost immediately remedied, and the capacity for work
recovered for a considerable space of time, by taking merely a cup of
tea, the nutritive value of which is very small. And I have been assured
that highly nutritious food, even if readily digested, would not in these
cases have had the same restorative effect.
(e.) There are some drugs which stimulate the muscles to increased
action, and others which have the contrary effect. The increased action
does not in all cases appear to be attended with a subsequent correspond¬
ing exhaustion of mechanical or other energy.
(/.) After mesmerising a subject I have sometimes felt much exhausted
and incapacitated for muscular exertion; yet the quantity of mechanical
energy I expended was insignificant. My “ subject ” generally felt
refreshed and strengthened. I have frequently experienced the same
feeling of exhaustion after a seance. Mr. C. F. Varley has stated that
he suffers so much from the same exhaustion that he cannot take part in
a seance, or even sit in proximity to a medium.
(y.) There is a vast amount of evidence in support of the conclusion
that, immediately after what is called death, excepting when this occurs
from the gradual and normal decay of the bodily frame, the released
spirit can readily render itself visible, as an apparently materialised
form, to some amongst those persons whom it has known whilst in the
flesh. Whereas, at any considerable period alter death, the same spirit
can “ materialise ” in the presence only of a powerful physical medium,
and even then only with great difficulty.
These observations, with the exception of the last (which suggests
that, as might have been expected, the constitution and powers of the
“ spiritual body ” vary at different times), all point to the conclusion that
psychic energy, as well as mechanical energy, is supplied by the food
we take into the system, and of which certain constituents are stored
up in it; that both these modes of energy are expended in the produc¬
tion of dynamic effects through the intermediary of the organism; and
that the relative quantities of each, collected or expended, may vary in
different individuals and in the same individual at different periods.
About this question of the necessary expenditure, in the production of
voluntary motion, of a form of energy—psychic energy—which cannot
be wholly included in the domain of physics, lies the field of battle
between the Spiritualist and the materialist. The latter may assume,
and boldly maintain, that will is merely a property possessed by matter
in particular conditions of combination and aggregation, that, in fact,
matter may influence itself as it pleases, and the Spiritualist can but
look upon this assumption with wondering pity. But in recognising the
existence, in connection with the animal organism, of modes of energy
which cannot be referred to attractions between material and ponderable
masses or molecules, nor even to attractions existing between an im¬
ponderable and a ponderable element, the materialist would be forced to
take the first step towards the doctrine of the tripartite nature of man.
In electrical energy we have an example of the overcoming of a force
acting between common ponderable matter and an imponderable
element; for in 1868 I demonstrated the fact that electricity can be
regarded neither as a force nor as a mode of energy, and, more recently,
Prof. Clerk Maxwell has given a mathematical demonstration of the
same proposition. If electricity be neither a force nor energy, it must
be regarded as a form of matter, unless indeed we refer it to the category
of psychical principles.
Let us now consider the voluntary production of mechanical effect.
126 THE SPIRITUALIST. March 16, 1877.
tracing it from work done, and potential energy stored up in a mass, to
the primary impulse of the will. With a certain object in view, I
desire, or will, to raise a mass of lOlbs., through the space of three
feet, from the floor to the table. If in this action there were any re¬
sponsibility—any guilt—my brain would inform me of it before my arm
could act. I connect my hand and arm with the mass, and raise them
with it—doing rather more than 30 foot-pounds of work. Here we have
will acting indirectly upon matter. Indirectly, because the proximate
cause of the effect is the contraction of the muscles of my arm.
Indirectly, again, because the proximate cause of this contraction may
clearly be traced to the conversion into energy of a certain quantity of
potential work stored up in the chemical constituents of muscle and
blood—in molecules' which have fallen together and become effete, or
unfit to take part again in the dynamics of life, and which will be
removed from the organism and returned to the soil, to be revitalised in
the growing plant through the agency and energies of solar light, heat,
and actinism. But whence the initiatory energy which gives to the
mechanical energy precisely the desired and requisite direction ? Or
does will act directly upon the energies stored up in living muscle ?
Here the physiologist points to the excito-motory or efferent nerve-
fibres connecting the muscle with the brain, and shows that, if these be
severed, the will can no longer produce, or relax, the muscular contrac¬
tion. But, again, does will act directly upon the nerve fibres, extending,
like telegraph wires, between muscle and brain ? We have no grounds
for the assumption that will can act directly upon any form of ponder¬
able matter; the negative experimental evidence renders this assumption
impossible. To the materialist the chain is here broken—granting him
even his assumption that will is a property of matter, the causation is
incomplete. But the Spiritualist and spiritual psychologist, knowing
that will is the active faculty of spirit, and that spirit acts through a
spiritual body or soul, requires only to admit, on very adequate grounds,
the existence of psychical energies in this spiritual body, corresponding
with, and analogous to, the mechanical energies of the material body,
in order to make the chain complete, and to link will with voluntary
mechanical effect.
A REMARKABLE SEANCE IN NEWCASTLE.
WAX CASTS OF THE HANDS OF A TEMPORARILY MATERIALISED SPIRIT TAKEN
UNDER TEST CONDITIONS.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist?'
Sir,—I would take it as a great favour if you would
kindly give space in your valuable paper for the record of
what to me appears to be the most extraordinary and satis¬
factory seance it has been my fortune to attend, during an
unflagging investigation for a period of four years, of the
phenomena of modern Spiritualism. It was my high pri¬
vilege, with other of my friends, to attend, on Friday
evening, the 2nd inst., one of the seances specially held for
investigators on Friday evenings, weekly, in the rooms of
the Society of Spiritualists, Newcastle-on-Tyne, Miss Annie
Fairlamb, medium.
On entering the ante-room, we found the president, Mr.
Armstrong, busy melting paraffin wax in a foot-bath, three
parts full of hot water. It had been promised on a previous
occasion, when trying an experiment for moulds in wax,
that if we would repeat the experiment, “ Minnie,” one of
Miss Fairlamb’s guides, would try and give us some moulds
of her hands. When the wax was thoroughly melted, the
foot-bath was placed within, and at the extreme end of the
cabinet in the seance-room, alongside another foot-bath,
partly filled with clean cold Water.
The cabinet is formed by green baize curtains suspended
from a point in the wall of the room, which fall over a
semi-circular iron rod of iron, also secured to the wall, and
thereby forming something approaching a tent. Before the
curtains forming the cabinet were finally closed, Mr. Arm¬
strong requested us to state the conditions we required the
medium to sit under, upon which I proposed that the
medium should enter the cabinet, and gave my reasons for
making the proposition, but to this Miss Fairlamb objected
stating that if she entered the cabinet we should have no
reasonable or satisfactory test as to the genuineness of the
phenomena that might occur. It was then suggested by
Mr. Armstrong (to meet my objections) that a baize curtain
forming part of the cabinet, but absolutely distinct, and not
interfering with the curtains excluding the light therefrom,
should be thrown over the head and shoulders of the medium,
to protect her head from the action of the light. The curtain
only rested on the back part of her head and shoulders, and
did not in any way cut her off from the view of the sitters,
four of whom had a clear and distinct view of the space
between the medium and the cabinet. She was instantly
controlled by one of her guides, who objected to this also,
and before they would proceed with the seance I was re¬
quested to draw my chair close up to that of the medium,
I who was seated in an arm-chair about two feet from and im-
I mediately in front of the cabinet. I was also requested to
| hold both her hands, and the gentleman who was sitting
| next to me had instructions to draw his chair near to that
j on which I was seated, and lay his hands upon my shoul-
| ders ; thus we sat during the seance, under the above con-
I ditions, in a very good light.
II After the above arrangement had been made we were re-
[| quested to sing, and had no sooner commenced, than we
j heard a splashing of water inside the cabinet. We continued
! | singing and conversing alternately, until requested to open
j the curtains of the cabinet. On the curtains being drawn
aside, we discovered that the bath, in which the wax was held,
| had been removed from the extreme end to the centre of the
cabinet, and at the side of the bath, upon the floor, lay two
| beautiful wax moulds of the right and left hands of Minnie,
| the chief guide of Miss Fairlamb.
I can vouch that Miss Fairlamb was never inside the
| cabinet, or nearer to it, before, or during the seance, than I
have already stated. She was indeed under very close obser-
| vation from the time she entered the stance room.
Before coming to the seance, Miss Fairlamb had been in my
| company, and under my personal observation for about three
j hours, walked a distance of about three miles to town in my
I company, and barely arrived at the rooms at the appointed
| hour for the seance. I wonder what theory Dr. Carpenter,
| the great scientific expert, with all his boasted knowledge of
| spiritual phenomena, will invent, to explain such evidence
I of spirit power, as the above. Thomas Ashton.
! 8, Rutherford-terrace, Byker, Newcastle-on-Tyne, March 6th, 1877.
j PRIVATE SEANCES.
j J BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
j Last Saturday night I was present at a private seance
l ] at the West End of London, at which Mr. W. Eglinton was
j j the medium. He had never entered the house before, and
j j the majority of those present were strangers to him. He
| ] requested that two of the greatest disbelievers, who had
| | never been to a seance before in their lives, should sit on
| | either side of him and hold his hands, as the seance was to
! j go on in the dark. This plan was carried out, and Mr.
| | Eglinton was held by two army officers. Raps came, and
| | the communicating intelligence ordered one of the officers
| | holding Mr. Eglinton to give up his seat to the lady of the
u house, who, during the remainder of the sitting, held his
| | hand on that side. All the time the light was out the whole
jj of the sitters sat with their hands interlinked. Under these
| | conditions bells and other small articles on the table went
| ! up in the air, and were shaken violently over the heads of
j | the sitters. A gentle noise was heard, causing one or two
| | to remark that they thought something had been placed on
| I the top of the table. When the light was struck, a little
j | table was found standing on the top of the large on eround
I I which the sitters were placed, and it must have passed over
| | some of their heads to get there. It was a heavy little
! table, with a marble top, and plenty of metal work about it;
| i it had been purposely constructed of unusual weight, in
j I order that it might not be easily overthrown, as it was
j I chiefly used as a stand for one of the drawing-room paraffin
j | lamps. When the sitting began, this table was about four
j I feet behind the back of Mr. Eglinton, and other furniture
| | was then between him and the table.
! | Last Sunday afternoon a seance was held at the house of
j ! Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-
| square, London. The observers present were Mrs. Gregory,
j j Mrs. Wiseman and a friend, Lady Colquhoun, the Rev. C.
| | Maurice Davies, D.D., Mrs. Ramsay, Mr. Tamplyn, and
I | myself. The daylight was excluded from the room by shut-
| | ters, gas being substituted as the source of light, because it
| | could be more easily regulated.
As Mrs. Wiseman’s friend was a total disbeliever, Mr.
| j Eglinton asked that his shirt sleeveb might be sewn together
| | by her at the wrists, while his hand^ were behind his back.
| | He took off his coat, and his sleeves were so sewn accord-
1(1 ingly. He next asked to be placed in a large green bag
March 16, 187^.
THE SfciftltftTAlilSf.
127
which had been provided, and the bag was then sewn closely | !
round his neck by the sceptical visitor. Curtains separated j j
the front from the back drawing-room, the latter of which i )
was in darkness. Mr. Eglinton sat on a chair between the | j
two curtains. The edges of the curtains were pinned | |
together as far down as his chin, so that his head should be j j
in darkness in the room behind, under which conditions he Ml
could be more easily entranced by the spirits, but from his j j
waist to his feet he was in full view of the observers as he j j
sat in the chair, enclosed in the green bag. The seam of the ! i
bag had been firmly sewn in a peculiar way, under the instruc- j !
tions of Dr. Wyld, so that the threads could not be with- j!
drawn. There was nobody in the back drawing-room, in m
which Mr. Eglinton’s head was reclining; the door was j j
locked and a piano placed against it. There was no access j j
to the room from the street, the room not being on the j j
ground floor; besides, any opening of the window would j j
have admitted a flood of daylight. In short, the test condi- j |
tions were absolute. j j
After the lapse of about ten minutes, the green bag j j
appeared to be inflated in front of his chest; it swelled out | i
like a balloon. Shortly afterwards a hand was seen patting j j
him upon the face. The hand appeared several times, and j!
gradually went farther from the shoulders of the medium, j
until at length a long, bare, living hand and arm seized a bell j
which had been placed upon his knees, and rang it violently;
then it seized an accordion from off his knees, took it
behind the curtains into the dark room, and played it there.
Next, the hand and arm, bare to the elbow, came out at
another opening of the curtain, about two feet six distant
from Mr. Eglintgn; the hand seized an empty chair which
had been placed there, and dragged it through the opening j >
of the curtains into the back room. Every now and then j
the manifestations ceased for a few minutes. Then the i \
inflation of the bag in front of Mr. Eglinton’s breast was j
seen ; next, the bag hung about the medium in a natural j
manner, and immediately afterwards the manifestations I j
recommenced. Once the hand and arm took up a pencil and j {
wrote the following sentence upon a piece [of paper which 11
had been placed upon a board on the medium’s knees:— j i
li God is love. We have done our best for you.—Joey.”
I asked the spirits whether they could show us a
materialised form under these conditions. The position of j
the medium could be certified by everybody present, and if j
in the darkness they could have materialised a full form and |
let it walk out through the opening of the curtains at which
they had previously shown the hand and arm, it would have
been one of the best materialisation manifestations ever
seen, because all the company would at once have been able
to vouch for the fact of the medium having nothing to do I
with it. The spirits said that they would try, and they j
appeared to be drawing a large amount of power from Mr.
Eglinton, who was shuddering convulsively; After a time
they said that they could not do it then, but thought that I
they should be able to by practice.
At one part of this sitting, after Mr. Eglinton was
thoroughly entranced, the spirits said that they would show 1
us the face of the medium. They gradually pushed his head |
out between the curtains, and he sat there with a white face
in a deep trance, while the spirit hands and arms were pro- j
truding themselves into view from between the curtains.
The lady who sewed Mr. Eglinton’s sleeves, and secured j
the bag round his neck, took particular notice, at my request, !
before she cut the fastenings, that they were in the same
condition as they were directly she had finished sewing them. |
She said that such was the case.
The spirits said that they did not mind the presence of !
two or three honest sceptics when their medium was placed j
under test conditions, but that what they disliked was giving |
a stance not under test conditions to Spiritualists when one
or two disbelievers were also present. Mrs. Gregory in- ;
tends to hold a series of Sunday afternoon sittings, and they
are likely to be very useful. Mr. Eglinton will not take
any remuneration for these Sunday stances.
Last Monday night there was a materialisation or trans¬
formation seance at Mrs. Gregory’s, at which Dr. Wyld, Mr.
0. C. Massey, Mrs. Ramsay, Mrs. Wiseman, the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, Mrs. Davies, Miss Katherine Poyntz, and
myself were present,
A MEMORIAL TO DR. SLADE.
A handsome illuminated address on vellum to Dr. Slade has been
drawn up as follows by the Spiritualists’ Defence Committee, and now
lies for signature, at the offices of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, by those only who have witnessed the phenomena which take
place in his presence. The names of Dr. Wyld, Mr. C. C. Massey, the
Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, and others, are already appended to the
document.
“ TO DR. HENRY SLADE, OF THE UNITED STATES.
“ In view of the deplorable termination of Dr. Slade’s visit to this
country, We, the undersigned, desire to place on record our high
opinion of his mediumship, and our reprobation of the treatment he has
undergone.
“We regard Dr. Slade as one of the most valuable test mediums now
living. The phenomena which occur in his presence are evolved with a
rapidity and regularity rarely equalled.
“ Moreover, they possess this invaluable merit, that they occur in full
daylight, and under conditions which permit of their verification by
three independent senses—hearing, touch, and sight.
“ Professor Lankester, who made the attack on Dr. Slade, and who
has since prosecuted him in the courts of law, is entirely without
knowledge of or experience in the phenomena of Spiritualism.
“ To this ignorance there was superadded on this occasion special
prejudice, in consequence of his annoyance at the introduction of the
subject of Spiritualism at a section of the British Association for the
Advancement of Science, contrary to his wish.
“ Under the influence of this ignorance and prejudice, we believe that
Professor Lankester visited Dr. Slade for the express purpose of carrying
out a predetermination to expose what, on a priori principles, he had
already decided to be an imposture.'
“ Furthermore, Professor Lankester’s ignorance of the subject showed
itself in his manifest inability to understand or accept as a possible fact,
the phenomenon of direct writing. This, however, we assert to be of
regular occurrence in the presence of Dr. Slade, as testified to by many
unimpeachable witnesses: and we further state that, in at least one
case, as proven by actual experiment, it has occurred in an almost
inappreciable space of time, i.e., in less than two seconds.
“Having in view, therefore, the ignorance, prejudice, and subse¬
quent animus of the prosecutor on the one hand, and on the other the
knowledge we ourselves have of Dr. Slade’s powers as a medium, and
the testimony corroborative and cumulative of the many observers
who have recorded their repeated experiments with him, we unhesi¬
tatingly avow our high appreciation of Dr. Slade’s powers as a
medium; our sympathy with him in the great anxiety and distress
which he has undergone; and our unshaken confidence in his in¬
tegrity.
“ He leaves us not only untarnished in reputation by the late pro-
ceeding’in our Law Courts, but with a mass of testimony in his favour
which could probably have been elicited in no other way.
“ Furthermore, we desire to avow our conviction that, in the pre¬
sent state of public feeling, and ignorance of the subject of
Spiritualism, it is impossible that Dr. Slade should obtain a full and
fair measure of justice. His Defence Committee have, therefore, on
their own sole responsibility, advised him to decline the further juris¬
diction of English Law Courts, it being their opinion that every claim
of honour has been already satisfied.”
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
Last Tuesday night, at a meeting of the Council of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell-street,
London, Mr. Dawson Rogers presided. The other members present
were Mr. Morell Theobald, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr. E. T. Bennett,
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Miss Houghton, Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald,
Mr. A. Glendinning, Mr. W. B. Mawson, Mrs. A. Maltby, Mr.'M. J.
Walhouse, Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. T. H. Edmands, Mr. R. Pomeroy
Tredwen, and Mr. W. H. Coffin.
Dr. Sexton’s resignation of membership of the Association was
accepted.
Mr. Morell Theobald read the Finance Committee’s report, which
showed a balance in hand of .£111 13s. 4d.; bills to amount of
£47 15s. 8d. were ordered to be paid, and the outstanding liabilities
of the Association were estimated at £5.
An application from Mr. E. "W. Wallis for funds to assist him in
his work in Spiritualism was read. On the motion of Mr. Joy,
seconded by Mr. Theobald, the Council resolved to open a subscrip¬
tion list in his favour, and to head it with £2 2s.; it was also resolved
I to offer him an engagement to give a series of six pr eight weekly
public seances at 38, Great Russell-street.
Presentations from the Liverpool Psychological Society, Mrs. E. H,
Britten, and Mrs. Lane were received with thanks.
The decease of General Bassols, of Madrid, honorary member, was
[{ announced, and his son, Colonel Bassols, an ardent Spiritualist, was
ii elected honorary member of the Association in his stead.
I i The meeting was then made special, and Mr. Joy moved that the
\ \ time of meeting of the Council should be altered from 6.30 p.m. to
>j 5.30 p.m.
[ i This was seconded by Mr. Theobald.
i i Mr. R. Pearce moved that the question be allowed to stand over
II until the new Council had been elected in May.
! i Mr. Edmands seconded the amendment.
i j Mr. Bennett suggested that a circular be sent to all the members
M of the Council, asking for expressions of individual opinion as to the
i most convenient hour of meeting.
j The amendment was carried by a majority of four. Ten members
voted. The proceedings then closed.
128
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 16, 1877.
COCK-LANE AT KENSINGTON.
To the Editor of the “ Morning Post ” {March 3rd).
Sir,—The undermentioned phenomena are so extraordinary that I
feel justified in soliciting a portion of your space wherein to recount
them. We live in a suburb of London, W. district, as my card, which
I enclose for your satisfaction, will show. Our house is a corner one of
a batch of four, and is moderately large. On Ash Wednesday last our
visitors’ bell began ringing somewhat violently, and it continued to do so
until about 10 p.m., when I sought a policeman, and ashed him to
endeavour to catch the supposed runaway. But he did not; and this
ringing continued daily (but less frequently in the day) until Wednes¬
day, 21st February. On several occasions I had been at the dining¬
room window, which overlooks the gate at the foot of the house-steps;
but although I heard the bell ring clearly enough, I could see no one.
After the above date there was no more mysterious ringing, but on
Thursday, 22nd February, something equally startling occurred. At the
foot of a staircase leading to the various domestic offices, and under the
stairs, is a cupboard, doubtless intended to act as a small wine-cellar,
for it is fitted up as such. Well, nothing would keep its door shut (we
had lost the key), so we placed various weights against it, which were
very quickly sent flying. Then we nailed it up very securely, but
equally unsuccessfully, for the nails were soon forced out. I then
placed a chair with some large heavy pots on top of it against the door,
and, in addition, a large horse-bucket full of water, inside a small arm¬
chair, of which the seat was knocked out, so the pail stood on the
ground. I must now mention that I got all my household into my
“ study ” with me, together with a young friend who was visiting me.
In about seven minutes we heard a slight noise, and on descending
found the bucket removed from its original position about a yard. We
then searched the house all over, but to no avail. We returned to the
‘‘ study ” before mentioned, where we somewhat anxiously and curiously
canvassed the subject in our minds—“ the pail excursion.’’ Almost imme¬
diately that we ceased so doing (in about 20 minutes I should say) we again
heard a slight noise outside the door, and, on my opening it, I found a
chair placed at right angles across the threshold of the opposite room,
having some baby’s clothes on it. This chair had apparently descended,
by some unknown means, from the nursery overhead. But now comes
the climax. This day, Thursday, March 1st, I was sitting with a young
friend, the nephew of a well-known baronet (whose name I disclose to
you in private to show that I am no impostor), in the said “ study,”
when we heard a thump overhead, and directly the children’s nurse ran
down to inform me that something had upset in the top bed-rooms, she
being underneath at the time. I ascended with my friend, and, to our
mutual amazement, we found an iron bedstead turned on to its side, and
a washing-stand and fittings sprawling before us, with the water, of
course, upset, but the china unbroken. No one that we know of was
upstairs further than the first floor, but another, whose name and address
I also furnish in confidence, remained with me, when, lo! sir, my
mahogany chairs, under our very eyes, upset of themselves, one by one,
and became—two of them—perfect wrecks. My wife and children’s
nurse witnessed this as well as my friend. I called in various neigh¬
bours to see the result of these phenomena, but we could come to no
satisfactory solution of the difficulty.—Apologising for the length of my
letter, I am, sir, your obedient servant, E. G.
London, W., March 1st.
[We shall be glad to hear from our correspondent whether any
change in the phenomena occurs when “ the nephew of a well-known
baronet ” has terminated his visit.—Ed. M. P.]
To the Editor of the “ Morning Post" {March 1th).
Sir,—In reply to your foot-note to my letter of Thursday’s date, I
beg to state that “ the nephew of a well-known baronet ” visits me only
for a short time in the morning, and lives at least two miles away. It
only chanced that he was a hearer of the noise caused by the upsetting
of the bedstead, &c., and a witness of the consequent confusion.
Things happen quite as frequently—nay, more so—in his absence, as
did the breaking of the chairs which took place about half an hour after
his departure.
I may as well now mention that on Thursday I called in a policeman
(after the suicidal wreck of the chairs) to inspect the house with me,
and that I literally bundled my wife and bairns into the streets, without
waiting for outdoor dress, &c., fearing the house might fall about our
ears through what I then imagined might be the shock of an earthquake
or explosion of some kind. But, Sir, since Thursday I have been
favoured with various coincidences which dispel my former idea of the
earthquake, although, perhaps, we may attribute the phenomena to-
electricity, brought about purposely for a hoax ; but this is only a
passing thought.
Last night a lady friend of my family called upon me. She ridiculed
the whole story which we related to her of the furniture’s misbehaviour.
We invited her to see the bed-rooms and some of the upset furniture,
not then replaced. She accepted our invitation, and ascended with the
children’s nurse. Hardly had she entered a bed-room (so she says),
when a bedstead moved diagonally towards her. This was enough for
the lady! She was so impressed that she insisted on alL of us passing
the night at her house. I consented to this arrangement on account of
the illness of my wife, consequent upon these unexplained facts and
night watchings. I am no believer in ghosts of any kind, and have
simply written to you in order to—as I said in my previous letter—
obtain, if possible, a satisfactory solution of the ^difficulty.—I am, Sir,
your obedient servant, ' E. G.
London, W., March 3.
SPIRITUALISM IN ST. PETERSBURG.
A letter from the Hod. A. Aksakof, of 6, Nevsky Pros¬
pect, St. Petersburg, informs us that Mr. Mendeleyef, one
of the professors in the St. Petersburg University, has ad¬
vanced the highly intellectual theory that the spirit raps
which so puzzled the scientific committee there are the re¬
sult of ventriloquism. This theory parallels that of Dr.
Carpenter, who after announcing that the raps were certainly
not made by machinery, told the listeners at the London
Institution that they were made inside the bodies of the
mediums, and that the sonorous vibrations were conveyed
thence to surrounding objects. M. Aksakof wishes some
of the readers of these pages who understand the subject to
inform him what are the physiological conditions necessary
to produce ventriloquial effects; also, what are the condi¬
tions under which ventriloquism would produce any sounds
at all resembling raps. He, furthermore, wishes to know
whether a ventriloquist can make voices heard while his own
mouth is firmly closed, or, on the contrary, can he make
voices appear to come from a distance while he is talking to
those around him.
Our advice is that these wanton objections of men of
science should be treated with contempt; that the assertions
should merely be put on record, that the historical reputa¬
tions of the men who utter them shall derive any advantage
they can gain thereby. In the meantime such persons
ought to be refused admission to all seances, and from the
platform and the press the public may be told that their
utterances are untrustworthy—that their authority cannot be
relied upon. Their folly should be unanswered.
A TRANCE ADDRESS.
EARTH-BOUND and haunting spirits.
Last Saturday afternoon Mr. W. J. Colville, of Brighton, gave an
address in the trance state before some of the members and friends of
the British National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great RusselL-
street, London. The subject of the address, selected on the spot by the
audience, was “Earth-bound and Haunting Spirits.”
After Mr. Colville, who appears to be about nineteen years of age, had
passed into the trance state, the communicating intelligence said that the
atmosphere around the earth was inhabited by a vast number of human
spirits, who, on account of their want of progression in spiritual things,
had not been able to enter even the first of the higher spheres of spiritual
existence. There were millions of such spirits; their surroundings were
dark and gloomy, and they were ill at ease in consequence of the sins
they had committed while on earth; they were beings who in the mortal
life had given themselves up to animal passions—who had allowed the
spirit to become subservient to matter, instead of having subdued the
flesh to the spirit. They were therefore tied to earth. Their mental
and moral nature did not fit them for a higher state of existence. They
frequently communicated with mortals, and did so easily, because their
conditions were closely allied to the material. Spirits in the higher
spheres had much more difficulty in communicating with men; conse¬
quently, only the small minority of humanity could hold communion
with the purer beings. Many persons on earth cultivated their intel¬
lectual faculties highly; nevertheless, because they did not cultivate
their spiritual nature, and because they aspired more after knowledge
than goodness and love, they were unable to enter into close relationship
with spirits of an angelic nature. Although such persons did not attract
the highest and purest spirits, they frequently had no sympathy with
earth-bound spirits. When men steeped in vice passed into the world
of souls, they carried their lives and their habits with them; conse¬
quently they returned to associate as much as they could with their
former friends, and to haunt the scenes of their iniquities. They desired
to live over again the life which they had led on earth, and they loved
to cluster round human beings who were animated by the same desires
as themselves. Some of them were so earthy that they could haunt
houses, and attract the attention of anybody by the noises they made;
but at the same time some of the haunting spirits were not low and
earth-bound; they were sometimes simply those who had begun to rise,
who wished to enter other spheres of spiritual existence, and who, full
of shame and sorrow for their former crimes, visited the scenes of their
wickedness in order to warn mortals from like courses, or to attempt
to repair some of the wrongs which they had committed. The
majority of spirits, however, who haunted houses, did so because
they could not rest, and they were not always actuated by good
motives. In time of course they fully realised their state of degrada¬
tion, and from that moment they began to rise; the orthodox world was
quite right in saying that before a man could rise individually he must
be convicted in his own conscience of sin. This conviction of guilt
did not cause the sin to be atoned for or pardoned, and many a haunt¬
ing spirit, overburdened by the pangs of conscience, tried to get near
those he had ruined or injured, and desired to make restitution. They
could not rest. The spirits who haunted houses looked to mortals for help,
they did not come to men as donors but as beggars, and could be much
aided by advice, sympathy and encouragement; they needed teaching in
spiritual things, encouragement, sympathy, and prayer. The unhappy
beings should not be driven away, but kindly dealt with and taught. Their
March 16, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
state of punishment was not the result of any revengeful action on the part
of the Deity, but was due to the action of one of the just and unalterable
laws of the universe, that retribution necessarily and inevitably followed
sin for the purpose of reclaiming the sinner. The poor benighted
haunting spirit should be welcomed and consoled, for it was possible to
do good by uttering the voice of love to those who had cast aside the
mortal form. When they caused violent noises and disturbances it was
simply to make those in the house aware of their presence, and they
could not do it in any other way; they did not understand higher modes
of communication; they were earth-bound, sad and ignorant. Often
when a spirit succeeded in delivering its message to those in the house,
it haunted the home no more.
Some questions were asked and answered, and the proceedings closed.
(Eomsponnence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to thoseof this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications canno the returned; copies
should be heptby thewriters.]
HAUNTING- SPIRITS.
Sir,—I thank F.A.B. for his criticism and suggestions. The details
he mentions were purposely omitted, for the reason that I intended but
to present a general statement of matters, reserving particulars for a
future time ; that I wished to avoid the undue lengthening of the paper;
and that I was fearful of being accused of imposing too great a tax upon
credulity in some instances.
Most of the spirits with whom we have hitherto had to deal are of a
type too unintellectual to be fitted to throw a very strong or certain light
upon the history of their own times. We are, however, in hopes of
obtaining something interesting in this direction before long. The
systematic investigation is only at present in its initial stages, and I do
not venture to guess what its future developments may bring to light.
From the first I have been careful to 'keep a minute record of all that
has transpired, and intend, when the record has become sufiiciently
varied and lengthy, to seek a favourable opportunity of publishing it, in
the form of a series of articles, or otherwise, as I am anxious that the
phenomena we have witnessed, and which at present rest upon our
unsupported testimony, should be corroborated by other circles. Such
a chronicle would, I have no doubt, be found more engrossing than any
romance; as the proverb says, “ Truth is stranger than fiction.”
Latterly a method has been initiated whereby our work may proceed
with greater rapidity, so that at one sitting we were enabled to snap
what may be termed the connecting link which bound some thirty of
these individuals to the spot on which they had been ruthlessly
slaughtered. The medium being placed in an unusually deep trance,
the subjects of our efforts were passed successively through the aura of
the medium and circle, each being immersed therein for the space of
some thirty seconds. To our eyes the process was evidenced by the
fact that the medium exhibited in rapid succession momentary, but
unmistakeable indications correspondent to those attendant upon cases
of death by starvation, stabbing, strangulation and shooting through
the heart (probably; with arrows). It is, of course, well-known that
many of those who died painful deaths feel some of the old agony when
they take control of a medium for the first time.
We expect to be able to clear this part of the country from this
spiritual incubus in the expiration of some two years. I. consider the
results important, not so much for their historic, as for their practical
value. The intelligences guiding the work are evidently possessed of a
knowledge of some process whereby they are enabled, as it were, to
strip off from those whom they bring to the circle the gross aura which
has collected around the latter in consequence of bad conditions; thus
rendering them sensitive to higher and better influences. The question
arises, would not a kindred process be effectual in removing from those
still in the flesh the bad influences with which they have become
encrusted through surroundings adverse to their spiritual growth; and
it has been suggested that, in the future, our criminals, instead of being
made worse, will be treated in some way more scientific, so as to render
them more amenable to good and reformatory training. These concep¬
tions may be deemed a little wild, but we shall see. “ A word to the
wise is enough.” A. J. Smart.
Cardiff.  
ART IN HOSPITALS.
Sir,—Under the above title, Dr. J. Lawrence-Hamilton, of 34,
Gloucester-terrace, Hyde-park, has written letters to the Times and
other papers advocating the adornment of our hospital walls. He says:
“All who have any acquaintance with the interior of our London
hospitals, must have been struck by the excessive dreariness.of most of
the wards. It is time this should be remedied. A little energy on the
part of a few philanthropists and artists, aided by subscriptions from
the general public, would suffice to accomplish this improvement. I
advocate the brightening of the wards, and the che'ering of their inmates,
by the addition of suitable pictures, plate, bronzes, carvings, bric-a-brac,
china, sculpture, ornamental clocks, fancy glass, tasteful glazed tiles,
and other art decorations.”
Dr. Hamilton then goes on to offer to subscribe a hundred guineas
towards the above object, provided that a thousand other donors give
an equal sum for the same purpose before the 1st of next May. An
ignorant attack upon this gentleman, and the charity he advocates,
appeared in the Globe of the 31st January, in which it was hinted that
he only offered his hundred guineas because he knew they would never
be required. It was a foolish attack, because no sensible person speaks
or writes of what he knows nothing, and it was ignorant, because, as it
happens, Dr. Lawrence-Hamilton is a gentleman of independent means
and large practice, well-known among the upper classes of society, and
who would not be in the least degree likely to feel the loss of the sum
| j | mentioned, although that fact does not detract from the generosity which
jji offers to provide it for the benefit of those who have no claim upon any
| (j part of him but his humanity. We all know the effect of cheerful and
; j i bright surroundings on the mind, especially in sickness; we all know,
; j i too, the effect which the mind has upon the body, and how convalescence
i | j may be quickened or retarded by the patient’s own feelings. There is
h| little doubt that the weariness and tedium of a slow recovery maybe
| | greatly alleviated by a little precision of thought. Why else do we try
! j to provide for our rich invalids cheerful society and new books? to
|) [ surround their couches with flowers and fruits—the rarer the better ?
Hi to take them little offerings ? to tell them the latest news ? Such things
I j j do assist recovery. They brighten up the flagging energies, restore hope,
i | re-create an interest in the things of this world, and make the patient
| j feel that all is not yet over. It is to provide for the sick working-man
jji some of the privileges of his richer brethren, that Dr. Lawrence-
| | Hamilton is trying to set the charitable scheme on foot of decorating
j | our hospital walls. He is desirous that the labourer or the artisan,
iji recovering from the effects of an accident or amputation, instead of
jji turning his eyes listlessly from side to side of a whitewashed ward,
Hi shall be able to fix them on a beautiful picture, or a rarely coloured
ijl piece of china, or a delicately sculptured figure, that may not only
j I divert his thoughts from his present pain, but turn them in a direction
j j never dreamt of before. No one denies the power of beauty over the
I j | mind, but, as a rule, the toilers of the City have no leisure to contem-
i i plate it, even when it is placed within their reach. If Dr. Hamilton’s
j i scheme attains fruition, who can tell what new ideas may be carried
i | away from our hospitals, not only to beautify the lives, but improve the
Hi work of the artisan and journeyman who have lain there? For whether
| j j the beautiful in art or nature bears upon the immediate labour we have
iji in hand or not, it cannot fail, by elevating the mind, to make us less
| j i contented if we fall short of the highest that is attainable to us; so that
iji I sincerely trust Dr. Hamilton’s charitable wish for our sick poor may
iji be realised, and he may find plenty of people able and willing to aid him
iji in carrying it into effect. Donations are already beginning to come in,
jji and I trust, therefore, that the prophecy of the Globe, that the doctor’s
| j i hundred guineas will not be needed, may prove as false as its estimate
i j of that gentleman’s character and intentions appears to be. X.
/ j THE DOCTRINES OP ALLAN KARDEC.
i Sir,—As I am alluded to in the letter of Count de Bullet, in your
j | number of the 0th inst, I trust you will kindly allow me to reply to
j! some of its allegations.
j 1. “-Glaucus” asserts that we do not comeback to this earth, because
j i a spirit could not progress by returning to the same planet. This might
| be true if all the conditions of the earthly life were alike in all cases,
| and if all the people of the earth were at the same level. But when we
j | see the difference of social conditions, not only at different epochs, but
I at the same epoch, and when we measure the difference between a
j savage and a Socrates, a Newton, or a Howard—nay, between the
1j children of the same parents—we see that it is quite possible for a spirit
j to find, in the immense variety of positions comprised between these
j extremes, the means of advancing both in intellect and in goodness.
2. “ Glaucus ” says that if a rich man, who has done no wrong,
should come back here to a life of poverty, and should do wrong in it,
this new life would be for him a retrogradation. But reincarnationists,
who hold that retrogradation is impossible to a spirit, and who also hold
that “ a man's enemies are those of his household," would say that the
weakness which caused such a one to go astray when poor was latent
(i in his nature while he was rich, and consequently necessitated the new
j i trial of a life of poverty, in order to bring that weakness to the surface,
j i so that he might be cured of it through the sufferings it would neces-
| sarily bring upon him.
3. “ Glaucus ” totally misconceives the doctrine of the spiritist school
j | in regard to the expiation of previous wrong-doing in subsequent lives;
j j for this expiation being always combined with instruction, reparation, and
j j the transmutation of old hatreds into kindness, the temporary oblivion
j i of the wrong-doing which he is expiating is, in the vast majority of
j | cases, an indispensable condition to the securing, by the reincarnated
iji spirit, of the ends which his new earthly life is intended to accomplish.
ij| 4. “ Glaucus’’is equally wide of the mark in his allusions to my
1i humble self. He asks, ironically, “ Does he console himself with the
i reflection that he is being justly punished for a fault committed by him
in another life ? ” To this query I reply, Most certainly; it was this
firm conviction that sustained my courage, and gave me strength, under
| the unspeakable miseries of the nine months of solitary confinement
jji from which, thank heaven! I have emerged with so little of injury to
iji my health and spirits as to excite the wonder of all who know me.
ij| God, being just, could not have permitted me to undergo an unmerited
iji punishment; therefore, as I knew I had not deserved this infliction in
ji my present life, I was compelled to accept it as the punishment of a
|ji fault committed by me in an anterior life, and as a trial and a lesson
I j i needed for my present purification and future advancement. Thus my
iji trust in the justice and goodness of God remained unshaken, and I was
j j j preserved from the danger of feeling bitterness towards those who had
j j brought this heavy affliction upon me. Such are, for spiritists, the
| j | logical results of the luminous and noble doctrine of which its detractors
| j i invariably prove their ignorance by their misstatements ! Need I add
| j | that, accepting the infliction from this point of view, I have neither
iji “railed at my persecutors” (contenting myself with wishing them a
Hi better mind!), nor made the slightest “ claim” to be considered as “a
iji martyr?”
i j i 5. “ Glaucus ’’ expatiates on the confusion of relationships, which he
j j thinks would result from the fact of successive existences in the same
ijl planet, but admits the necessity of reincarnation in different planets
j j (which spiritists almost admit); yet, unless he supposes that the same
\\ j group of parents, children, relatives, friends, and connections, are trans-
136
THE SPlUlTtJALIST.
March 16, 1877.
ferred in a lump, from planet to planet, it is difficult to see how the I
spirit can avoid contracting new relationships in his upward journeyings. j
Spiritists believe all affections to be immortal; but they do not believe
that our affections will always assume the same forms, or be restricted to
the same narrow circle of personalities throughout eternity.
6. “ Glaucus ’’ says that when a child dies it is “ the result of error ”
and of “accidental causes.” Spiritists believe that what seems to be
“ error ” and “ accident ” to our limited vision is always foreseen, and j
arranged for by the Power which “sees the end from the beginning,” j
and that, when a spirit is incarnated in a body that is not destined to
live, it is always for the attainment of some distinctly foreseen provi- i
dential end (see The Spirits' Book, p. 817). “ Glaucus ” adds that a
child who dies is educated in the spirit-world ; but if contact with j
matter is necessary to the education and discipline of the human race in j
general, how can it be otherwise than necessary to all its members ?
“ Glaucus ” tells us that he has been 1800 years in spirit-life without I
being re-incarnated. We know that spirits may remain in that life for i ]
hundreds and even thousands of years, but we also, know that by so i
doing they keep themselves from advancing. Had “ Glaucus ” come 1
back to the earthly life, (as we hold that he ought to have done and will J
have to do,) he would have obtained new ideas, instead of remaining i
rooted in those of 1800 years ago; and he might possibly, in that case, j
have arrived at a more correct understanding of the great doctrine which
he endeavours to decry by arguments that are illogical, and statements i j
that are erroneous. P. G. Leymakie. j
Wimille, France, March 10th, 1877.
A PARLIAMENTARY COMMITTEE OP INQUIRY ON THE WORKING OP THE
LUNACY LAWS.
Sm,—Will you kindly allow me, in your columns, to remind
your readers that the Select Committee of the House of Commons,
“to inquire into the operation of the Lunacy Laws, as regards
the security of personal liberty,” will commence its sittings at
eleven o’clock on Thursday next, and continue them on sub¬
sequent Tuesdays and Thursdays. Greatly as this question concerns
the general public, recent events have made it of especial interest to
Spiritualists, and all others who, leaving the beaten paths of orthodoxy
and common place, dare to utter their own thoughts, whether in
science or religion. It is impossible that this inquiry should close
without going deeply into the rights of conscience and free-thought,
since the most serious charges against the Lunacy Commissioners and
the madness-mongers arise from incarcerations alleged to have been
solely on account of Spiritualism or other intellectual eclecticism. I
earnestly trust, therefore, that all who conveniently can will attend
the Committee, as a mark of public interest in its proceedings. Ladies
may be glad to know that seats are not provided, and that, therefore,
it is well to go furnished with a camp-stool. Louisa Lowe,
Hon. Sec. of the Lunacy Law Reform Association.
64, Bemers-street, W., March 12, 1877.
ORGANISATION AND CO-OPERATION. I
Sir,—Now that the work and worry of defence caused by the late j
“ Spiritualist prosecutions ” have somewhat subsided, all Spiritualists j
in this country should confer in their respective districts as to the best i i
means whereby a general organisation of the movement can be placed j j
upon such a basis that all Spiritualists of whatever degree or opinion, j i
may join and support.the general movement to prevent a recurrence of | !
determined and unscientific prosecutions on the one hand, and internal ijl
maliciousness on the other. In thus banding together, we shall not j|j
only protect ourselves from foes without, but at once prevent the dang- j j |
ling tail-enders (to be found in every movement whereby an easy penny ! |
can be turned) from working any further mischief within our ranks. I j j
am fully convinced that if the movement of Spiritualism had been In
organised on a religious basis a few years ago, no one would have dared | |
to have taken the steps that have lately caused so much annoyance and j j
expense to Spiritualists. | j
The advantages to be derived from organisation and co-operation are j j
numerous, and could not be detailed in a limited space, upon which I j j
feel I cannot trespass to such an extent as to discuss at length on j j
the subject. They could be better handled at a general conference of I Si
English Spiritualists. By an organising system help could be given to j I
all societies and sections, and more especially to places where Spirit- jjj
ualism is only taking root. Timely help often leads to great success, i jj
I have attended many meetings in small towns and villages in Cheshire, i ji
Derbyshire, and Lancashire, and as an observer, I feel that a system of ' j j
organisation would be attended with more satisfactory results than | I
private and individual effort; it would also enable the few Spiritualists I |j
who have been attracted and made such by meetings and lectures, to jjj
become a branch of a grand general movement, thus infusing life into j j
their timidity, and not as at present leaving them waiting apathetically j j
till the worker arranges another meeting. Every Spiritualist should j j
belong to a branch that bears fruit. I j
A certain amount of system or combination has hitherto been dis- m
played, but its forces and influence have been central, and, therefore, j j j
confined, each party working out its individual views and aims, but jjj
lacking the universal desire to combine and exchange sentiment, thought, | |
and knowledge; often,' and in two many cases a despotic and priestly j j
hand has ruled the little band. This is unfortunately the case in many I j |
places I am acquainted with. The principles of combination on a I \ j
simple and effective basis would soon rid the movement of this objection- | j j
able petty priestcraft. I should like to suggest a system for discussion, j j \
firstly:—
The country to be divided* into districts, each district holding its ijl
quarterly, half-yearly, or annual conference for the purpose of debate i jj
and discussion on the progress of each represented district; the meeting i j l
rooms or lecture halls, the support of the same, and the opening of If
meeting rooms in new places to be planned and worked by the district
committee, each committee being elected from the general body of
Spiritualists in each district; their tenure of office to expire every
conference.
Secondly:—A General Conference of Spiritualists to be held annually
(but in no central place), supported by delegates from the District Con¬
ference Committees to devise the best means whereby the development,
progress, and knowledge of the movement can be attained.
Thirdly:—A system of reading-rooms, or institutes of knowledge, to
be established in every town and district where found practicable, such
rooms being used in most places for Sunday services; libraries could be
attached, thus giving a stimulus to the literary part of the movement.
I feel I have said sufficient for the present on this subject. My third
proposition I highly commend, for knowledge is the foundation of all
human happiness. Shakespeare truly says:—
“ Ignorance is the curse of God,
Knowledge the wing with which we fly to heaven.’’
, J. Hartley.
Hyde, Manchester, March 10, 1877.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
CONVERSAZIONE—SPIRIT POETRY.
On Wednesday evening last week, the usual monthly conversazione
of the British National Association of Spiritualists was held at 38,
Great Russell-street, London. Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, who has done
so much to promote Spiritualism in Liverpool, gave several excellent
recitations, including the following piece of spirit poetry, given through
the trance-mediumship of Miss Lizzie Doten, and published in her
Poems of the Inner Life
THE SPIRIT CHILD.
O, Thou holy Heaven above us!
O, ye angel hosts who love us!
Ye alone know how to prove us
By the discipline of life—
That we faint not in endeavour,
But with cheerful courage ever
Rise victorious in the strife.
. O, my sister 1 O, my brother,
I was once a mortal mother;
One sweet blossom and no other,
Bloomed upon the household tree:
Very fragile, very tender,
Very beautiful and slender—
He was dear as life to me.
All the spring-time’s fresh unfolding,
All of Art’s exquisite moulding,
All that thrills one in beholding,
Centred in that fair young face;
While an angel-tempered gladness,
Almost blending into sadness,
Filled him with a nameless grace.
And I loved him without measure,
O, a ceaseless fount of pleasure,
Found I in that little treasure!
And my heart grew good and great,
As I thanked the God of Heaven
That this precious one was given
Thus to cheer my low estate.
But with all my prayers ascending,
I could hear a low voice blending,
Like some benison descending,
Saying, “ Place thy hopes above;
For the test of all affection
Is the full and free rejection
Of all selfishness in Love.”
Then I felt a sad foreboding,
All my soul to anguish goading,
All my inward peace corroding;
And my rebel heart begun
Crying wildly, that I would not
Yield my precious one—I could not
Say, “Thy will, not mine, be done.”
Spring-time came with genial showers,
Bursting buds and opening flowers,
Singing birds and sunny hours,
Filling heaven and earth with light.
But the Summer—fair deceiver!—
Came with pestilence and fever,
Came my little bud to blight.
O’er my threshold silent stealing.
Chilling every sense and feeling,
All the fount of grief unsealing,
Came the great white angel Death ;
And my flower upon my bosom
Withered, like an early blossom
Stricken by the north wind’s breath.
And I saw him weakly lying,
Heard his parched lips faintly sighing
Knew that he was dying—dying!
And my love was vain to save I
AU my wild impassioned pleading
All my fervent interceding,
Could not triumph o’er the grave.
March 16, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
131
Vainly did I crave permission,
That my anxious, tearful vision
Might behold the land Elysian—
Forth into the unknown dark,
On that broad mysterious river,
Did the hand of God, the Giver,
Launch that little fragile bark.
Then my brain grew wild to madness,
Changing to a sullen sadness,
Tempered by no ray of gladness;
And I cursed the God above,
That with heaven all full of angels,
Sounding forth their glad evangels,
He should take my little dove.
Then my eyelids knew no sleeping:
Once my midnight watch while keeping,
I had wept beyond all weeping,—
Suddenly there seemed to fall
From my spiritual being,
From my inward sense of seeing,
Scales, as from the eyes of Paul.
Heavenly gales were round me playing,
Angel hands my soul were staying,
And I heard a clear voice saying,
“Come up hither—come and see!
O, thou sorrow stricken mother!
Unto thee as to none other,
Heaven unfolds her mystery.”
God’s own Spirit seemed to move me,
All the heaven grew bright above me,
All the angels seemed to love me,—
Waved their white hands as they smiled;
And one, fair as Summer moonlight,
Crowned with starry gems of midnight,
Brought me to my angel child.
Like a flower in sunshine blowing,
Cheeks, and lips, and eyes were glowing—
I could see that he was growing
Fairer than the things of earth.
“ Thou mayst take him,” said the spirit,
“ Back to earth, there to.inherit
All the woes of mortal birth.”
I had need of no advising;
In divinest strength arising,
All my selfishness despising—
“Nay!” I cried; “ now first I know
What it is to be a mother,
To give being to another
Living soul, for joy or woe.
“ Keep him in these heavenly places,
Fold him in your pure embraces,
Teach him the divinest graces:
I return to earth again ;
Not to sit and weep supinely,
But to live and love divinely.”
And the angels said, “ Amen l’|
O, Thou holy Heaven above us !
O, ye angel hosts who love us!
Ye alone know how to prove us
By the discipline of life—
That we faint not in endeavour,
But with cheerful courage ever
Bise victorious in the strife.
Mr. Nosworthy gave a recitation from Hamlet, and Mr. Harrison
gave “ The Moorish Maiden,” from the Bon Gaultier Ballads.
The musical entertainment was, as usual, of the best quality, and was
contributed to by the Misses Withall, Mr. and Mrs. Edmands, and Miss
Maltby. Miss Kislingbury sang a composition of Schubert’s, to the
words of Schiller’s poem Die Sehnsucht, translated by herself, as follows:
Oh! from earth’s dark, dreary valley,
Could I but a pathway find,
All this misty, cloudy region,
Oh, what joy to leave behind!
Yonder glisten beauteous mountains,
Ever green, and fresh, and fair,
Could I soar on spirit pinions,
In a moment I were there!
Heavenly harmonies resounding,
Tones of holy peace and love,
On the scented breezes wafted,
Float down to me from above.
Bowers with golden fruits’are laden,
Gleaming ’mid their leafy shade;
Sweetest flowers, ever blooming,
No stern winter comes to fade.
Oh, what bliss it were to wander
O’er those sunny hills all day,
Breathed upon by gentlest zephyrs,
Fanning earth-born cares away !
But I fear the river rushing,
Wildly raging on the shore,
All its waves rise up to meet me,
’Till my soul shrinks back in awe.
Now I see a boat come t’wards me,
But no pilot guides the helm—
Launch away and fear no danger,
Let no doubts thy soul o’erwhelm.
Go in faith and holy boldness,
Soon thou’lt see the spirit-hand,
Surely Love shall bear thee over
To that happy Wonderland.
A somewhat novel but useful portable form of seance lamp was exhibited
by its designer, Mr. Thomas Blyton. The lamp is constructed to burn
petroleum oils. An outer casing, revolving round the body of the lamp,
has six open faces with slides, in which different coloured glasses can be
inserted as may be desired. The light emitted by the lamp can be
readily shut off whenever necessary. A sliding shade is conveniently
placed so as to reflect the light downwards, and prevent the rays from
falling directly upon any objects far from the lamp. Mr. Blyton had
the lamp constructed for use at some private family seances, which he is
attending at the residence of a member of the Dalston Association, and
it has been found to work well. Light of any colour and of any degree
of intensity can be had from it at will.
The Viscount de Torres Solanot writes from Madrid that Spirit^-
ualism is making great progress in Spain. He suggests that a European
Congress of Spiritualists shall be held in Paris next year during the
time that the great Industrial Exhibition is open.
Passed to the Higher Life, on the 12th February, General Don
Bassols y Maranosa, President of the Spanish Spiritual Society at
Madrid, and Honorary Member of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Miss Anna Blackwell is now busily engaged in forwarding the
publication of an English translation by herself of Allan Kardec’s
Heaven and Hell. Copies will probably be obtainable within a few
weeks from this date.
“ If it be the Devil himself that has made the opening (into the other
world), doubtless God will take advantage of it and turn it to account..
The Devil is generally exalted into a kind of Vice-Jh'ew of the Dark,
but in no sense is he absolute Lord of the Unknown.”—Gerald Massey,
“ Concerning Spiritualism.'1
At an adjourned special meeting of the members of the Newcastle-
ou-Tyne Psychological Society, on Thursday, March 8th, the president
handed in a medical certificate to the effect that Miss Annie Fairlamb
was not in a condition of health to attend to her usual duties. It also
transpired that her engagement with the society as its exclusive
medium terminates in June next.
The walls of St. James’ Church, Westmoreland-place, Marylebone,
having been rebuilt, the incumbent, the Bev. H. B. Haweis, will hold
services there as usual next Sunday. Last Sunday he had a full
attendance at St. James’s Hall, and his own church is not half large
enough for his ministrations. His church has long been largely
attended by Spiritualists.
Life in the Planets.—Next Monday night, at seven p.m., Mr. W.
H. Harrison will read a paper before the members and friends of the
National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Bussell-street,
London, on the probability or otherwise of the presence of intellectual
life on some or all of the known planets, and the possibility or other¬
wise of establishing communication by psychological methods with
such dwellers in other worlds.
An Exposer Exposed.—A man named Bishop, who has been imposing
upon the public in America by giving mock seances to “ expose ” the
nature of real ones, attended one of the Sunday meetings of the New
York Spiritualist Association, about three weeks ago. Mr. Foster, the
test medium, was also present. Foster arose, stating that he perceived
Mr. Bishop in the meeting; that the latter had said he could duplicate
any act of any medium, and now he should put him to the test. (Loud
applause followed this challenge.) He would perform one simple thing,
which he defied Mr. Bishop, or any trickster on “ mundane basis,” to
successfully imitate. He desired the chairman to name a committee
who should select a stranger to him—if possible, one who was not a
Spiritualist. This being done, and Bishop remaining silent when called
upon to say if he objected to the selection, Foster ascended the platform.
The stranger was now requested to write five names on five similar slips
of paper folded exactly alike. Two names were to be those of deceased
persons, one lately and the other a long time passed away. The rest of
the names to be those of living people. Mr. Foster declared he would
select from the five slips the name of the one last deceased; and he
challenged Mr. Bishop, Mr. Heller, and the world of tricksters to do the
same thing. The slips were prepared, and declared by the stranger to
be fairly'mingled and indistinguishable, even by himself. Mr. Foster
then, with a pencil, pointed to slip after slip, calling on the spirits to
declare in which was the name of the last deceased. “ Is it this one? ”
One rap, “No.” “Is it that one?” One rap, “No.” “Is it this
one?” Three raps, “Yes.” With gloved finger tips Mr. Foster
daintily picked the slip from the table, and passed it to the stranger. It
was correct. “ Now,” said the chairman, “ Mr. Bishop, do the same.”
Bishop took the platform and objected to performing “ his tricks on the
Sabbath day,” but, producing his pocket-book, he said he had one
hundred dollars to bet that he could do it at his rooms. He then
occupied his allotted ten minutes by referring to his acquaintance with
Oliver Wendell Holmes and other gentlemen on the Boston committee
at the time of his exhibition there, and telling of the great things he had
done in the presence of four thousand people. The meeting passed a
vote of thanks to Foster, and unanimously agreed that Bishop had
failed to meet him successfully, and that they disapproved his evasion.—
Spiritual Scientist (Boston, U.S.),
132
THE SPIRITUALIST.
M A.RCH 16, 1877.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
INQUIRERS’ SEANCES.
BY ALGERNON JOY, M.INST.C.E.
On Thursday the 8th inst., Mr. Eglinton was the medium.
The circle consisted of sixteen persons in all, of whom ten
were not members of the Association, and the majority
seemed decidedly sceptical.
The medium was seated in a common cane bottomed chair,
with his hands behind his back, and in front of the back of
the chair. The cuffs of his coat were securely sewn together
by one of the ladies present, not a member of the Associa¬
tion, as were also the two sides of his coat in front, imme¬
diately under his chin. The coat, an . old one, kept on our
premises for the purpose, and which may be seen at any time,
was closely examined immediately after the seance. It ap¬
peared to be an ordinary coat, not constructed for “ business.”
If it was what it appeared to be, I think it was beyond
doubt impossible to get it off, or even to get the arms out of
the sleeves, without breaking the threads, or splitting the
coat up, supposing that the medium had been otherwise free.
But, he was additionally secured by a kind of linen ephod or
breastplate, over his coat. This was tied closely round his
neck by tapes, sewn to the two upper corners. Tapes sewn
to the lower corners were passed closely round his body,
under his arms, and tied together behind his back, the ends
being then firmly tied to the lower back rail of the chair. He
sat with his body just within the curtains of the cabinet,
which was opened out to its full extent. The curtains were
closed from the top down to about the level of the medium’s
waist, where they were pinned together. The whole of his
legs and feet were in sight throughout the seance. The gas
was never turned so low but that it was quite possible for the
sitters to see and recognise each other.
The moment the medium was arranged, and in fact, while
I was pinning the curtains together, Joey’s voice was heard
distinctly, though in a low tone. It soon became much
louder, and continued during the whole of the seance^ till
just before the close, about as loud as an ordinary human
voice, sometimes rising almost to a scream, when Joey got
excited. It was observed by those near the cabinet, and
once by a lady who was inside the cabinet when Joey spoke,
that the voice did not proceed from the medium’s mouth,
but from a considerable distance, perhaps a yard from it,
sometimes from one point, sometimes from another. Ernest
also spoke a few words, indistinctly, in his easily recognised
deep voice.
The fairy bells, a book, and some other objects were placed
on the medium’s knees. A hand was distinctly seen to issue
repeatedly from between the curtains, to throw these objects
about, and on one occasion to write a partially illegible
message to one of the circle. Each of those presept was
called up in turn to shake hands with Joey, and then invited
into the cabinet to see that the medium was still bound. All
seemed satisfied that it was a real live hand which had
grasped and shaken theirs, sometimes very vigorously, but
only one, I think, besides myself, fairly entered the cabinet
immediately afterwards to examine the medium. This is to
be regretted. 1 satisfied myself that, three seconds after I
had grasped the hand, the medium was still bound, as at
first. The other witness referred to said the same. The
hand was also thrust out two or three times between the
outer sides of the curtains, and the sides of the cabinet right
and left, but though, in answer to Joey’s plaintive and re¬
peated appeal that we should suggest new tests, I asked that
the hand should appear at such a distance from the medium
as to make it physically impossible that it could be his hand,
Joey did not seem to me to succeed in this.
The book, resting in full view on the medium’s knees with
the back towards him, was opened and shut several times
continuously, as though by a finger and thumb applied to the
front, the leaves which had been raised falling deliberately
one or two at a time, but there was no appearance of a hand,
or anything else to account for the motion, and we could dis¬
tinctly see the medium’s body behind the book. The fairy
bells were carried into the cabinet and played on in very
good time.
The moment the manifestations ceased, which was about
an hour after they commenced,'the medium was carefully
< I examined and found to be bound as at first. The cabinet
| j and floor were also examined by different members of the
p circle. A. Joy (in charge').
(| P.S.—I think all the movements which occurred, except
I the opening and shutting of the book, were such as might
> j fairly have been done by the medium if his arms had been
| free.
!| THE ORACLE OF PEI-TU-NOAN.
There was a man named Tseaou-p’u Yix-sang, who lived at Chao-hsien,
in Hwuy-chow, and who was a very dutiful son. He was a carver, or
engraver, in stone, earthenware, brass, and bamboo, and had acquired
much reputation in his art. He lived principally at a temple at
Ts‘ing-kiang called the Pei-tu-Ngan, and was greatly devoted to the
| temple oracle. This oracle, or Python, was very clever, but generally
failed when any important questions were asked. In everything else,
however, he was ready enough with answers; and Mr. Tseaou invariably
consulted him respecting any business he was about to undertake. A
few years ago the spirit wrote, through the medium, a Taoist priest, that
he was about to return to the celestial regions, but that in twenty years
afterwards he would be able to resume his communications. “ Mean¬
while, as a reward for your dutifulness, I will bequeath you twenty
characters, in which the principal events of your life are all embodied.
When you have acquired riches, do not let your heart be changed; bury
the coffins in your house which are as yet unburied; and give in marriage
your unmarried sisters.” The twenty characters were in verse, and ran
as follows:—“ To buy wine, go to the village in the south; suddenly, in
the left foot there will be pain; return home immediately, and procure
a hoe; and there will be enough for the remainder of your life.” The
words having been written, [the pianchette] came to a stop, and the spirit
did not appear again. Mr. Tseaou then carefully wrote the twenty
characters upon the wall. Numbers of people came and read them, all
of whom laughed at him. Three days ago, however, a friend of ours
wrote to us from Ts‘ing-kiang and told us that the oracles had come
true. Tseaou’s family had become very poor in consequence of the
drought, and had gone to live in some matsheds at Pao-ying, outside the
south gate of the city, where they suffered both cold and hunger. One
day this month, the anniversary of his mother’s death, he found himself
j without anything wherewith to appease her departed spirit; whereupon
he said to his wife—“ If our destiny is to die of cold, we must die ; but
I must not omit the sacrifices to my mother.’’ The wife assented. They
therefore took the coverlet of their bed, and the cotton jacket of their
son, and pawned them; then with the money they purchased food, and
offered the proper sacrifices. Towards evening it occurred to Tseaou
that during his mother’s lifetime, the old lady had been very fond of
kaou-leang (a sort of Chinese gin), and that they must be careful not to
offer her any other spirit. They accordingly went to a village situated
in a southerly direction to make the purchase; when half-way, Tseaou
suddenly felt a pain in his left leg as though it had been cut through !
Half-frightened and half-delighted, he exclaimed, u My good luck has
come at last! ” He then went and bought the wine, and, never minding
the pain, returned and sacrificed to his mother, shedding tears the
while. He then borrowed a hoe, and went with his wife to the place
where he had first experienced the pain. There he dug in the ground
and soon came upon a rich store of gold and silver; and during the
night, when there were no people about, he went backwards and forwards
until he had removed all the treasure to his home. On the third day
he cautiously hired a boat, and took all his money back to Ts‘ing-kiang;
so that the prophecy was fulfilled in every particular. Thus, says our
friend, did the oracle protect a good man, and God himself reward him
for his filial piety!—North China Herald.
“ It is not all plain sailing, in this profound unknown. You have to
go sounding on a ‘ dim and perilous way ’ if you once start on your
voyage of discovery. This spirit-ocean, like other deep waters, has its
mud at bottom, and many frightful forms of life and startlingly strange
inhabitants.”—Gerald Massey, “ Concerning Spiritualism”
Lancashire District Spiritualists.—A meeting will be held on Sun¬
day, March 18th, 1877, at New Mills, Derbyshire, in the evening, at 6;
Mr. Johnson, of Hyde, speaker. A meeting will be held at Bury, on
Sunday, March 18th, 1877; Mr. Quarmby, speaker. A meeting will be
held at Bolton on April 1st, 1877; Mr. Johnson, speaker.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.;
R.—The question of the ruining of the life-long happiness of children by
their parents, first raised in these pages in an article, and afterwards by Mr.
Haweis in a sermon, also by some of our correspondents, is a novel one.
Much has been taught to the young of obedience to parents, and to “ pastors
and masters,” but a more deplorable position than that of spiritual and
sensitive children subject to the influence and guidance of common-place
materialistic parents cannot be conceived; the children frequently have
the happiness of their lives poisoned, and their nobler instincts stupidly
crushed, but with the best of motives. “ Material wealth ” is held out by
one class of parents as the be-all and end-all of existence—“ social rank ”
by others of a slightly less vulgar stamp. Let the readers of these lines
look now at those persons of their acquaintance advanced in life who have
attained either of these objects—in nineteen cases out of twenty their “ con¬
ditions ” are as miserable as miserable can be, and they have blunted most
that was noble in their natures to attain the delusive objects for which their
parents, with the best of motives, but from stolid stupid ignorance, taught
them to strive. The present strides of education tend to abnormally widen
the relative positions of parents and children. Without inculcating dis-
obedience or disrespect, we assert that it is high time that a vast number of
parents were subjected to the fire of intelligent public opinion,
March 16, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d..
footfalls on the boundary of another
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, afterwhich they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, E.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargeht. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spintualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists, of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,’.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre-
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
. Lord Lyttletbn. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiencfes, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—"Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions,” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and 'America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supomaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Sclence; the Spirit' and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supematural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals twere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in "The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of aitrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Yala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated.. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM.MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. fid. 7
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid. ’
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISE, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS,by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid,
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
6s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
' Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2Yoia.j 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations. .
he Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
1 “ ’ II. „
III.
IV. „ .
.. V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the^P
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , . 1 . .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
ople
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
S d.
24 0
2 6
14 0
6 0
18 0
12 6
15 0
7 6
Oriental Religions (Johnson)
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spieitoalist Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . ,
History of American Socialisms!(Noyes) .
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . .
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal)
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A^ Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge.D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, MA. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind); or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, MD. .
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown *
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A. . . ,36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the. Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . .... . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , . 1 o
2 0
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE FHlLQSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith.. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. fid.) 4s.
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
3 Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM ..,ENTON, by J. H.
Powell, IS.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard,
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture.. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE .OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. AngelL Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALT, ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE ? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr E T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Maech 16, 1877,
Lately published, in two volumes, 8vo, cloth, price 28s.
PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE on* the
NATURE and CONSTITUTION of MAN. ..By George
G. Harris, LL.D., F.S.A., Barrister-at-law, Vice-President of
the Psychological Society, and of the Anthropological Institute
and Author of “The Theory of the Arts,’’“Civilisation con-^
sidered as a Science,” &c.
This work embraces a comprehensive and complete survey
of the nature and constitution ofr man, physical, moral, and
intellectual, exhibiting, moreover, the mutual 'connection and
dependence of each. branch. Topics • connected with the
spiritual being, and the leading opinions'1 onrthis subject,
including the nature, essence, properties,’: and mode of opera¬
tion of the soul; the alliance between'matter and spirit;
reason and instinct, their affinity and “diversity, more espe¬
cially, are here discussed; and a new theory is propounded of
our intellectual system, as also respecting the distribution,
mode of action, discipline, and cultivation of the mental
faculties.
Eminent authorities on certain of the subjects here embraced,
among them some distinguished writers on psychology, physio¬
logy and natural history, foreign as well as English, have been
in correspondence ’ with, and have been consulted by the
author, by several of whom valuable notes, which will be read
with much interest, on various and important controverted
points, have been contributed. |
“ The writer who undertakes a work like this, requires at
once a comprehensive intellect, a widespread reading and
experience, an unprejudiced mind, and almost superhuman
industry. All these qualities appear to be combined'in Mr. '
Harris.”—Westminster Review.
“A treatise so ambitious and comprehensive in subject and
scope, demands great natural powers, immense research, „
patient meditation, and assimilation of the labours of others
All these requisites Mr. Harris brings to his task. His work
proves that a searching inquiry'into man’s nature is alike
independent of two extremes, the negation of Atheism, and
theological intolerance. A perusal will lead every: man of
faith to inquire more, and every man of science to believe
more.—Hour.- > . • 1
“ This work is one of considerable value, and of deep interest.
Indeed, it is somewhat difficult to lay it down when you have
once become absorbed by its contents. We moreover venture i
to assert that it; is impossible to read a single chapter.: of the
book without being'struck with the vast array of-authorities,
ancient-and modern,' that have been read or consulted, the
wide and varied information sought or obtained, and the
original thought displayed in dealing with its deeply interesting
and abstruse objects of research.”—John Bull.
“ Dr. Harris has evidently read the writings of both ancient
and modem anthropologists and philosophers with care; and
the work will always be valuable as indicative of deep re¬
search, and a sound, though diffuse, method of treating the
subject. Every quality and style of thought are represented
by the gentlemen who have contributed to the notes, which
range from the thoughs of Mr. Gladstone and Dr. Newman to
those of Sir John Lubbock.”—Public Opinion.
“This is a most elaborate and learned production, and
testifies on the part of its author his immense research and
great ingenuity. It is, without the name, an Encyclopsedia
of man. Dr. Harris’s work is very valuable as a great collec
tipmof facts, most of them thoroughly sifted by himself, and
many of them having been subjected -to the correction of 1
acknowledged authorities.”—Dundee Advertiser .
“ The present Tvprk Js the first attenipt of. the kind; and Dr.
Harris,deserves praise' for tbe origin and completion of his
most laborious performance. In these frivolous days, such
books and such authors are rare. Altogether, it is a produc¬
tion highly creditable to the intelligence and industry of the
author, and one which no one interested in the subject on
which he writes can read without profit.”—Literary World.
“ We have probably quoted enough from this very thought¬
ful and suggestive work to induce the many members of the
Institute who are interested in the psychological treatment of
the question, to seek pleasure and mstruction in its pages.
Added value is given to it by the interesting circumstance
that the proof sheets of several portions were submitted to
learned friends of the author—such as Sir John Lubbock, Dr.
Richardson, Dr. Newman, and many others—and have been
enriched by their comments.”—Journal of the Anthropological
nstitute.
London: GEORGE Bell & Sons, York-street, Govent-garden.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR. ‘
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC" an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient. -
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 8s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. JOHN ROUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Pablished at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
ESMERISM, ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,.
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the -medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Pcstag 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRITUALISM:
‘’New Works on its Phenomena, Philosophy, and
» > \ - Present Position.
BY -“M.A. (OXON.)” - ‘
1 I*HAYE been frequently asked to publish a,book on Spirit-
jualism.J'.The facilities which I have enjoyed *forf personal
investigation, my ^ acquaintance with the j literature ? of - the
subject'and with prominent workers in it, andjthe’attention
that I.haye paid,to the investigation of its various phases, have
seemed to fiiany to 'flt me for such a duty.
It is easier asked than done. A book on1 Spiritualism, if it
did but'sketch the subject, should be veryiyoluminous; and,
when written, it would, be found to omit more than it dis¬
cussed or recorded. I cannot write such a-book; nor do I
think it desirable that any, such attempt should be made in the
present state of our knowledge.
But I do think it very important that any person who has
special facilities for observation should use them, and record-
their results as best he cam In this belief, I have kept careful
records of what I have seen, and from time to time have pub¬
lished Essays and Reviews on the published opinions of others.
I have also printed a number of chapters of Personal Research
in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism, and have
selected, from a mass that have been automatically written out,
certain Spirit-teachings.
i I propose to collect and complete these works.
First, I wish to print a volume of Essays and Reviews.
It will contain, in addition to a number of Reviews of works
of' standard American authors—Olcott, Sargent, Tuttle,
Crowell, and others—and a long Essay on the Transcorporeal
Action of Spirit, which have already appeared, much original
matter .notyet-published. A special feature of the book will
be the introduction to general readers of the best books on
Modern Spiritualism.
The volume will be published at 10s if sufficient names are
enrolled as'subscribers to show that such a book is wanted,
I and ViH pay expenses. I decline pecuniary risk.
I propose,hereafter (but not now) to issue two other works,
—one “ Spirit Teachings,” dealing with the religious aspect
of the question; the other, “Researches in the Phenomena
and Philosophy of Spiritualism,” dealing with the whole
subject - in its experimental phases, and with the theory and |
philosophy of it. These will come in due time if they find
a place., j - < < < . * ‘'i
For the present I put forward only “Essays and Reviews.” ‘
The following friends have kindly formed themselves into a
committee with a view of carrying out business arrangements.'
Those to whose name * is prefixed will" receive * names of
Subscribers, and Mr. Percival, the Treasurer, will receive
subscriptions as they become due.
Details of publication will be given when it becomes clear
that the book will meet a demand. Unless a sufficient number
of copies—about 500—be subscribed for I shall consider that
it is not wise to print.
I respectfully beg that no business letters may be sent to
me, as my time is already overtaxed.
“M.A. (OXON.).’’
Names of Committee.
.♦Mrs. Makdougall.Gregbry,’ 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-sq., "W.
Mrs. Fitz-gemld, 19, Cp.mbi;idge-street, Hyde Park, W.
♦Mrs. Tebb,’ 7, Albert^rbad, Regent’s Park, N.W.
♦S. T. Speer, Esq;,' I3^ Alexandra-road, NTW., ‘
*C. C. Massey. Esq.^96, Portland-plaoe, W. ! 1
T. Shorter, Esq., 23, Prince of Wales’-road, N.W.
♦B. Coleman, Esq., 1, Bernard-villas, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
F. W. Percival, Esq., 15, Conduit-street, Bond-street, "W.,
Treasurer, to whom all Names are to be sent in,
together with all subscriptions when payable.
Subscribers who do not wish their names to be published,
should inform Mr. Percival to that effect.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try-again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
; are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations. ’
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
notyet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to1 engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power,, at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak ;'he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table tbat
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is ‘under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “ Who is the medium ? ’’ When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
THE SPIRITUALIST FUND.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION FOR 1877 AND 1878.
£ s. d.
Le Comte de Bullet   60 0 0
.. J.$N. T. Martheze, Esq       20 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq fj  20 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq,  15 0 0
Charles. Blackburn, Esq  10 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq     10 0 0
N+F.^Dawe/Esq   L 10 0 0
» G. Q. Joad,.Esq...t  10 0 0
The Hon. A.*Aksakof ‘i    10 0 0
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D...:;.  10 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Barti   10 0 0
m. E.l”..'L...'^..i..  10 o o
James Mylney Esq. Z   io 0 0
X.     i ...'.  10 0 0
B   .'...  6 6 0
C. T. .......^....('.4.....; 5 5 0
George. Sutherland, Esq    5 5 0
T. E.'Partridge, Esq  5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq  5 0 0
The Countess of Caithness f  5 0 0
■ . Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun j  5 0 0
B.   H 3 0 0
Mrs. E. Dixon  t   i 2 2 0
The Rev. W. Whitear   2 2 0
Dr. Baikie..  2 2 0
Miss Whitear       2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., M.R.I    2 2 0
i Mrs. Lowe      2 2 0
S. J. H.       2 2 0
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S ....'.  2 2 0
W. O. Pickersgill, Esq. 2 0 0
W     ...:.;.W.U.U.Z.;....1 2 0 0
G.V dig   A...... 2 0 0
S. T. Speer, Esq., M.D     2 0 0
W. M. Buchanan, Esq., M.D  a 2 0 0
A. Vacher, Esq ....‘. .......A  2 0 0
Colonel Olcott fas  2 0 0
The Baroness von Vay    110 0
George Lee, Esq.-    110
< G. R. Tapp, Esq    110
Mrs. Maltby....  110
B. W. Pycock, Esq    110
Mrs. Nosworthy    110
C. T. Hook, Esq     l 1 o
Major Menars     i - 1 o '
A. Glendinning, Esq     110
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S  110.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.Tel.E   110
Mrs. Hennings     j 1 l o
Dr. George Wyld  1 1 o
Miss Allen   .V... 110
W. P. Adshead, Esq    1 J. 0
John Mould, Esq  1 i o
J. P. Turner, Esq      110
J. T. Dodd, Esq      1 1, o
Mrs. Jeffreys     1 .1 0
Miss Douglas    R 0 0
John Scott, Esq  l o 0
1 J. C. Ferguson, Esq..'. '..t.   10 0
A. C. Swinton, Esq. ., ..L 1  10 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory ...'.  i o 0
Mrs. Tyndall      10 0
Lieut.-Col.’ Jacoby  ,....'   l o 0
John Chapman, Esq   10 0
G. F. Green, Esq    0 10 6
Mrs. E. K. Beeby   0 10 6
R. Gatling..,..;   0 10 6
E. R.         0 10 6
J. Hare, Esq    0 10 0
A Friend   0 10 0
A Friend      0 10 0
Miss Pearce  0 5 0
J. T. M  0 5 0
Subscriptions to this Fund should be remitted to W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
Reflexionen aus der GEISTER-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Josefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexander Gasse. London
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: OSWALD Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Cb Sttmtalist Ifctosmmer*
^Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Half-a-
ciown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ’’ is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London: and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the: first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
Bo notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holbom Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. ALLEN, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
