AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 137.—(Vol. VL-No. 15.) LONDON: APRIL 9, 1875.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence^
(Contents.
Spirit Teachings. No. XXX  ... ... ...   
The Dalston Association of Spiritualists:—Inherited Mediumship 
The Brixton Psychological Society:—Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald on
Spiritualism  ' 
Testimonial to Mr. W. Wallace  ...   
The New Reading Room of the National Association of Spiritualists...
The New Psychological Society ...   ...  
Correspondence:—Reviewing a Reviewer—The Pall Mall Gazette on
Spiritualism—A Few Questions—Spiritualism in Reading—Spirit
Identity—Spirit Travelling During Bodily Sleep—A Seance with
Messrs. Bastian and Taylor—The Coming Bazaar—Mrs. Tappan’s
Lectures  
Materialised Spirits in Chester-le-Street 
Answers to Correspondents      
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in Carlisle, 174; Spiritualism in Ipswich,
174; Bazaar of the National Association, 176; Healing Medium-
ship in Liverpool, 179; Passed to Spirit Life 
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(Established 187 0.)
President.
Henry D. Jencken, Esq,, M.R.I., F.R.G.S. (Barrister-at-Law).
Council
Mr. A. Ferguson Black. j
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton.
Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Mrs. Amelia Corner.
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mr. R Pomeroy Tredwen.
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mrs. M. Theresa Wood.
Hon. Sec. and Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
The purposes of the Association are:—
(1) . The collection of well-authenticated facts affecting Spiritualism,
through its own circle, or circles, and other available sources, so as to form
a basis for sound judgment.
(2) . By various means to offer facilities to*,investigators, and to induce
others to give the matter careful inquiry, with a view to a bettor understand¬
ing of the phenomena and teachings of Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p m.,'to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar As¬
sociations {vide Rule IX.). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary
seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to which strangers
are admitted, under the same regulations as are inforced on the frst Thurs¬
day evening in each month.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, members of the Associa¬
tion have the privilege of utilising the well-stocked Library, comprising
numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred subjects. All the
English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are regularly supplied to
the Rooms for the perusal of Members.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of
the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed en¬
velope should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies. Copies of the
Prospectus, Rules, Circle Regulations, and directions •' how to form Spirit
“Circles,” with any further information, to be obtained on application to
the Secretary at his private residence, 12, St. Phillip’s-road, Dalston, E.
PERSONS in Oxford interested in Spiritualism are
invited to call upon Mr. Stock, 14, Queen-street, with a view to the
formation of a society for the investigation of phenomena and the discus¬
sion of theories in connection with Spiritualism and cognate subjects.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 8s.; small size, Is.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Association, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions o Printing,
Estimates forwarded on application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
, SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Assoeiation of Spiritualists is formed to unit©
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the house is in Wobum-street.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD A
SERIES OF CONVERSAZIONES.
The next Converzasione will he held in the Small Hall, St. George'
Hall, Lanyham-place, W. (entrance in Mortimer-street).
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition.
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets. Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 6d. Sub¬
scribers of one guinea, twenty tickets, each available for any one of the
first six meetings. To be obtained of the resident secretary, Miss Kisling -
bury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.; and at the doors of the
Hall on the evening of April 7 th, when holders of tickets for the course
can also exchange the required number.
NOTICE.
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’S LECTURES ON SUNDAY
EVENINGS.
Second Course
UPON THE « SOUL AND SPIRIT (5f MAN, ITS ORIGIN,
PROGRESS, AND DESTINY.”
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-street, Portland-place, London, every Sunday evening
Doors open at 6.30, to commence at 7 p.m.
Reserved seats 2s. each. Other seats Is. each, and 6d. each, to be
purchased at the doors.
Tickets for a course of twelve lectures can be obtained of Mr. ‘Webster
Glynes. 4, Gray’s-inn-square, on application, enclosed post-office order for
24s. or 12s.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cath&lrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
X>EVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
ill fondfe par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
u THS SPIRITUALIST. April 9, 1875.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Beakers foe 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest'
E. Oasson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G-
Irving, Mrs. Gay, a,nd Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
rjlHE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
JL in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875. ,
East lohdon spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Booms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Alien Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
"EYAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
JL; and PBOGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, H.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CURATIVE MESMERISM,
BY
PEOFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Bailliere & 00., King William-street, Strand.
Spiritualism and reform. “ TheBanner of Light”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass. U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Three Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
Published on the first of each month, Price Sixpence,
The spiritual magazine, edited by george
SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commenced in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-row, E.C.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander AksakoF, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Numberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
THE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 2^d. Published on
the 1st of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Eeigate, and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine
street, London.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer
4, Kingsgate-street, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
mHE FIRE
RE - INSURANCE CORPORATION,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL £200,000 (FIRST ISSUE, £100,000),
Divided into 20,000 shares of £10 each, half of which will be payable as
follows, viz.:—£1 deposit on application, £2 on allotment, and £2 in four
months after allotment. It is not expected that any further calls will
at any time be made, and in no event can they be made in larger sums
than £1 per share, or at intervals of less than three months.
The Directors invite subscriptions for 2,250 shares (£22,500) in the Capital
Stock of the Company, the same being a portion of that part of the first
issue which yet remains for allotment.
The Directors of the Fire Re-Insurance Corporation, Limited, in inviting
Subscriptions for the Shares mentioned above, deem it desirable to state
that:—
Each one of them, before joining the Board of the Corporation, made
bona fide application for Five Hundred Pounds’ worth of Shares, paying for
the same in the manner required in the Prospectus.
Since becoming Directors of the Corporation they have each (by subscrib¬
ing the sum of One Thousand Pounds to the Corporation’s Guarantee Fund)
increased their financial interest in the Corporation to the sum of One Thou¬
sand Five Hundred Pounds.
Every Share issued by the Corporation has been allotted upon bona fide
applications only. Not one Share has been given away.
DIRECTORS.
Wyndham H. N. Hoste, Esq., 7, New-square, Lincoln’s Inn.
Frederick Perigal, Esq. (late Admiralty), Chalcots, Belsize Park, N.W.
John Tapson, Esq., Brighton.
William Power Trench. Esq., Ealing, W.
W. L. Williams, Esq. (W. Williams and Son, Bread street, E.C.)
Bankers—London and County Bank (and Branches), Lombard-street,
London, E.O.
Solicitors—Learoyd and Learoyd, Albion Chambers, Moorgate-street,
London, E.O., and Huddersfield. Yorkshire
Auditor—W. G. Goodlifie, Esq. (late Accountant-General, India Office),
149, Palmerston-buildings, Old Broad-street, E.C.
General Managers—C. W. Pearce, F.S.S., and Joseph Freeman.
Head Offices—2, Queen’s-buildings, Mansion House, London, E.C.
Agencies—Manchester, Glasgow, Amsterdam, and Vienna.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
This Corporation has been formed for the purpose of transacting the
business of “ Re-Insurance” with Fire Insurance Companies.
Re-Insurance is a guarantee given by one Fire Insurance Company to
another to pay to it, in consideration of receiving a proportionate amount
of the premium, a portion of any loss it' may incur under such of its policies
as are covered by the guarantee.
The remunerative nature of the business of carefully managed Fire
Insurance Companies is well-known to their Shareholders.
The returns made by order of Parliament, and other official documents,
show that their aggregate annual premium income always exceeds by a
large amount the sums paid for claims.
The following summary, compiled from the published returns in 1873, of
72 companies, strikingly exhibits this profitable working:—
Excess of
Income
over
Claims.
£
2,466,684
2,656,782
2,843,720
Balance available for dividend and expenses, £7,967,189.
No.
Companies.
Income for
one year.
Claims
Paid.
British 
United States.
Continental .,
£
5,404,825
5,337,811
5,170,768
£
2,938,141
2,681,029
2.327,048
The business of the Corporation being to re-insure a portion of the surplus
business of such companies, and receiving from them a premium income
exactly proportionate to the amount of business re-insured, it will share
proportionately in their profitable working.
The Corporation is already transacting a satisfactory and steadily increas¬
ing business; its premium income for the year 1875-6 being expected to
exceed £20,000.
The rate of profit that may be fairly anticipated is shown in the following
Table of the business position of the undermentioned Re-Insuranob Com¬
panies. The Dividends paid by these for the last two years average 17J
and 22 per cent, respectively.
Name.
Premium
Income.
Excess of
Premium
Income
Over
Claims
Paid.
Dividends
Paid Last
2 Years of
Return.
Alliance of Vienna..
Security    
Swiss   
Vienna  
Magdeburg  
Pannonia 
Frankfurter 
Aachen  
Cologne 
£
86,636
247,272
37,022
97,253
114,504
115,808
25,054
31,244
82,572
£
61,404
142 632
14,667
66,609
41,287
63,597
11,498
12,827
37,585
26§
16§
17
7f
20
9
33|
6
17*
33*
20
20
14
26§
13
41*
12
The Formation Expenses of the Corporation were unusually small, and
no Promotion Money has been paid.
Applications for Shares will be received at the London and County Bank,
Lombard Street, London, E.C., or at any of its branches; or at the Offices
f the Corporation.
% olj J’rogrm a»b of ^pttjifualKiti.
VOLUME ?IX. piU^IBER FIFTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY;
Spiritualist Srtuspaprr,
Established in 1869.
HARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS:—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely anlong those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im-
• portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C. •
Ant) delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spintualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall. ,
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 819, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street,
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
,, Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
,, Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Bandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thomfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
Jgl E M A L E MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtaifaed of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offlces—l, Fitzroy-square, W.
APRIL 9th, 1878.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XXX.
After the last communication spirits were brought to
give me evidence of their identity, and proof of continued
existence after bodily death. One was a well-lcnown
person with ivhom 1 had been acquainted. I wished very
much to communicate to his relatives the messages I re¬
ceived. It ivas said:—
It is impossible and unwise to attempt it. They
know not of the truth of spirit communion, nor could
w e m anifest to them. Were you to tell them, they would re¬
ceive your word as the idle tale of a madman. You
would not be able to reach them. This is one of the sore
trials of those who endeavour to communicate with the
world which they have lately quitted. Usually they
cannot reach personal friends. The very anxiety with
which they strive prevents the realisation of their
wishes. It seems to them so important, so desirable
that personal evidence should be given to their friends,
that their very eagerness, coupled with the sorrowing
tearfulness of their friends, places an impassable barrier
between them. It is not till the eagerness is past, and
they have soared above the atmosphere of personal feel¬
ing, that they are able to reach your sphere. You will
know more of this hereafter.
Our friend who now communicates is shut off from
those who were united to him by ties of kindred. Any
attempt to force on them knowledge for which they are
unprepared would be mischievous and fruitless. This is
one of the unalterable laws with which we have no
power to interfere, we can no more force on men a
knowledge for which they are unfit than you can ex¬
plain to a child the deep mysteries of science into which
your sages gaze with wonder. Nay, less, the child
would not understand, indeed, but he would not be in¬
jured. We, on the contrary, should retard, by uncon¬
scious forcing, the end we have in view, and should in¬
jure those whom we would benefit. No such attempt is
made by the wise. • They see, as you cannot, that if they
were able to force on the unprepared advanced know¬
ledge, and to anticipate the orderly working of Divine
laws, your world would cease to be a sphere of
probation. It. would become merely a field for the
experiments of any spirits who desired to try their
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “ spirit teachings ” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—ED.
170
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 9, 1875.
power, and there would be an end to law and order.
No such reversal of law would be permitted. Rest as¬
sured of that.
* * # ' 5|! * # *
Some days after I had a remarlcahle vision, ivhich I do
not record here, hearing upon ihe course of teaching
through which I was then passing, and my mind ions
lifted out of the personal questions to a more comprehen¬
sive view-of the whole subject. On August 29, 1873, I
asked a question whether an extraordinarg effort ivere
being made by spirits to impress men. It was written :—
In one sense this is no new thing. The age has
never been when spirits did not act upon men. Prom
the earliest ages of which we know it has been so. And
in proportion as man has cultivated the spiritual side of
his nature, have we been best able to operate on him.
During the long dreary days that have passed, when
man had lost all knowledge of spirit communion, and
had well-nigh eliminated angel and angel-ministry from
his creed, we were forced to withdraw our influence.
We had no option: even as with the voluntarily
depraved the guardian is powerless, and is gradually
driven further and further away, till in the end it is
forced to flee.
There have always been epochs of special activity,
both with the adversaries and with those who resist
them. The present, as you know, is one such epoch.
We hope for great results, inasmuch as the mind of man
is more directed now to the subject of intercourse with
us, and because recent scientific discoveries have in a
measure prepared him for entering into the means
which we employ. This is the good we expect from
your men of science. They will direct attention to
phenomena which are the attesting evidence of our real
work. When human' science demonstrates by its
methods, independent existence out of the body, and
lays down laws under which such beings can operate on
your plane of matter, then one great point will be gained.
We shall not then be compelled to waste all our power
in demonstrating our existence, in fighting the vagaries
of man’s fancy, in pleasing an awakened curiosity. It
will be so much gained as a step to the acceptance of
the instruction and enlightenment which we come to
give you.
But the time is not yet. Ignorance and prejudice
hold their sway; and generations must pass- while the
apparently slow process of laying the foundations is
going on. The time is not yet. When, in the counsels
of the All-Wise, it shall have arrived, blessed are they
who have waited and watched for it, and who have pre¬
pared the way for the acceptance of the great truths
which shall then burst upon mankind.
This then is what is prophecied of in the Gospels as
the Second Coming of Christ ?
You must be warned not to attach too great impor¬
tance to the wording of records which are in many cases
obscure and erroneous ; which record the vague impres¬
sions of men who frequently did not understand what
was being said to them ; which have been badly trans¬
lated, and which must frequently convey erroneous
impressions. With these restrictions there is much that
the Lord Jesus spoke of in the daj^s of His Incarnation,
which is finding its fulfilment now, especially as regards
the general outlook for a new Revelation even as in His
own days on earth, and as regards His return to your
world.
• The return then is purely spiritual ?
It is. The return of the Lord Jesus to your earth is
in process amongst you. He operates by his interme¬
diary agencies, though He himself may personally come
to influence men if it be necessary; but not in the
flesh. This is the age of Spirit, and the influence is
spiritual. The influence is akin to what it was in the
days of the -Incarnation of the Christ. On the Mount
of Transfiguration He talked visibly with those potent
spirits through whom the channel of influence has been
given, and who have been and are intimately associated
with this and all other similar movements. They—
Moses and Elias—acting under the commands of the
Lord, inspire and direct this movement. You will see
then why we have always spoken of it as religious. All
other views of it are partial and subsidiary. In its
outcome it is paralleled only by other great religious
movements which have convulsed your world at such
epochs as the birth of the Christ, and what you call
the Reformation of Religion, when new light burst in
upon the gloom.
^ ^
[J append in this place, as being most convenient, a
prayer ivhich icas written out for me “ as ihe expression
of the wishes and aspirations of the band of spirits,” who
were then present. Most of them had communicated
before, but they had not met together, so far as I know.
It was further said to be given as a type of their own
adoration, they having, as I gather, regular meetings for
adoration of ihe Supreme, as we havei]
“ Eternal Father ! Supreme, Almighty Lord ! Pour
down on Thy waiting children the Spirit of Thy Love,
that they may be in harmony with Thee, and with Thy
holy angels and ministering spirits.
“ Grant them, thou God of Truth, the spirit to follow
on, even unto the end, the pursuit of the truth which
comes from Thee, and is of Thee.
“ Unchanging, Eternal Lord ! grant them the Spirit of
Zeal and Earnestness, that they may with unwavering
purpose reach onward and upward to Thee, the Fountain
of Eternal Light.
“ Thou Pure and Perfect Spirit, keep’ them unspotted
and unstained. Cleanse their thoughts. Purify their
motives. Elevate their Spirit of Wisdom, make them to
grow in wisdom and in knowledge, and still to thirst for
more desires.
“ God of all graces, shower on them the plenitude of
those gifts which Thou seest to be profitable for them.
Eradicate errorstrengthen love of truth; inspire
knowledge ; infuse charity ; and increase progression ;
that each, in some sort, may join with us Thy ministers
in our Anthem of ceaseless praise.
“ Glory, and honour, and adoration be to Thee,
Supreme, All-loving, All-holy God.”
Also this prayer ivhich Imperator wrote after a dis¬
cussion which I had [Sept. 29, 1874] with another
Invisible Intelligence on subjects which vexed me.
“ Oh, Thou Adorable, Ineffable Creator, Sustainer
and Guide of the Spirit, Helper of all that turn to Thee,
we approach Thee in confidence and trust, in the spirit
of humility and love.
“ Father, receive the souls that come to Thee for help.
Tossed on the sea of doubt, bereft of guidance, they
have no help but in Thee.
“ Thine is the power; Thine the love. In the pleni¬
tude of that love stretch out Thy power to save. Suffer
the Angels of Comfort and Hope to minister around
them. Shed into their hearts the power of conviction
April""9, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST. 171
and trust. May the rich stream of assurance flow into
their spirits, uniting them to those who, themselves
unseen though not unfelt, minister to them; raising
their souls to higher planes of progress, and fitting
them to drink in nobler and purer truths.
“ Spirit of Trust, inspire them !
“ Spirit of Hope, enable them !
“ Spirit of Harmony, dwell in their midst!
“ Oh ! Loving, Tender Father, grant them the Bene¬
diction of Thy Peace.”
The prayer, earnest and heartfelt, of
+ Imperator.
THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
A meeting of the members and friends of the Ralston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism was held at their
rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Ralston, London, on Thusday
evening, the 25th ultimo. The attendance was not so large
as on other special occasions of this nature, probably in con¬
sequence of the proximity of the Easter holidays. Among
those present were, Mrs. M. E. Tebb, Mr. W. S. Tebb, Mrs. M.
Theresa Wood, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, Miss Lottie Fowler,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Misses C. and N. Corner, Mr. G. R. Tapp,
Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Parkes, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Blyton,
Mr. J. Tozeland, Mr. R. Archer, Misses Eliza, Hannah, and
Miriam Blyton, and Mrs. Blyton.
The honorary secretary read letters from Mr. J. C. Lux-
moore, J.P., Captain James, Mr. George W. Forbes Playfair,
and Mr. A. Ferguson Black, regretting their inability to
attend. Captain James wrote that Sir William Topham
regretted his inability to preside on the occasion, in conse¬
quence of his being obliged to j go to Rover. Mr. George
Robert Tapp having been elected chairman, introduced Mr.
Jencken to the meeting.
INHERITED MEBIUMSHIP.
Mr. H. R. Jencken, M.R.I., barrister-at-law, president of
the Ralston Association, then read the following paper:—
It is, I assure you, with no slight feeling of hesitancy, that
I approach the subject I have, it is true, myself selected.
Had I known its difficulty, the difficulty of obtaining reliable
data, I should certainly have paused. Pray hence bear with
me in any shortcomings into which I may be betrayed.
When we speak of mediums for the spiritual phenomena,
we of course take our starting point from the date that a
couple of little girls and their elder brother Ravid Fox, first
made friends with spiritual rappings, and improvised a mode
of signalling, which to this day is the accepted code of tele¬
graphy with those unseen beings who appear to hover around
us, so near and yet so far. I am speaking of the “ Rochester
rappings,” which first startled the unwary, aroused the drowsy
to the consciousness of the presence of an actually existing
world bordering on this to us material physical existence.
The medial power came upon these children unsought for,
all but by surprise. Whence came this mysterious gift?
Was it by inheritance ? I can trace no facts to lead me to
conclude that parentage had aught to do with its presence.
My wife (Mrs. Kate Fox Jencken) tells me that an aunt on her
mother’s side possessed clairvoyant powers; but not so mark¬
edly as to point to a line of ascent.
A. J. Ravis in his Magic Staff, speaks of his mother’s great
powers as a seeress. Mrs. Cora Tappan to whom mediumship
came when eleven years of age, informs me, that in her family,
in the ascendants, she can trace no record of medial powers.
Mrs. Burns, however, speaks of her mother’s powers as a
seeress, and of the medial power of her children.
R. R. Home’s ascendants, Scotch by origin, were not so
gifted, at all events not to a marked extent. Medial powers
are, 1 am inclined to think, not inborn, though where once de¬
veloped, the parent may under given conditions transmit the
power to its child.
You will, I well know, say, “ But your little boy is a
medium.” I admit this; but other children have had similar
gifts in early life, which, as years came, left them. Thus
Home’s boy, Sacha, was medial as a child, but the power only
lasted a year.
At the early age of six weeks, we first discovered our child’s
singular power; gentle rappings, warning us of the presence of
spiritual beings. They soon came nearer, forms were seen
in outline; a white gentle hand would make passes over
the child. When five months old the boy wrote under
spirit influence for the first time. I hold a photograph
of his writing in my hand; this writing was done in my
presence, the paper and pencil were brought to the child by
invisible agencies. To watch the little fellow conversing and
playing with spirits, and then awakening to ordinary life,
formed, to my mind, quite a study. The answer these facts
give to several theories which have been suggested is, I think,
complete.' How and whence came the power? The child
could neither speak nor think; I need not tell you that at five
months the brain is not sufficiently formed. The “ psychic
force ” theory fails to explain the phenomena; the theory that
the double of the medium is the cause, though unknown to
the medium, does not answer the case ;* what power then
acted on the infant boy, and moved his hand ? If the circum¬
stance only happened once, a doubt might, as to the accuracy
of the fact, exist, but the writing continues to this very day,
has been repeated again and again.
A French lady, named to me, said that at Lyons a child of
two years old had written sentences in her presence. Other
phenomena, such as the halo of light around the boy’s head,
his levitation, being carried from one room to another, are facts
to which I can bear witness, for I was present. I ask who were
the actors ? Assuredly not the infant or his double! The
medial power does not come, as a rule, so early in life, but
infantine medial powers are by no means so very exceptional.
Mr. Rumford named to me the other day a case where the sur¬
viving twin child talked and played with its departed sister. The
mother became subsequently medial, and could see and con¬
verse with her departed child. Mrs. Fawcett, of Bishop
Auckland, and her daughter, only received the power some
year ago. A friend of mine named to me the other day that
his niece had unexpectedly become a medium, that heavy
bodies had been levitated, that he had obtained direct writing.
I think I have said enough of the present; let us look back
and trace the history of prominent mediums since the days of
Joan of Arc.
The Seeress of Prevorst, whose marvellous powers Rr. Ker-
ner has recorded, those wondrous communings with entire
series of beings, as she, so to speak, stepped inwardly into the
inexhaustible intro-existence of her soul being; what a world
opens to the mental vision at the mere suggestion of a world
within, an actually existing world! Swedenborg, the son of
the strangely-gifted Jasper Swedenborg, no doubt in part in¬
herited those marvellous gifts he used with boundless
profusion.
John Wesley was certainly a medium j George Fox founded
a sect of Spiritualists; the “ Quaker meeting ” is nothing but
a seance of a whole community, with trance mediums as
speakers.
And yet with all these conditions furthering the develop¬
ment of medial powers, this sturdy sect, now two centuries
old, has not developed a race, or even families of mediums.
Indeed the wave of medial power comes and goes irresistibly^
like the tidal wave. Great national calamities have called for*
spirit intervention.
Sir Edward Creasey remarks, page 322 of Joan of Arc:—
“ At the age of thirteen, a voice from God came near her to
help her ruling herself, and that voice came to her about the
hour of noon, in summer time.” Afterward St. Michael and
St. Catherine appeared to her; she could see their heads, could
not distinguish their arms or limbs.
Sword and cross battled with the national calamities. It
was the same during the persecution of the Albigenses. The
wars in the Cevennes, according to William Howitt, developed
a marvellous outburst of medial power. Indeed it appears
that we may trace spiritual manifestations from the earliest
Biblical records ; through all ages to the present time, when¬
ever great changes occurred, the transition state from one
form of national religious thought to another, is, I believe in¬
variably marked by what we are in the habit of designating
outbursts of spiritual power. These outbursts do not occur at
fixed periods, but on the contrary at uncertain times, marking
all great changes which the human race is undergoing.
The school training, which necessarily belongs to culture,
appears to check the production of these phenomena. If I may
be allowed the suggestion, a highly-trained race becomes too
positive, too centralised. The doors and. windows are closed,
to translate Goethe’s well-known lines in his Faust:— 
* How about the double of the mother of the medium ?—Ed.
172
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 9, 1875.
“The spiritual world it is not veiled,
Thy heart is dead, thy sense has failed.”
It is not until great calamities happen, until great changes
take place, that the central hold is loosened, and peripheral
action sets in; not until the central hold is loosened do men
become aware of the presence of the next world, bordering
on to earth existence. It is when these changes are wrought
that a whole race will for a time evince medial powers; it
is under these circumstances that the wondrous phenomena
we call spiritual present themselves simultaneously in thou¬
sands of homes.
In some few instances the medial power is transmitted
from parent to child, but my experience and reading—1
admit very limited—are against the theory of descent.
The facts now brought to light respecting doubles, which
Swedenborg notices,* may assist in forming some hypothesis
as to the cause of these phenomena. The experiments of
Mr. Wm. Crookes and Mr. Yarley, on the well-known
medium, Mrs. Corner (late Florence Cook), the double pro¬
duced in the presence of Miss Showers, have been, though
in a different phase, confirmed by “M. A., Oxon,” whose
double was photographed in Paris, on the 31st of January.
Human Nature of March last contains several instances con¬
firming the fact that the human form can appear, even during
life, and leave a record of its presence on the sensitive plate.
In my own experience these doubles have appeared again and
again. I will instance two cases, which may perhaps interest
you. In March, 1874, a gentleman called at my house, entered
the drawing-room, the nurse present, and at once addressed
Mrs. Jencken, stating the object of his visit. As Mrs. Jencken
knew nothing of the man, had never heard his name, she
asked why he came to her. Alarmed, she left the drawing¬
room ; the gentleman followed, repeating the message he had
to deliver, entered the nursery, and then suddenly disappeared.
The name, the description of the person, the matter he had
spoken of, were all correctly stated. At the very time he ap¬
peared to my wife, I was in court with him engaged in an
important trial. A few days later Maggie, the sister of Mrs.
Jencken, entered the drawing-room, seated herself opposite to
my wife, and in the presence of the nurse, kept up a conversa¬
tion for nearly an hour, and then disappeared. “ M. A.
(Oxon)” experienced a similar fact in a railway carriage
on his road to Bristol. D. D. Home mentioned to me
that on the occasion of his visiting St. Petersburg,
many years ago, his double had been seen by his
sister-in-law and her friend two days before his arrival. A
sister of mine, nearly twenty years ago, used to be seriously
alarmed at seeing her double. On one occasion, as she
entered her sitting-room, her double was seated in her arm¬
chair, and her lap-dog asleep on the fold or skirt of the dress
of the double. The second-sight of the Highlanders, what
else is it but the appearance of the double to a living being ?
Indeed, I could go on multiplying facts upon facts, but I have
said enough for my purpose.
What theory do I then venture to suggest, for I only suggest
(I leave dogmatising to those who have had more experience
than I have had), to explain this wondrous revelation we
call spiritual ? for it is a revelation of a new order of things.
♦ It has occurred to me, that for the purpose of my theory,
we may assume a law of evolution, a developing from one
state or condition into another and further advanced state ; in
other words, that everything now existing has had a pre¬
existence—I am borrowing from the great philosopher,
Leibnitz—and that all that is created enjoys an after existence.
Our present state rests thus between two worlds, is for ever¬
more battling to hold its own in opposition to these; central
positive action enables it to effect this. Loosen the central
hold, I mean without dissolution by death, and forthwith the
borders of the two states—conditions or worlds—touch ; we
become aware of that fact by the phenomena which we call
spiritual. We term them “spiritual” because intelligent beings
make use of the opportunity of communicating with us in
understandable language; they, the spiritual beings, are not the
cause,they only use the opportunity; they step in for a moment,
and lift the veil that shrouds our future. The condition, the
state favouring such intercommunication is present,in obedience
to independent and immutable laws of nature. And what
does the fact of the presence of a double teach us ? Why this,
that we actually pre-exist in another state, even before death
has come and severed earth’s existence from our soul being.
Some eight years ago I ventured to hazard a theory, which I
called the theory of Intro-coexistence, and predevelopment.
* Swedenborg's theory was that a spirit passed through the medium,
and took for a time the form of a human being,—H. D. J. ,
The many opportunities I since have had to verify this theory
have, if anything, tended to confirm my conviction of its
applicability to the state of facts now before me.
To conclude—for I am growing wearisome—I contend that
Spiritual gifts, medial powers, are not the property of a family,
of a race; they belong on the contrary to the whole human
family, varying in intensity and diversity, according to the
characteristics of each race, and to the circumstances affecting
the race ; but nevertheless common to all mankind. And in
the diastole of the great heart of nature we are periodically
brought nearer to the other world which borders on earth’s
existence. And when the systole sets in, concentration super¬
venes—the human race bears with it, as acquired knowledge,
the consciousness of the presence of another next nearest
world. The knowledge so acquired has been used in all ages
past as the groundwork of new religious beliefs. In all times
past this has been the case. And I may venture to say, that
no movement of the present age is fraught with greater sig¬
nificance than this very Spiritualism, which, sneered and
scoffed at in its early stages, is now imperatively commanding
attention. (Applause.)
At the close of the reading of the paper, the Chairman
invited observations from those present, upon which Mrs.
Tebb, Miss Fowler, Mr. Tredwen, Mr. Parkes, and others,
spoke upon points raised by Mr. Jencken. The proceedings
were brought to a close by a vote of thanks to Mr. Jencken,
proposed by Mr. R. P. Tredwen, seconded by Mr. F, M. Parkes,
and carried unanimously.
THE BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
On Tuesday last week, the first general meeting of the
Brixton Psychological Society, as a duly organised body, was
held at the house of Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, 6, Lough-
borough-road North, Brixton, London. In consequence of its
being holiday time, the attendance was smaller than was
expected, but included the following friends :—Dr. W. Ponder,
Miss E. D. Ponder, Mr. J. E. Ponder, Mr. Henry Withall,
Miss Withall, Mr. D. G. Fitz-Gerald, Miss Fitz-Gerald, Mr. J.
Deane, Mr. H. E. Frances, Mrs. Frances, Mr. John Gray, C.E.,
Mr. J. H. Edmands, Mr. Arthur E. Rendle, Mr. E. P. Ashton,
and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
Mr. D. G. Fitz-Gerald, the electrician, having been called
upon to take the chair, delivered the following inaugura
address:—
MB. DESMOND FITZ-QEBALD ON SPIBITUAIiISM,
Ladies and Gentlemen,—I have been asked to address to
you, on the present occasion of our first general meeting as an
organised society, some remarks on the inducements for, and
the probable benefits to be derived from, association in this
direction, and more especially as to the raison d’etre of this
society as a portion of the machinery through which the work
of progress may be forwarded.
There is one question that every individual, or at least every
investigator, who is a member, or who proposes to become a
member of this Society has a right to ask, viz., What ad¬
vantages am I to obtain in return for my subscription ? Your
Council, through their secretary, will endeavour to answer
this question, as far as possible, in a business-like manner, by
reporting to you the steps which have been taken in view to
augment our members, and consequently our financial means
of well-doing, to obtain for the society a convenient local
habitation, where members may at any time meet and have
access to books and periodicals on Psychology, Spiritualism,
and kindred subjects, and to organise circles at which psychical
and spiritual phenomena may be studied. In what has already
been done, I think you will find some assurance that your
Council will do all that can be done to secure to investigators,
in the shape of various conveniences and facilities which they
will appreciate, a full equivalent for the amount of their sub¬
scription. I trust that, in our case, time, patience, and oppor¬
tunity will walk hand in hand together, and that the success
of our society will be evidenced by the satisfaction of all who
may join it.
But there are inducements for association which, with many
of us, will have greater weight than any that could be included
in a mere business statement. In the first place, it is one of
April 9, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST. 173
onr objects to promote social interconrse amongst Spiritnalists
and investigators in this locality; and herein is an advantage
which will be appreciated by those who, whilst realising in some
measare the great joy of “ standing upon the vantage ground
of truth,” may have felt the chill of isolation, the want of
sympathy, the wholesome need to help and to be helped by
others. I have hitherto referred principally to investigators ;
to those amongst us who are truly Spiritualists, who feel that
they are the depositaries of a great truth which is misrecog*
nised and contemned, no inducements to join our society need
be held out beyond the opportunity for useful work—perhaps
for additional self-sacrifice—which this intercourse will afford
to them. They are called upon to extend laterally the know¬
ledge of this truth; and I think that by so doing they will
deserve better of humanity and of its Creator than by building
vertically, alone and for themselves, a structure that may
topple to the ground and become of no effect. It is not good
that we should be alone, it is well that we should be united
with all humanity. A man who would be Christ-like must
work and suffer, with and for his fellow-men We cannot
doubt that God loves to see His children—when they have
climbed in knowledge even a little nearer to Him, and stand
firmly on some broad fragment of His truth—stretching forth
their hands to enable ethers to ascend. And one of the great
teachings of Spiritualism, as I understand it, is the solidarity
of the human race, the knowledge that our greatest work is to
help others—that the endeavour to raise ourselves is but the
necessary means to this end, in itself alone fruitless for our
permanent well-being. Spiritualism teaches that, in the
system of Providence, in the immensity of Creation, humanity
is a unit, having within itself, in its multitudinous parts, the
means of progression; and that in this progression there is
work for all and a link between all, since it is a law that none
can be left behind. Those who have angel help could not, even
if they would, so leave their brethren, and rise further heaven¬
ward. From each sphere, aid must come to those lower in the
scale of progression: it is thus that God’s help reaches the
lowest. For,
Not one sonl can be destroyed,
Or cast as rubbish in the void,
When God hath made the whole complete!
It is a duty and a necessity, therefore, for Spiritualists to
take some efficient means for extending the knowledge of
truths which, as they must believe, will sooner or later exert
a deep and wide-spread influence upon the future of humanity.
Spiritualists in this locality especially are called upon to con¬
tinue the work initiated by the Misses Ponder, Mrs. Rudd,
Earl Bird, our gentle and high-sphere trance-medium, Mrs.
Bird, and other earnest workers in the cause, to whom our
best thanks are due. The wisdom and expediency of anything
like a propaganda amongst those who are unprepared for and
virulently opposed to these virtually new truths may well be
doubted. But, by association amongst themselves, and espe¬
cially with thoughtful and earnest investigators, all Spirit¬
ualists may unite themselves with that little band of active
workers who—in spite of the combination against them of'
modem science, the theologies and various ignoble indifferent-
isms represented by the press—have gradually gained, and
are gaining, recognition for the facts upon which Spiritualism
is based. It must be remembered that the very existence of
societies such as ours is of the strongest suggestiveness to
many whose tendencies are not averse to Spiritualism—who
may, indeed, be longing for the strength and consolation it
affords—but who may have been misled into thinking that it
is a trivial delusion or a baseless dream. And, in most cases,
association is perhaps the only efficient means available to
individuals for advancing the end in view. We cannot all
write books, or edit a paper, or deliver lectures, or devise
experiments with the means available in physical science.
But until the facts ridiculed to-day become accepted as the
most stupendous truths of to-morrow, association gives to all
of us an opportunity of doing the noblest work—that which is
the most needed and the least prompted by selfishness. If any
reward, other than the highest, need to be mentioned, the
name of the humblest worker of to-day may be written with
those which, though perhaps now unrecognised, will be his¬
torical in the record of human progress. And in after years,
whilst still in this earth materialisation—in after ages, when in
a higher and brighter sphere—some amongst us, looking back
from the work to the vrorkers, will be proudly glad to say—
Quorum para fui /—I, too, was amongst them!
Although I cannot, in my own mind, dissociate the highest
ideal of science from the highest ideal of religion, there is,
apparently at least, another point of view from which the
necessity of societies such as ours may be considered. There
is the point of view of science, from which immediate and
material uses, and the generalisation and correlation of all
truths are more especially regarded. Here we are reminded
that Mesmerism—the power of acting by psychic energy, through
the will, upon external organisms analogous to our own—falls,
equally with Spiritualism, within our scope. Through a know¬
ledge of this truth—so long scouted and abused, and now em¬
braced as a last refuge against the evidences of Spiritualism—
much human suffering may be alleviated. And here, too,
I am reminded, with some regret, that many Spiritualists
have an antipathy for the name of science. For this I think
there is some excuse, but no ground of reason. As Mr. Har¬
rison pointed out at our last meeting, science is exact—that
is, verified and accurate—knowledge. The rough-and-ready
conclusions of common sense, so useful for the common pur¬
poses of life, cannot be accepted as a substitute for such know¬
ledge in matters of much more than common moment. Com¬
mon sense told us that the sun and stars, rising in the east
and setting in the west, must move round our earth once in
twenty-four hours, and that our antipodes could not be inhabited,
since any inhabitants, standing with their heads downwards,
would necessarily fall into space, It tells us that no telegram
forwarded from Ireland in the present year could possibly
have reached America in the year 1874. It has retarded
the progress of all great discoveries, and it now retards
the progress of Spiritualism, by pleas based upon
the merest primd facie views. When we advance
beyond such conclusions, we are already upon the
threshold of science. Spiritualists have to complain of some
of their opponents, not because they are scientific, but because,
in relation to one particular subject brought before them, they
are decidedly unscientific. Granting that any position would
be preferable intellectually to that taken by Professor Huxley
when he said that, supposing the phenomena of Spiritualism
to be true, they did not interest him, it must be granted also
that he then spoke, not as a man of science, but as a scientific
specialist, prepared to be wilfully ignorant in certain direc¬
tions. .The true man of science is, de facto, interested in all
genuine phenomena; and we have some such men amongst
us. Throughout his life, he has to learn from men who (are
scientific—who have accurately observed and verified new
facts—in their various special pursuits or studies. It is a
vulgar but gratuitous error to suppose that men of science,
and especially physicists, are competent to decide off-hand
upon matters which are new to them. They themselves
lay claim to no such omniscience, and, were it other¬
wise, the history of the Royal Society, the records
of all great discoveries and inventions, show that men
of science have always been wrong when they have de¬
cided upon a priori grounds against the facts of investiga¬
tors. In Spiritualism and in Mesmerism, as elsewhere, the
scientific men are those who have carefully and patiently in¬
vestigated, and who have progressed furthest beyond the primd
fade aspect of their subject. Although, as I have said, we
have some names honoured in science amongst us, it cannot
be denied that modem science, generally, is antagonistic to
Spiritualism. There are many reasons for this ; and the fact
must be taken for what it is worth against modern science.
But what I wish to point out is that Spiritualism should not
be, is not, antagonistic to modern science. All truth is har¬
monious ; all truths confirm one another. What then must
happen if both modem science and modern Spiritualism are
true—the one unrecognised, and the other recognised, truth ?
Simply this—that if modem science will not, or cannot, ab¬
sorb and assimilate the facts of Spiritualism, the latter must
gradually absorb and assimilate to itself the essentially minor
facts of modem science. So far as they both embrace truth,
they cannot remain disunited in the philosophy of the future.
Spiritualism comes, in fact, to complete, and vastly to
extend, the splendid and solid edifice, built by induction,
which we term modem science. The phenomena of Spirit¬
ualism are required as the foundation for fresh work to be
accomplished by the same safe means—work that will open to
the intellect the past and future, as modern science reveals
the material present. The science of to-day is but a small
fraction of that which, in God’s good time, will bless all
humanity; but let us render to it its due. Morally, as well as
materially, it has already done good work; for, if men are
apparently better, if there is less brutal oppression, bigotry
and bloodshed than of yore, it is because men are less
ignorant, more enlightened—chiefly through science. Un¬
knowingly, it may be said, science was advancing the work of
Christ even when a so-called Christian tribunal was condemn-
174
(THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 9, 1875,
ing thirty-one thousand innocent men and women to a frightful
and agonizing death, and two hundred and ninety thousand
more to fiendish tortures, or other undeserved punishment,
and when Catholics and Protestants were in turns burning
each other alive at Smithfield, or exterminating their me¬
diums. But the greater part of the gifts of science to man
has remained unfruitful, because science has remained incom¬
plete—because it has not recognised its higher mission, nor
yet found safe grounds for induction beyond the region of
physics.
Grand though it be, modern science is not even semi-science
—it is tertia pars Scientiae, the smallest third of the Science
to which we may look forward. Partly animal and partly
angel, we ate born into the world; and, when intellect awakens,
Nature, Sphynx-like, propounds to us the three eternal ques¬
tions—Unde ? Ubi ? Quo ?—bids us read this riddle on pain
of degradation from our higher being. In all ages, I think,
there have been men who have answered these questions; but
not as they will be answered hereafter—not as they can be
answered now ? Whence ? Where ? Whither ?—anything by
which we can answer this aright is Science. Modern science
has taken the middle question; its range is through the ma¬
terial universe, down to its constituent atom, which it recog¬
nises as metaphysical. Spiritualism has taken the last ques¬
tion, it is taking the first, it will take all three! In this room
where you are seated, beings visible, audible and tangible,
beaming with life, yet certainly not of this world, have given
to me and others, for ever, the answer to the last of these
questions. Their message has been confirmed, in the privacy
of the home circle, by others near and dear to me, whose
earthly voice had been hushed in the silence of what we call
death.
In conclusion, I would offer to investigators the advice given
of old by Lucretius—
t“ Desine, quapropter novitate exterritus ipsa,'
Expuere ex animo rationem, sad magis acri
Judicio perpende, et, si tibi vera videntur,
Bede manns, aut, si falsum est, accingere contra.’’*
And, to my fellow-Spiritualists, I will bid God-speed in the
work that is before us.
The constitution and rules'of the society were then discussed
in detail; various suggestions kindly made by Mr. Blyton being
duly considered and ultimately adopted. The secretary’s
report also was read,
The meeting having been invited to elect an auditor, Mr.
J. E. Ponder was proposed by Mr. Withall, seconded by Mr.
Rendle, and unanimously elected to fill this office.
Mr. Rendle proposed that Mr. D. G. Fitz-Gerald be elected
one of the vice-presidents of the society. This proposal was
seconded by Mr. Edmands, and carried unanimously.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald moved that Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.
(Cantab), be elected a vice-president. This was seconded by
Mr. Harrison, and carried unanimously.
It was proposed by Mr. Edmands, and seconded by Miss E.
E. Ponder, that Miss Fitz-Gerald be elected to the office of
honorary assistant-secretary. This was carried unanimously,
with much applause.
Information having been asked of Miss E. D. Ponder by
Mr. Bums, as to who would be responsible for the due return
of books, it was proposed by the Chairman, and seconded by
Mr. Edmands, that Mr. Burns be informed that the Council, in
the person of their secretary, would be responsible.
A vote of thanks to the chairman and hon. sec. having
been passed, the proceedings closed.
Spiritualism in Carlisle.—The principal representa¬
tive of Spiritualism in this city is Mr. J. Clark Ferguson, who
is spreading a knowledge of the subject in a quiet way, by
distributing pamphlets and by personal conversation.
Spiritualism in Ipswich.—Mr. J. E. Taylor, F.L.S.,
F.G.S., editor of Science Gossip, and author of numerous
works on national science, will take the chair at a lecture on
Spiritualism, in Ipswich, on Thursday, the 15th instant, by
David H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M. (Cantab.)
* “ Do not banish reason from your mind—dismayed by the very strange¬
ness of this thing; but ratner weigh it with keen judgment, and, if it ap¬
pear to you true, welcome it; but, if false, gird yourself against it.’’
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. WALLACE.
On Thursday night, last week, a meeting was held at the
Co-operative Hall, Castle-street, Oxford-street, London, under
the presidency of Mr. Thomas Everitt. for the purpose of pre¬
senting a testimonial to Mr. and Mrs. W. Wallace, Mr. Wallace
being one of the oldest mediums in this country. There was a
large attendance, the hall being two-thirds full when the tables
were removed. Among those present were Mr. H. D. Jencken,
Mrs. Everitt, Miss A. Williamson, Miss E. Williamson, Dr.,
Mrs., Miss, and Mr., Cutmore, Mr. and Mrs. Parkes, Mr. and
Mrs. Towns, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood, Miss Lottie Fowler, Mr.
W. Mannion, Mr. Stokes, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen, Mr. T.
Slater, Miss Dickson, Mr. Barber, Mr. Swinburne, Captain
James, Mr. James, Mr. T. P. Hinde, Mr. D. Richmond, Mr.
George Farmer, Mr. T. Shorter, Mr. Adshead, Mr. Bielfeld,
Mr. Cowper, Mrs. Kislingbury, Mr. Arthur Maltby, Miss
Clarke, Mr. and Mrs. R. Pearce, Dr. Sexton, Dr. Davies, Mr.
and Mrs. Pearson, Mr. Ivimey, Mrs. and the Misses Comer.
The proceedings commenced with a tea, after which Mr.
Haxby announced that letters regretting inability to attend
had been received from Mrs. Nosworthy, Mr. W. M. Wilkin¬
son, Dr. Gully, Mr. Coleman, Mr. H. Collins, Dr. Dixon, Mr.
Morse, Mr. Leighton, Mr. Wason, and Mr. Chinnery. Some of
these had written interesting communications for publication
in The Medium next week.
Mr. T. Everitt, the chairman, said that, with smiling faces
and happy greetings all around, it was with no ordinary feel¬
ings of pleasure they had assembled there that night. He
trusted that the gathering would cement old frendships, break
down all barriers, and enkindle impressions of past sympa¬
thies ; he wished that such meetings came oftener, and that
all obstructions were removed which prevented that friendly
intercourse which ought to prevail among Spiritualists, so that
they could exclaim with the Psalmist, “ Behold how good and
how blessed it is for brethren to dwell together in unity.” All
nature proclaimed that union was life, health, and strength ;
the reverse of this was weakness, retrogression, and death.
The grand doctrine of Spiritualism was “ harmony within and
without,” but harmony could not be had "without variety in
unity, for variety in unity was the cause of harmony in music.
Therefore Spiritualists must be a united people, otherwise the
cause would be a rope of sand ; disintegrated the movement
was weak, united it was strong. The meeting of that even¬
ing had been set in motion by Mr. Towns, who one day—
by clairvoyance—saw an empty bag hanging over Mr. Wal¬
lace’s shoulder, and he heard the impressive injunction—“ Go
and fill it.” Mr. Towns was a good medium. Once he
(Mr. Everitt) had been present at a seance at which Mr.
Towns was made to dance all the time in order to get enough
power out of him to produce spirit lights, which on that occa¬
sion were numerous and brilliant. Another object of the
meeting was to commemorate the anniversary of the origin of
modern Spiritualism. A third object was to bring together
old workers, and that object had been accomplished. Among
those old workers were Mr. and Mrs. Wallace, who had done
their duty in the cause patiently and effectively. They first
tried to obtain manifestations in the year 1853, and during the
first fifteen months made little progress, but then by physical
manifestations obtained answers to mental questions. After¬
wards they joined a circle, and for twelve months walked four
miles one night per week for the purpose of attending. Mr.
Tiffen, at whose house it was held, made mechanical appliances
to test the genuineness of the manifestations ; for instance, he
attached a lettered disc to the table in such a way that the
spirits had to spell out the messages while the disc was out of
the sight of the medium. Mr. and Mrs. Wallace were the first
to show table manifestations before a public audience ; they
did this first in London, and afterwards in several towns in the
provinces; recently they had travelled through the provinces
again, and he (Mr. Everitt) had heard them well spoken of in
the various towns which they had visited. (Applause.)
Mr. T. Shorter said that he first met Mr. Wallace at the
house of Dr. Dixon, at a meeting convened to see what could
be done to assist the Spiritual Telegraph, the first spiritual
periodical published in this country ; it was brought out by
Mr. D. Weatherhead, of Keighley, Yorkshire, and edited by
Mr. B. Morel], an intelligent working man. It was well that
the names of such persons should be mentioned, for those wbo
advocated the truth of Spiritualism in those early days suf¬
fered an amount of obloquy now unknown. Mr. Wallace was
then the best known medium in the metropolis. He gave
seances at the Spiritual Lyceum, Newman-street, Oxford-street,
an institution established by Mr. R. Cooper, who also pub¬
lished the Weekly Times for three or four years, and kept both
April 9,1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
175
the newspaper and the Lyceum afloat at his own charge. The
Weekly Times was the first weekly newspaper ever printed in
this country in connection with Spiritualism. Mrs. Tappan
had suggested at one of the National Association soirees that
a fund should be established to assist mediums who needed
aid ; this subject had been long on his mind, and he could not
have a more fitting occasion for speaking his thoughts than
that evening. He wished to see a regular means devised of
giving assistance to mediums in distress, so he would
propose that a society should he established for philan¬
thropic purposes, independently of all present organisations
and institutions of every kind. It was not creditable that
there should be public appeals from time to time to aid
mediums, and that their needs should be advertised, however
necessary and however good such a course might be under
present conditions. It would be far better if there were regu¬
lar machinery at work, independent of class and party. The
managing committee of the proposed society ought to inquire
into the merits of the different cases, and give temporary
relief in times of exceptional difficulty, but not permanent
relief, because in the latter case the drain upon the funds
would he too large. He hoped that this suggestion would
receive careful and candid consideration throughout this
country.
Mr. H. D. Jencken spoke of the preceding day having been
the anniversary of the outbreak of the phenomena of modern
Spiritualism at Hydesville, in the United States, through the
mediumship of Kate Fox, who was now his wife. He narrated
what fierce opposition the first steps in promulgating the
truth met with there, and told how a mob of fanatical Irish
tried to burn down the house.
Mr. Bielfeld said that he had known Mr. and Mrs. Wallace
for twenty-two or twenty-three years, and in his own experi¬
ence had seen almost every phase of the manifestations. In¬
vestigators ought not to treat the subject with levity, for
Spiritualism was a two-edged sword, and the fool would be
answered according to his folly.
[The two last speakers were imperfectly heard where our
uninvited reporter was placed, and Mr. Barber—who was
near—rose and complained that speakers could not be heard
at that end of the room.]
Mr. T. Slater said that he had known Mr. Wallace ever
since the latter had taken up the subject of Spiritualism, for
he (Mr. Slater) began his own investigations in 1848 or 1849.
Spiritual communion was a mighty truth. He had seen all
kinds of manifestations; he had seen the spirits of his dear
friends and relatives as plainly as he saw the persons before
him. In 1855 or 1856 his friend Robert Owen, the reformer,
saw physical manifestations at his house, and the raps said,
“ Slater, in a few years you will be able to take photographs
of the spirits.” Mr. Owen remarked that if he were a spirit
at that time, he would return and he photographed for the
good of the cause. Recently, while he (Mr. Slater) was trying
to obtain spirit photographs, and not thinking of Robert
Owen, he obtained an unmistakeahle likeness of him, thus
showing that the spirits of departed mortals can embody
themselves, and make themselves visible upon a photographic
plate. He had obtained pictures of spirits when using a lens
of a dark blue colour, so dark that it cut off most of the rays
of light visible to the eye. He thanked God that he had
lived to see the present facts and phenomena; hut all these
things came from the spirit world, so that the mortals present
had nothing to boast of. He was glad to see such a large
gathering.
Mr. Burns then read the testimonial to Mr. and Mrs. Wal¬
lace. It had been handsomely engraved by Mr. W. Robson, a
medium who does such things under spirit influence. This
address was then handed to Mr. and Mrs. Wallace, by three,
ladies—Mrs. Farkes, Mrs. Towns, and Mrs. Everitt—who also
presented them with a purse of money.
Mr. Wallace, who was received with applause, said that he
could only tender his thanks to all the friends present, as well
as to those who were not able to he present; he had no claim
to such kindness, it was all gratuitous, all unsought for and
unthought of on his part, nevertheless, through several me¬
diums he had been told that help would be given to him,
although in what way he did not know ; he had simply prayed
to have help in some shape or form, and here there was an
answer to his prayer. With regard to his career in Spirit¬
ualism he simply sought for truth, and, having found it,
gave it forth to others—a course which he intended to
pursue in the future as he had done in the past. He
was pleased with the universal sympathy which had
been extended towards him throughout the length and
breadth of the land. The kind letters he had received
from all parts from friends who were not able to attend,
proved that Spiritualism, beyond all other “isms” in the
world, tended to unite individuals in one bond of love. No¬
thing could break the bond of unity which Spiritualism bound
round individuals. Truth would ultimately prevail. When
he recently travelled in the provinces he found that the desire
for spiritual information was great—there was a demand to
know more about the truth; therefore workers should go
forth to enlighten the people as to the reality of the one great
fact, that man is immortal, and makes his own conditions not
only in this world but hereafter; consequently man’s destiny
is in his own hands. He would again return* thanks. He
recognised friends present from all parts of the kingdom, and
they knew that his feeling was one of sympathy and love, so
he tendered his own and Mrs. Wallace’s heartfelt thanks to
them for what they had done. (Loud Applause.)
The Chairman said that the sum which had been presented
to Mr. and Mrs. Wallace was about £112, but that the list had
not been closed, so that others might contribute that night or
at any future time.
Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan passed into the trance state, and
said that she could give them but one word, but that word
would he one of greeting and sympathy. It was a time for
looking into one another’s eyes and souls and seeing what
treasures were there, rather than for words, since the things
done in the world, and the deeds of life, originated from that
which was in the minds of men. Once in each year people
should meet in sympathy and to gather force: it might be to
gather sheaves of the golden grain of the harvest, or it might
be as in some works of reform, to strengthen bonds and to gain
greater power to battle with error. Modern Spiritualism was not
more than a quarter of a century old, yet they came that night
to gather sheaves rather than to buckle on their armour, since
it was a peaceful battle that the truth wageth. Spiritualism
was the only movement in modern times which had no leader,
and was entirely without leaders ; it did not depend upon dis¬
tinguished individuals ; it moved men, but was not moved by
them ; it had chosen its own instruments, and had reared them
up ; it considered no place too high for its entrance, and none
too lowly for its baptism. It took from all classes that which
wotild serve to bind the world together, to connect it also with
the world of spirits, and make both worlds one. Its great
primal creed was that the soul lived beyond the grave, and
that there was open communion between the two worlds;
whoso had tried to promulgate these truths had been its
movers and pioneers. Some of its earliest American workers
had been gathered to the golden harvest of eternity, including
Judge Edmonds, Professor Mapes, Governor Talmadge, and
others who were trying to accelerate this work from the world
of spirits. Many pioneers in the movement were present;
the lips of many also were silent that night. Spiritualism
spoke with its own voice, and that voice came from the lips of
the loved ones gone before. Blessed were they who, having
received that truth, carried it to those who were still in
bondage.
Dr. George Sexton said that he had come from South¬
ampton that evening, not so much for the purpose of making
a speech, as to show his sympathy for Mr. and Mrs. Wallace,
whom he had known twenty-seven years ago. Although he
(Dr. Sexton) had come into the field of Spiritualism late, he
intended to try and do double work now that he was in.
(Applause.) He believed that the spread of the movement de¬
pended less upon the exertions of mortals than upon the
intentions of the spirits on the other side, who would carry out
their schemes whether mortals aided them or not. Spiritualists
had met that night upon one broad platform, and had sunk
differences.
The Rev. C. M. Davies, D.D., said that he had not known
that there was to he so large a meeting that evening ; he ex¬
pected it to have been a quiet little affair. There was a
natural fitness in his addressing the meeting that evening, for
it was the first of April—All Fools’ Day—the day on which
Spiritualism was first manifested to the world (Laughter); it
was also his birthday, so he had a natural right to speak on
that occasion. When people called him an April fool, he
always replied that he thought that he was born to give the
lie to the assertion; and Spiritualism could say the same.
Moreover, Prince Bismarck was born on the same day, so that,
altogether, he was not ashamed of being an April fool. Being
a parson, of course he would stick to his text, and the text
placed before him to speak upon was his own experiences. He
was a veteran in this matter, for it was in 1856 that he first
began to inquire into it, and he had never really discontinued
176
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 9, 1875.
his investigations since, although truly he had given attention
to the subject by fits and starts. Spiritualists often said—“ As
you have been at it so long, why don’t you tell us exactly
where you are ?” But they must remember that there were
certain occasions when although “ speech might be silvern,
silence was golden.” Spiritualists had no creed or doctrine,
so that in coming into it men were not obliged to come out of
any other “ ism,” in fact, Spiritualism was to him the broadest
broad-church-ism. Other- objectors said that in his writings
he poked fun at Spiritualism; but he did not object to persons
poking fun at himself, and they could not deny that
Spiritualism had its grotesque as well as its serious side.
Treating Spiritualism in a light way brought it before many
of the public, who otherwise would give no attention to it at
all, and would not read anything which dealt with it seriously.
He was not going to make a confession of faith that
night; but he would state that he regarded Spiritualism
in a very serious light, and he was organising a plan
of investigating it more seriously than he had ever
done before. Messrs. Crookes, Wallace, and Cox had
expressed their opinions of Spiritualism from their
special point of view, and he thought that the clergy ought to
look at it from their particular point of view. If anything had
disposed him to look at Spiritualism more seriously than he
had ever done before it was the reviews of Messrs. Crookes’
and Wallace’s books in the Spectator and the Pall Mall
Gazette; the latter journal especially would have been the
means of his own conversion if he finally gave in to Spiritual¬
ism altogether.
Recitations, songs, and a few more speeches were made, the
following being entered on the programme:—Overture, Mr. C.
Davieson; Part Song, The Village Choristers, Mr. and Mrs.
W. H. Barnett, Miss E. Barnett, and Mr. A. Barnett; Song,
You'll remember me, Mr. W. J. Griffiths; Duet, I know a bank,
Miss Marian May and Miss Sexton; Song (with imitations),
Mr. W. H. Barnett; Duet, Hunting Tower, Mr. and Mrs. W.
H. Barnett; Song, I cannot mind my wheel, Mother, Miss
Sexton; Recitation, The Execution of Montrose, Mr. John
White; Duet, I would that my love, Messrs. A. and L. Wallis;
Resolution, A vote of thanks to Promoters and Subscribers,
proposed by Mr. Thomas Slater, seconded by Mr. D. Richmond,
acknowledged by Mr. J. Bums; Song, Napolitaine, Mr. A.
Barnett; Resolution, A vote of thanks to the Ladies, proposed
by Mr. W. Towns, seconded by W. T. Rowley, acknowledged
by (on behalf of the ladies) Mr. J. W. Haxby; Song, Coming
thro' the rye, Mrs. Barnett; Finale, Auld lang syne; Accom¬
panists, Mrs. Parkes and Mr. F. Tindall.
THE NEW READING ROOM OF THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
At a meeting of the Offices Committee of the National
Association held last Monday, the terms of admission to
the new reading room at 38, Great Russell-street, were
discussed, preliminary to the Council Meeting on Mon¬
day next, when a decision will probably be arrived at.
We are informed that:—
Though the committee know it to be the wish of the
Council, as far as possible, to grant equal privileges to all
members of the Association, it has been found impossible, at
the present low rate of subscription, to provide the advantages
of a reading room, with access to all the best works on Spirit¬
ualism, without reasonable charges. It is proposed, therefore,
that a subscription of one guinea per annum shall include
membership to the Association and free use of the reading
room; and in order that this may not fall heavily upon poorer
members, or upon those residing in the country, it is proposed
to grant tickets for shorter terms, as follows:—Monthly
tickets, 2s. 6d.; quarterly tickets, 5s. For non-members and
inquirers who may desire a'ccess to the library, the committee
will recommend a charge of thirty shillings per annum ;
quarterly tickets at ten shillings; monthly tickets at five
shillings; occasional visits to be allowed without charge.
The reading room will be open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m.,
during which time the Secretary, or during her temporary absence
a clerk, will be in attendance, to receive visitors, and give out
books, by a system of tickets similar to that of the British
Museum reading room; newspapers and magazines, which will
probably include others than those relating to Spiritualism, will
be accessible to all readers.
The above recommendations of the Committee will be
reconsidered by the Council next Monday, and modified
here and there. Half-a-crown a month will probably
not be considered an outlay likely to be made by poorer
Spiritualists. “ Occasional visits without charge ” is a
rule which of course meets the case, but as nobody will
make more than “ occasional visits,” such a regulation
might virtually amount to the abolition of all charges
for admission to the reading room.
THE NEW PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
As will be seen by an advertisement in another
column, a meeting will be held next Wednesday
night, at No, 9, Conduit-street, Regent-street, under
the presidency of Mr. Serjeant Cox, the said meeting
being the first public action taken in connection with
the new Psychological Society. If the opinions of the
president of a society may be assumed to somewhat
resemble those of the average of the members, it is
probable that the new Association will admit many or
all of the phenomena of Spritualism, but deny—or at
all events question—their spiritual origin.' In such
case the Society will do much good to Spiritualism,
because those things which are true cannot be over¬
thrown ; and if rigid criticism knocks away rotten parts
of any philosophical structure, so much the better for
everybody.
Experiments are of infinitely more value than talk,
so if the new Society will go deeply and experimentally
into the subject of mesmerism, which is now to some
extent popular, its own members, the general public,
and Spiritualists, will alike be pleased by that line of
action. The results of experiments made in the past,
are scattered up and down in books now out of print;
if those results were to be collected and classified by
the Society, and published in one or two volumes, it
would be a most useful step, and with new experi¬
ments to throw light upon doubtful points, the Society
might build mesmerism into a real science, and abolish
the nebulous halo of empiricism now surrounding its
truths.
•But if the Psychological. Society confines itself to the
mere reading of papers and to talk, to criticising and
finding fault with those who are patiently unveiling
the facts and laws at the root of Spiritualism, al¬
though some good will thereby be done by causing a
more rigid separation of the chaff from the wheat, still
it will only be a third-rate Society, and never win that
respect from friend and foe which is due to those who
do real work, and abstain from contention.
The new premises of the British National Association of
Spiritualists are situated at the corner of Great Russell-street
(No. 38) and Woburn-street. The entrance is in Woburn-
street.
Bazaar oe the National Association.—In the new
edition of the circulars it is announced that the bazaar will be
held at the Hall of the Go-operative Institute, 55, Castle-street,
Oxford-street, from the 25th to the 28th of May. Ladies are
earnestly requested to send donations of needlework and
other articles for sale, to the care of Miss Kislingbury, 38,
Great Russell-street, not later than the 22nd May. Those
proposing to send articles would greatly help the committee
by informing any one of the members what they are likely to
contribute. Names of ladies who would assist in taking
charge of the stalls are also requested to be fprwarded.
Friends in all parts of the country are exhibiting great
interest in the coming bazaar, and many ladies are making
useful and ornamental articles for sale thereat.
April 9, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
OTorrespntience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
REVIEWING- A REVIEWER—THE “ PAIL HALL GAZETTE”
OH SPIRITUALISM.
Sib,—Our old friend the Pall Mall Gazette has again come
forward to notice Spiritualism. We have no propositions
advanced this time, and no serious attempt at argument in
their defence. This mode of treating the subject has never
answered in the conflict between old notions and new truths,
strong with a quickening power and capacity for infinite
development. The logic of old notions is always of the
serpentine or rather serpent kind, and the young Hercules
even in his cradle, has little difficulty in dealing with it. The
serpents, too, are always old and blind, and cannot perceive
the reality of the mighty blessings with which the hearts of
those who have received the truths of the new era are swelling.
Cultivated minds, it is asserted, want no more evidence of the
reality and nature of a future state of existence, and the
uncultivated would be robbed by Spiritualism of the comfort¬
able superstitions they have the privilege of enjoying; their
sharply defined hell and vague and shadowy heaven, and so
on. These were the assertions made in the previous onslaught
on Spiritualism by the Pall Mall. Now the part played is
different. The writer is reviewing two new works, one
entitled Miracles and Modem Spiritualism, by Alfred Russell
Wallace, and the other Phenomena of Spiritualism, by
William Crookes, F.R.S. These gentlemen, I need not say, are
well-known men of science; the former one of the most
original investigators of the age, whose name will ever be
associated with that of Darwin, in having placed the theory of
development on a scientific foundation ; the latter, a dis¬
coverer in the domain of chemistry, and well known as an
accurate and painstaking experimentalist. The condescend¬
ing and patronising way in which these gentlemen are treated
by the reviewer is amusing, spiced as it is with the supercili¬
ousness, superficiality, and unfairness with which he treats
the works which he is reviewing.
Some compliments which he pays these gentlemen, I feel
bound to say he has put it out of their power to return him,
by the specimen he has given us of his way of treating what
we feel authorised to say are now established facts. I mean
the majority of the mesmeric, clairvoyant and spiritual pheno¬
mena.
For instance, he says “ their style of writing borrows the
forms of scientific treatment in a way which has not failed
to give a spurious importance to their records and conclu¬
sions,” and again, “these (writings) have an aspect of calm¬
ness and accuracy which makes them dangerous and therefore
worthy of exposure.” The mode of exposure is after this
wise. Suppose a man thought he exposed Spiritualism by
saying of a Spiritualist, “ \^hy, he actually believes in
ghosts!” In this manner the reviewer enumerates the things
Mr. Wallace believes m; such as mesmerism, clairvoyance,
witches, &c., &c., and naively assuming that his own incre¬
dulity and sense of the absurdity of the beliefs is a sufficient
refutation, calls this mode of dealing with the subject an ex¬
posure. It is indeed an exposure, but not of Mr. Wallace.
The following too by way of exposure, is rather a naive
passage,—“ Of Mr. Wallace it may be noted that he swallows
without hesitation nearly everything historians, physiologists,
and psychologists have agreed to reject as incredible in the
records of ancient and modern history.” Of course every
discoverer to the extent to which he is a discoverer, goes
against the opinion of the scientific men of his time, and it is
not the first time we have heard the epithet “ incredible,”
used by the scientific lights of an age, with regard to some of
the now most commonly received truths ; Copernicus heard it,
Galileo heard it, Harvey heard it, and it is still used in our
day with regard to truths which are destined to be generally
received. The reviewer is just the man to have asked the
question in the times of Christ, “ Have any of the Scribes or
Pharisees believed on him ? ” and to have formed his opinion
by the answer.
The most cautious sentence in the review is the following:—
“ There is no means of verifying or even of criticising some of
the statements of either author.” If he would take the trouble
to verify any of these statements, he would become a more
modest and a wiser man. Let him, for instance, lay himself
out for witnessing a repetition of Mr. Crookes’ galvanic experi¬
ments with Mrs. Fay, and he would be driven to conclusions
which would very much narrow his category of incredibilities,
177
and his own strictures on the absurdity of believing in the
reality and organisation of materialisations. would appear in
his own eyes anything but wise. Argument, however, with
such a' writer would be like firing a broadside at .the flying
scud, and froth is not worthy of being elevated to the dignity
even of a whipped syllabub. My chief object in writing this
letter is to chronicle another phase in the treatment of Spirit¬
ualism. On the part of a leading journal, we have had argu¬
ment based on the assumption of the uselessness or injurious¬
ness of Spiritualism even on the supposition of its truth. We
now have the supercilious swagger of contemptuous incredu¬
lity, which, to say the truth, is rather behind the average in¬
telligence and knowledge of journalism in its present state. I
shall not be suprised to have to comment shortly on a process
resembling a flank movement, to be succeeded by some dexter¬
ous hedging, before the inevitable and final mingling with the
ranks of the believers. The time will come when we shall
meet our old opponents in the temple of truth, and talk over
in all friendliness and mutual satisfaction the incidents and
struggles of our journey, the acerbities of the past all swal¬
lowed up in the sober certainty of our present and waking
bliss. The recollection of past troubles is pleasant.
Thomas Hayle.
March 30th, 1875, Rochdale.
A FEW QUESTIONS.
Sib,—Is it not possible for the same intelligences who pro¬
duce the powerful physical manifestations, to control the
movements of the delicate indicator of the electrical apparatus
described in The Spiritualist of the 19th inst.? Also, if they
can pass solids through solids, is it not probable that electrical
currents can be as easily manipulated by them as a wall or a
table ? If so, these lauded scientific tests are like all others
taken by themselves, no test; nor do they give the slightest
proof either way.
There was a remark of yours, also a similar one of a corre¬
spondent in describing materialisation seances a few weeks ago,
viz., “ I know I was not biologised.” Is not this a bold state¬
ment for the parties themselves to make? How can you in¬
dividually prove yoh were not biologised ? It appears to me
to be still an open and important question whether at some
seances the sitters are not biologised more or less, and this
accounts for the different versions given of the same.
Geobge Blyton.
2, Albert-road, Queen’s-road, Dalston.
SPIRITUALISM IH READING—SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sib,—The narration of a good test at a developing circle
may interest your readers. For some time one or two of us
interested in the phenomena have been trying to form a circle
in Reading, but inharmonious elements have prevented success.
With the help of some friends I think, however, we are now
on the right road.
The second sitting of our latest circle was held at the house
of a namesake of mine, Mr. S. (previously a stranger to me),
on the evening of March 17th last. Two ladies and two
gentleman were present, with whom I had only sat once before;
another gentleman was also there, Mr. D., who is well known
to many London Spiritualists. Our friend Mr. S., who was
controlled by some unknown influence at his first sitting, was
very speedily under influence again, and although he was
conscious he appeared to be partially entranced. A pencil
was given to him, and the influence immediately essayed to
write, and eventually the name of “ William ” was made out.
A second name was written which the medium himself read as
“ James ”; then came the surname, which was the same as
my own and that of the medium. Every time the name was
read out, it was scratched out by the influence, as if it “had
either been written or read incorrectly ; it was then rewritten,
until at last we gently remonstrated in thus so persistently
writing the medium’s name. At last I was given to understand
that I was to change seats with Mr. D., who on account of the
apparent waste of time was trying to repress the influence, and
asking for other manifestations. Much antipathy was exhibited
towards Mr. D. by the influence on account of this.
Gratification was expressed by the influence or spirit on my
taking a seat next to the medium. My hands were lovingly
patted, and I was made to clasp the medium’s hand, while
the same name was again written some dozen times. Being
unable to arrive at any conclusion, Mr. S. was asked to leave
the circle. It was of no. avail. The medium was forced by
the influence on to the floor and towards the table, which he
pushed fiercely away, and endeavoured to get at Mr. D. My
178
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 9, 1875.
trousers were violently seized by the medium, with the object
of specially drawing my attention. Mr. S. took a distant chair,
but he constantly beckoned me to come to him, and at last I
led him back to the circle again. The writing of the medium’s
name again went on as before. At last the medium was im¬
pressed to ask me if I had a brother in the spirit-world named
“ William,” and immediately I remembered that over twenty-
five years ago I lost a brother named William, between one and
two years of age, but up to that moment I was ignorant that
he had a second Christian name, for I was not more than two
years his senior. The medium’s head now nodded in the
affirmative, and intense joy was exhibited at the recognition.
A brother who departed some eighteen months ago also wrote
his name, and joyful hand-shaking was continued Sox ten
minutes. I then put mentally a number of questions to my
spirit brothers, and the medium wrote replies, he himself being
unconscious when or what questions had been put. On ar¬
riving home I found that my infant brother’s name was “ Wil¬
liam John,” and it afterwards transpired that it was “William
John ” that the influence'had written; but the medium’s name
being so nearly like the spirit’s he had carelessly read the
name out as “William James,” hence our singular obtuseness.
But the test, to my mind, was a very strong one, as no one
present knew anything of my family circle, and I myself had
forgotten the previous existence of my brother.
I may here mention that Mr. S., being so soon and so strongly
influenced, bids fair to become a very powerful medium, and
our care will be that the development shall be of a high order.
We shall strive for and encourage the better class of mani¬
festations. G. R. S.
Reading.
SPIRIT TRAVELLING DURING BODILY SLEEP.
Sir,—The following instance of the spirit travelling during
the sleep of the body, has been related to me by the Baroness
von Yay:—
A lady, who is a friend and neighbour of the Baroness, and
who was near her first confinement, had begged the Baroness
to come and mesmerise her when the event should occur. One
evening, at a late hour, the husband sent his carriage to the
Baron von Vay, with a request that he would send his doctor
to the lady, who was very ill. The Baroness was just retiring
to rest. Not being able to go to her friend, she said to her
husband, “ Let us pray fervently for poor Mrs. N., and I will
send my spirit to mesmerise her.” This was about eleven
o’clock, p.m. The Baroness fell asleep quickly, and about the
same hour Mr. N. saw the Baroness standing in the bay win¬
dow of his room. She said to him, “ Fear nothing; your wife
will have a fine boy this night.” Mr. N. was rather as¬
tonished, but believed the Baroness had come with the doctor
in his carriage. On turning round, he saw the Baron, who
only waved his hand, and disappeared. Mr. N. then went into
the yard, and inquired of the servants, “ When the Lady von
Yay had arrived ? ” They thought he must be out of his
mind, as the hour was late, and no one but the doctor had
come, and that in Mr. N.’s own carriage.
The event turned out as predicted. This is the third time
the spirit “double ” of the Baroness is reported to have been
seen, each time by a different person.
The Baroness concludes by saying, “ I often heal my pa¬
tients by evoking their spirits, and mesmerising them.”
Emily Kislingbury.
March 27th, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.
A. SEANCE WITH MESSRS. BASTIAN AND TAYLOR.
Sir,—I deem it my duty to make known to the readers of
The- Spiritualist the marvellous materialised spirit manifesta¬
tions beheld by me and Mrs. Began, and witnessed by others,
at a private select circle held at the rooms of Messrs. Bastian
and Taylor, 2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square, on Tuesday
evening, 23rd ult. The circle consisted of twelve sitters,
amongst whom were Colonel Stewart, Mr. Ronalds, Mr. Potts,
Mr. Lowther, Mr. Arthur, Mrs. Woodforde, Mrs. Bullock, and
others. The members of the circle were approved and elected
by the controlling spirits, George and Johnny. After ar¬
ranging ourselves in a semicircle facing the entrance to the
inner room, from the top of which was hung a pair of long
closed curtains, I was asked to examine a black sack, in which
the medium, Mr. Bastian, was to be enclosed ; also the room
or cabinet. After scrutinising and thoroughly searching the
same myself, Mr. Ronalds and Mr. Taylor pasted pieces of
gummed marked paper on the fastenings of the doors and
windows. We then barricaded the door, which opens on to
the stairs, by placing a table with a heavy lot of books thereon,
to prevent its being opened from the outside by a duplicate
key. The medium was then enveloped in the sack, and the
running cord of the mouth of it was drawn around his neck,
tied, knotted, and sealed, the remaining portion of the running
cord being wound around the back of the chair on which the
medium was seated in the sack, tied and knotted as at the
neck, and sealed by Colonel Stewart stamping it with his
signet ring. The bottom of the sack was then nailed to the
floor.
We then withdrew, leaving the medium in darkness, draw¬
ing the heavy curtains close at the same time, and resumed
our seats in the seance room. The lights were lowered to a
glimmer, which gave sufficient light for us to distinguish and
recognise objects throughout the room.
The company then sang the Beautiful River. On its con¬
clusion, the curtains were drawn aside by a lady, who emerged
from the dark cabinet-room, and stepped into the circle. She
was attired in a white long robe, with girdle drawn in at the
waist, after advancing a few steps, she retired into the cabinet.
In a moment, or two, she again drew the curtains aside, and
walked firmly to where Mr. Potts sat, took his hand, and
greeted him. She was recognised as the wife of Mr. Potts ;
she then returned to the cabinet and came out again quickly, and
laid hold of a chair which Mr. Ronalds had placed against the
door of the cabinet, to keep it against the wall, the back of the
chair was wedged under the knob of the door to keep it firmly
fixed; but she firmly and determinedly removed it; and
carried it opposite, and close to her husband, and gracefully
seated herself thereon. She again took her husband’s hand,
and patted him on the cheek with her other hand, he then
bowed his head low to her, and asked to be kissed ; I believe
she granted his request; she then arose from her seat and
returned ty) the cabinet, reappeared, and walked across the
room to the other end of the circle, where Mr. Taylor sat, and
shook hands with him, she then graciously bowed to the circle
and finally retired. After conversing about the wonderful
manifestation we had just seen, we again joined in harmonious
song, and ere we ceased singing the curtains were drawn aside,
and a tall, noble looking personage, with long black flowing
beard appeared, and he was instantly recognised as the brother
of Mr. Ronalds. He was attired in a white, long, full robe, with
girdle; he materialised strongly and in a striking manner;
appearing as natural and as sociable as when a resident mor¬
tal here. Upon his leaving the cabinet, he walked straight to
his brother, greeted him, seized him by taking hold of his
hand, giving it such a hearty slap, that it resounded through
the room. After making a remark or two in an audible voice,
he returned to the cabinet, came out again in a few moments,
took up the chair just vacated by his predecessor, Mrs. Potts,
and gave it a strong bang on the floor, and at the same time
stamping his feet thereon, so that we should know how sub¬
stantial they really were. Upon Mr. Ronalds asking him to
show his feet, he kindly complied, by holding up his robe, so
that we all could see them plainly ; he then lifted his foot,
and placed it firmly on the chair, and desired his brother to
look at it, and see how perfect were the toenails, which was
truly the case; in fact, he was a most substantial “ honest
ghost” for the time present, and it seemed a great pity that
he should so soon desire “ That his too, too solid flesh would
melt, thaw, and resolve itself into dew.” He then retired to
the cabinet, and, as he was doing so, I asked him to come and
shake hands with me.
“ George,” the controlling spirit of the circle, spoke in the
direct voice, and said that “ I was to come to the front of the
circle, and that my wish should be gratified, as I was one
that was not afraid to make known what I did see, hear, and
feel.” Our spiritual friend then came again from the cabinet,
and walked direct to me, and as firmly and as strongly as at first,
he kindly took me by each hand and shook them cordially.
After which he laid his hand and patted me on the head ; he
also did the same to Mr. Taylor, who sat next me. Once
more he returned to the cabinet, came out again, bowed to us
all in a most graceful manner, bade us good night, and finally
retired. Afterwards we expressed our wonderment to each
other, and indulged in meditation and contemplation on the
marvellous, palpable, and tangible manifestations so ocularly
demonstrated to us, which filled us with feelings of unutter¬
able heavenly reverence and gratitude for what we had seen.
George, the controlling spirit, desired Mr. Taylor to sing
“ Mary at the Saviour’s tomb.” He had no sooner finished
singing it .than the curtains were drawn aside by a nun,
attired in the Ursuline garb, wearing a massive ivory cross
about four inches long, and beads of the same. On entering
April 9, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
179
the circle, she knelt down and raised her cross in an attitude
of prayer. She then arose, and walked firmly to Mrs. Wood-
forde, and allowed her to handle her cross and examine it;
after doing which she returned to the cabinet, and again came
out and greeted several of the sitters, myself included, and
allowed them to examine and handle her cross. She. then re¬
verentially placed her hands on their heads, and, on retiring,
holding out her cross to me, she bowed to all, and finally
retired. Upon inquiring who she was, George informed us, in
the direct voice, that she was known as Sister St. Seraphine,
of the Ursuline Convent, Louisiana, North America. Mrs.
Woodforde was brought up in the same convent with her,
and that is why she visited the circle. She materialised
wonderfully strong, and walked about the circle with great
firmness, ease, and confidence. She appeared to be about thirty
years of age.
The next materialisation to appear was that of Mrs. Regan’s
brother. He materialised as strong as any of his predeces¬
sors ; he was attired in a white long robe with girdle; he came
out of the cabinet and walked straight across the room to his
sister and me; he greeted and shook hands with us, also Mrs.
Bullock. He then returned to the cabinet, and on coming
out again he pulled the curtains strongly together on one side,
so that we could see the outline of the medium, seated en¬
tranced in the cabinet. He stepped into the circle, and folded
his arms across his breast, and looked kindly at us all. I
asked him if the narration he had given us through a young
medium was true ? He nodded in the affirmative, and on
my again asking him if he would control the medium,
at our residence, once more, and impart more to us of his
“ Australian life,” he again nodded assent. He then bowed to
us all, and pulled the curtains each aside, and stood between
them, still in full view of the circle, and gazing at us. He
then gradually began dissolving from his feet upwards, and as
he did so his head kept lowering, until it appeared no longer
to our view. The most marvellous “dissolving view’’that
mortal ever beheld, to my humble thinking. We sat ' some
minutes longer, anticipating another form to appear, and we
should not have been disappointed either, for one had mate¬
rialised, and was on the point of appearing to us, but it appears
his feet came in contact with some obstacle, which made a
noise, and awoke the medium. George announced such to us,
and on lighting up and going into the cabinet-room with Mr.
Taylor, I found the medium awake, looking rather startled, he
stating that on awaking he beheld a form before him, but it
suddenly disappeared. The spirit’s feet knocked George’s
trumpet, which always lies on the floor of the room, against
something, which awoke him. George, after speaking through
it, always throws it on the floor of the cabinet. Upon ex¬
amining the cabinet, we found alias we had previously left it—
seals on sack, and everything about being intact! We then
resumed our seats, and after sitting a short While, one of the
cbntrolling spirits, Johnny, called for a “pair of scissors.”
Then George spoke in the direct voice, and announced that the
seance hai terminated, wished us all good night, and blessed us.
The lights were then turned on full, curtains of the cabinet
drawn aside, for all to enter and examine for themselves, the
cord of the sack found cut by “ spirit ” Johnny, with scissors
borrowed, but the seals and knots just the same as when ex¬
amined a few minutes before. We then released the medium
from his not over-pleasant confined state.
Such was the conclusion of as marvellous a seance as ever
fell to the lot of mortal to record, under the most rigid and
strict test conditions. Ere I close I must add that Mrs. Regan’s
brother continued his narration, through the young medium,
at our abode two nights later, the 25th inst., to the above
eventful seance—thus fulfilling his promise then given, and
confirming an extraordinary test of spirit identity.
James Regan.
4, Stanley Villas, Northcote Road, New Wandsworfh.
[This letter says that the amount of light at the seance was equal to a
‘1 glimmer,” and does not give a critical description of the features of the
spirits as seen by all the sitters at the same time. Was it, therefore, one
of the ordinary materialisation seances, in which the “double” of the medium
took a leading part?—Ed.]
THE COMING BAZAAR.
Sir,—Allow me through the medium of your columns to
thank most sincerely our numerous friends for their ready
acquiescence in our proposed bazaar, and for their kind and
willing co-operation; I certainly did not expect we should get
such numerous offers of help, as our time and channels of
making it known are limited; but, when I remember that
our invisible friends are working for us, and impressing
those into whose sphere they can enter, I am not at all sur¬
prised, but have very sanguine prospects of a great success,
well knowing they can work where we cannot, and work
well, too.
As the National Association was at first promulgated by our
spirit friends, they will be sure to find means of carrying out
their own work. Although it is called “ National,” it is to all
intents and purposes a spiritual association, for a few of us
well know that spirit influence has been at work all through.
I did not at first intend to have mentioned this, but I know
that by some of our intimate friends it will be heard with
great pleasure ; and, when I think of the ready and willing
aid we have received from every one to whom I have men¬
tioned the objects of the bazaar, no wonder need be expressed
at the hearty response to our call. We hope our friends in the
provinces will send a goodly supply, as I should like them to
be well represented. Remember, friends, this is the first
bazaar held among Spiritualists. Let it be a good one, for
the object of it is not the mere gain of worldly guineas, but
to help the dissemination of the knowledge, of the highest
spiritual .truths among our fellow-creatures. It will be pleasing
to most of your readers to know that in little more than twelve
months the British National Association of Spiritualists has
become an influential and powerful body of practical, disin¬
terested hard workers; and as Spiritualists generally are be¬
ginning to see the necessity of uniting together, I have no
doubt the Association will be an organ of great usefulness for
the spread of spiritual truth. M. A. Evebitt.
Lilian Villa, Hendon, N.'W.
MRS. TAPPAN’S LECTURES.
Sir,—In the absence of the secretary, I am desired to for¬
ward you the appended notice. Mrs. Ann Strawbridge.
84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton, 6th April, 1875.
“ The guides of Mrs. Tappan, finding that she needs
an interval of rest, beg the committee to announce that the
third series of addresses will not commence until the first
Sunday in May.”
Mrs. Tappan’s present address is 84, Redcliffe-gardens,
West Brompton. We regret to learn, from a letter in this
issue,that she is unwell.
Last Monday night Mr. T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., delivered a
lecture on “Modern Spiritual Phenomena” at the Freemasons’
Hall, Newgate-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s narrative about “ Pearls
at Seances" has been republished from these pages in Common
Sense (San Francisco) and The Religio-Philosophical Journal
(Chicago),
Mr. John Parkin writes that he is almost the only
Spiritualist in Barnsley, and that when Dr. Monck heard it,
he visited the town, and without remuneration delivered a
lecture at the Mechanics’ Hall on Good Friday.
Healing Mediemship in Liverpool.—Particulars have
been forwarded us of the cure by mesmerism of Mr. James
Mitchell, of 7, Constance-street, Liverpool, by Mr.. Coates, of
the Liverpool Psychopathic Institution. Mr. Mitchell had
been in bed for three days from an attack of erysipelas in the
head, his face being so swollen that he was completely blind of
one eye. Mr. Coates cured him by mesmerising him on three
separate days pnly. Mesmerism costs little or nothing, and
requires the use of no blisters or physic, which are perhaps the
reasons why the general public object to try so powerful a
remedial agent.
Passed to Spirit Life.—Mr. Edwards, of 36, Fielding-
street, Liverpool, writes that Mr. Edward James Bowen, an
energetic Spiritualist, formerly a member of the Liverpool
Psychological Society, has departed this life. His body was
consigned to the grave on Wednesday morning, the 22nd
March, at 10.30 a.m., in Smith down-lane Cemetery, and wasfol-
lowed there by his father, brother-in-law, and three other
gentlemen. Among the Spiritualists present were Mr. Mere¬
dith, Mr. Archibald Lament, and Mr. Coates. The latter
gentleman, who is one of the local mediums, was entranced
by the side of the grave, and delivered an appropriate address,
followed by an invocation. At Mr. Bowen’s residence some
most remarkable spiritual phenomena occurred up to the time
of his passing away. He was highly respected by those who
knew him, being steadfast and upright in character; he
leaves a wife, two little ones, and a host of friends to regret his
departure. Mr. Bowen’s presence has been felt at one or two
circles since his translation to the higher life.
180
"THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 9, 1875.
MATERIALISED SPIRITS IN CHESTER-LE-
STREET.
To the Editor of the “ Chester-le-Street Times," April Brd.
Sir,—Kindly supply me with space while I record the fol¬
lowing startling facts, which for the benefit of sceptical indi¬
viduals ought to be widely known. On Monday,• March 29th,
the Chester-le-Street Psychological Society convened a
circle for materialisations, at, the house of a Mr. G. Graham,
when the following persons attended—Mr. Robert Robson, Mr.
T. Patterson, Mr. F. Langley, Miss Millington, Mr. W. H.
Robinson, Mr. W. Petty, and the medium, Mrs. E. Petty, of
Newcastle.
An ordinary clothes-horse was made to do duty for the
cabinet, over which was suspended a pair of ordinary bed
quilts, and inside was a pillow on which the medium reclined.
The hastily constructed cabinet was placed in a triangular
position, while over the opening was hung a dark shawl. It
is but right to state that before the medium took her place in
the cabinet, she offered.to submit to any test the sitters might
choose as a guarantee of honesty, but after an inspection of
the cabinet, the sitters unanimously declined any test. Nine
chairs were then arranged in rotation about five feet from the
opening, the light (a paraffine lamp) was reduced, and the room
placed in a state of semi-darkness. The circle then after
prayer sang Watts’ plaintive hymn, “ There is a land of pure
delight,” after which “Emma” informed us through the
medium, that she would show herself in a short time, and
made some complimentary remarks on the spiritual harmony
which characterised the circle, remarking especially on the
necessity for prayer and ardent faith, to ensure the highest
manifestations. “ My Jesus, I love thee,” was then sung,
when the shawl was seen gradually to open, and a beautiful
female form slowly advanced into the middle of the circle, the
head was veiled, while a graceful robe reached down to the
feet. With an expressive whisper she requested us to sing,
and while doing so she approached Mr. Robinson, shook hands,
patted his head, then took the left hand and kissed it dis¬
tinctly three times. She knelt in the attitude of prayer, and
waved her hand, but what was most remarkable, the form
began to de-materialise before our eyes, until apparently only
a white substance remained; then we witnessed it gradually re¬
form until it assumed its previous beautiful shape and size.
In reply to one of the sitters she clapped her hands three
times, knocked on the floor with her feet, and then returned to
the cabinet. . ,
After a short interval there emerged the full figure of a man
attired in a flowing robe, and something like a girdle round
his body; a kind of turban surrounded his head. The figure
approached Mr. Graham and gazed lovingly into his face, it
sobbed, embraced, and kissed him|; the identity of the spirit
was manifest to all the sitters, as the features were none other
than those of a dear friend who died some time ago. The
spirit then took a chair, and sat down opposite the afore¬
named gentleman, and entered into a conversation with him ;
most of the sentences were uttered in a loud whisper, and were
distinctly heard by the circle. Many little incidents were re¬
ferred to which had passed between the two during life, and
among the sentences heard were “ It is a glorious immortality,”
“ I live, I love friends,” “ It is a grand truth, a grand truth,”
“ Be faithful, and I will welcome you on that blest shore.” Mr.
Graham then tapped him on the shoulders, when another
friend asked to shake hands. The spirit went into the cabinet
to get more power from the medium, and then emerged at a
quick pace across the room to the questioner, and shook hands
and patted the head in a loving manner, he then took the left
hand of Mr. Robinson, and shook it, and stroked his face
twice—after a while he resumed the conversation with Mr.
Graham; he then returned to the cabinet, and we were in¬
formed by “Emma” that they would dis entrance the medium,
as the power which they used was becoming exhausted.
It may be interesting to the Christian public to mention that
we were informed that the same law existed in the spirit world
as in this with regard to prayer, that our prayers assisted them
in the same degree as their (the spirits) prayers assisted us on
this sphere, also the same life principle He established here
of calling sinners to repentance through faith in Christ, was in
active operation on the other side.. During the
seance several very beautiful “ spirit lights ” were seen darting
across the room, our attention having been called to them by
the spirits. They seemed to be of a purple and bluish colour,
but emitted no rays. W. H. Robinson.
We, the undersigned, certify that the above is a correct re¬
port of the seance held on Monday last—George Graham,
Robert Robson, Francis Langley, William H. Robinson,
Thomas Patterson, Joseph Petty, William Petty.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
C. Reimees, Manchester, and C. W. Pearce, Brixton.—Your
letters are in type but publication unavoidably postponed till
next week. Several other letters, which are too long, will be
printed when space can be found. 1
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
THE object of the Committee and of the Members gene¬
rally is, to spread abroad a knowledge of the great and precious
truths of Spiritualism. We unite and labour for this purpose, and ear¬
nestly hope for the co-operation of all who are solicitous that their fellow-
men should become acquainted with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-com¬
munion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, lion. Secretary.
PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
—The inaugural meeting of the Society will be held on Wednesday,
April 14th, 1875, at the Rooms of the Architectural Society, 9, Conduit-
street, W. The chair will be taken at 8.30 precisely. The president pro
tem., Mr. Serjeant Cox, will open the proceedings with an address on
“The Province of Psychologydetailing the plans and purposes of the
Society, to be followed by a discussion on the same subject. Cards of invita¬
tion to visitors may he had on application by post to Francis K. Minton,
the hon. secretary, 21, Montague-street, Russell-square.
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE'
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 and 26 Viet., cap. 89.)
OFFICES42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.O.
An Assurance of £1,000 can be effected by payment oj a Single Pre¬
mium of £3 .covering the whole Life. Profits Divided amongst the
Members.
Agent—Mr. THOMAS BLYTON, 12, St. Phillip’s-road, Dalston, London,
E., of whom Prospectuses and all information can be obtained on applica¬
tion.
A YOUNG LADY aged 30, living with her brother, a
professional man, in the North of England, desires the companion¬
ship of a lady about her own age, who seeks a refined and comfortable
home. It is necessary that she should be very cheerful, also well-bred,
and well-informed, though not necessarily a Spiritualist. No salary. Re¬
ferences will be given and required. Address with full particulars in the
first instance to Alpha, care of Mrs. Woodforde, 41, Bernard-street,
Russell-square, London, W.C.
’ ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, ana
umbrellas.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London.—SiMPkiN, Marshall & Co.
A BOOK FOR THE MILLION.
Read the following from “ The London Review."
The Two Discoveries; or, Key to Pine’s Spiritual Telegraph. By
Clement Pine. London: Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and of the
Author at Bridgwater. Price Is. By post, Is. Id.
Spiritualism has become one of the most absorbing studies of the day.
Enquiring minds long to pierce its hidden mysteries, and fathom its mys¬
terious depths. Those endowed with the highest attributes have been and
are the most diligent searchers into the veiled and sacred spirit-world.
The author of the above soul-absorbing work claims for it the wonderful
power of unlocking the abstruse labyrinths of mathematical science,
enabling everyone, who values the privilege, to converse as freely with
friends in spirit-life as when they were on earth. We must certainly say
that the book is a curious, original, and thoughtful one, which will amply
repay an attentive perusal. It is replete with the most startling evidences
of the truth of Spiritualism, and the author’s spirit of sincerity permeates
every page. The appendix more especially proves the writer to be a man
of deep learning, profound thought, and a most able mathematician; his
facts are incontrovertible, his reasoning sound, and his deductions clear and
logical. We cordially and strongly recommend this, the most original
book of the day, to the perusal of our readers ; and congratulate the author
upon producing a work so replete with information, and of such absorbing
interest-as the “Two Discoveries.’’
April 9, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND OLAIRYOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-squaro, W.O.,
"R. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
_ daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission .2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, (will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in "Writing, Drawing, Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship,
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended,
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
'1I> OBERT HARPER is now sufficiently free from busi
_L\f ness engagements to undertake LECTURING and HEALING.—
R. H. has been a close student under many eminent professors in the great
Spiritual University for 14 years. He is willing to communicate what he
has thus acquired, by Lecturing upon the Higher Branches of the Spiritual
Science, to any who may desire his services. The Terms will be made
suitable to the poorest Societies, and may be learnt on application. Address
Soho-hill, Birmingham.
R. W. Gh SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
n application by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon fas engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15.
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re
ceive engagements to lecture.
Messrs, harry bastian and malcolm
TAYLOR, Physical and Mental Test Mediums, from America.-
PARLOUR SEANCES every evening except Tuesday, Friday,
Sunday, at 2, Vernon-place, Bloomsbury-square.
8 o’clock. For private seances, address as above.
and
Tickets, 5s. each; hour
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Trance mediumship for family business
and Other Tests, Healing or Development, by Spirit Mesmerism, &c.
Mr. Olive, 49, Belmont-street, Chalk Farm-road, N.W. Six years practice.
Terms—21s. per private seance.
A public seance at above address on Tuesday evenings, at 7 o’clock,
admission 2s. 6d. Also at 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, on Mondays
at 3 p.m.
"VP
"OTICE MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDLER, Professor
of Curative (Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily] from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
Fparkes, spiritualist photographer.
• Sittings a la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sitting. Address, 6, Gay.aes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
JBow, E.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modem magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-bill, B.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
itz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs.. 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.U., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.O
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., DouglasHonse, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W; N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Ohinnery, Samuel, Esq., 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice. D.D., 44,Netherwood-rd., WestKensington-pk., W
Dawe, N. F., 8, Marlborough-road, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwieh.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester,
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, M.S. TeLE, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. &., 6, Loughhorough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
James, Capt. J., Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.G.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex. •
Mawsob, w. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Nosworthy, Mrs.F. A., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Noyes, T. Herbert, Jun., J.P., Olub-ehambers, Regent street.
Regan, James^ 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stoekwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., fee., 17, Trafalgar-road, OldKdnt-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-creseent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. "W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, "W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-vUla, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N."W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall ’
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron YonVay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
’The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St.- Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg. _
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York; U.S., America.
A. J. Rlko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, TJ.S.
M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J.Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia.
Mrs'Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, TJ.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearycband Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Bebeea, East Indian Railway, Bengal,
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S. A.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell'
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid -
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris,
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veil, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme G. de Veb, 26, Avenue des Cliamps-Elysees, Paris.
Gr. C. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
Dr. Franz Hoffmann; Wurzburg, Bavaria.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria;
Dr. G. L. Ditson, Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Capo Town, Africa,
IV
THE ,SPIRITUALIST.
AfgniLj 9, 1875.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigatioii because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised'countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not ai&w periodicals. '* *
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-streetJPActalphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on thte 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq. ; i.Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman,4Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D.' * D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S. •/•Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M*.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; BobertsHannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner^Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, ESq.,
M.B.G.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac,L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss,'Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; ThomastBeed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq:;,Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George'Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Dry^dade and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“ George. Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jeneke’n, Esq, Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq, Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence,"-forms a'bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported'
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and'walls .of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptibleito the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con-'
trivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular farce by those
present, and frequently without contact oh connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent comfnunications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary-object, , having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit, circles, in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional .medium present.'.
Should no results ^be obtained , on the first occasion, try again:,with,other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing,
it are to be found in nearly every household. j , , s A.
1. Let the- room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made, that nobody shall enter it, and.that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of,the, circle. - , r.,<»
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number ’of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table,'with all .the-
palms ofi the hands in contact with-its* top surface. . Whether the hands
touch each other or pot is usually of .no importance. Any table .will dp,'
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal,
of a hand from the table for a few .seconds does no harm, but when one of;
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations. r
3. Before the sitting begins, place’some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained. . . , «.,.•> ♦
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet, known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver- '
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of.the circle gives,
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to .the .table as-to-an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean " Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean’“Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say,'“If-1
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?;’ Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance-j
“THE SPIRIT;UALLST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record qfthe'Science and Ethics of Spiritualism:
PUBLISHED WEEKLY* PBICE TWOPENCE.
i - ESTASLISHpip IN 1869. ,
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with thh movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised qrgah, of educate Spiritualists in alb the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe ; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe, 'I -' *. ,, rL
The Contributors to Its,-pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists,'includingmany eminent in the ranks^of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the_Peerage._ Among those^who have*published
their names in connectibn.with thenTcommunications in its.columns are
Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.'S7; MrrTWilliam Crookes, F.B.S.,’Editbr of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who,admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, ,1874, expressed no opinion f asido their
cause); Mr. Alfred B. Wallace, theiNaturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The rCQUij.|iess of Caithness; Count dedMedina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the HOn.,KBpbert Dale Owen (New York); Mr.'Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.);-Siri.Charles Islam, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. -Mjdtdougall Gregory; the Hon. ■ Alexander
Aksakof, Bussian Imperial ComfciUor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); Bakoness Adelma Vay (Austria);'"Mrl- H,
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Lav<;ffi»Mi\sStanhope Templeman -Speer, ^M.D.
(Edin.) ; Mr. J. C. Luxmoore’-^SIrb John E. PurdCn!)M!.B.^(India);4Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin' Colbnlan ;'Mr. Charles*Blackburn; *Mr.*St.
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon)1;'’MT.'5James Wason jyMrAN? Fabyan Dawe;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Bey.>C. Maurice Davies,*D.D.,' Author 'of ’'Unor¬
thodox London; Mr. S. C. Hall^F.S.A." Mr. H. D. Jeacken(M'.BvI.,4Bavris-
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy^Mr.-D. H. Wilson,*.M.A., LL«M.;*Mrj.C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F:\A.jNosworthy; Mr.,Williamt.Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury ; Miss A. Black^wTxParis); Mrs. F. Showers;' Mr. J.'-'N^T.
iMartheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles’OJ&fit'e'drSfates) ; Mr. W.Xindesay Bichardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many»om'§ffla’dies and gentlemen. • - - ; .
• TO ENaUlR^fe,:iNTO SPIRITUALISM. ,
ONE of the most,compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of • The [Spiritualist, price
,4d. or 4£d. post free. It is a ntunber compiled specially for the information
! of enquirers, and will give/fEema very large amount of information at, a
|cheap rate. This numtiBrlofi Tht'-SfavrUtmlist is .of special value,for.sale at
jthe doors,at public meetingp connected with Spiritualism, so, copies should'
ibe kept on hand by psycholQgical.socioties ,in.all parts,of, the United King-
idom. London: E. W. AUen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
! NORTHERN DEPOT FOB-THE. SALE OF SPIRITUAL j LITERATURE
v r49, Grainger^s,t^eei,.Ne,wcastle-on-Tyne, ^ ,
’ J7 ' BLAKE fespe'ctfullyr iiifoi'mis ' the \ friends of
• $ Spiritualism in the'Softh that he obtains all‘thb'principal sefials
{oh'Spiritnalism, for which'-fre wlll be^glad 'to'receive subscribers’ ■'names'.'
IBppkS1 not (nr stock obtained at sho'rt/notice.f • A’g.fentifor'the’ sale of-the
\FpivUpalist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, \ Human (Nature,\ &e(; &c. Spb-
; sender's’names received fpr,therDiaiectical Society,’s^Beport at the reduced
price',7s} Gd. Single copies, may be.prdered. ' Teyms cashj’postage extra. ,
E. J. BLAKE (successor to Mr.-BARK AS),
Newcastlo-dn-Tyne‘., , ,, ,
, Published on the First,of each Month., .Price Twopence. -, ,
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
j b...-: . EDITED BY GEORGE ."SEXTON, M. A., L.L.D. -
\Hondrdry and corresponding FelldWof theRoyal Italian\Academy of Science, tbc.
Each numbel contains inter alia—.. ,
j An Oration, by the Editor/ Original Articles on some Phase(of, Spiritual-,
ism.' Leaves from the Editor’s Note Bt>6k.'" Reports of Lectures,’ Meetings,i
\Sednces. Reviews of New Books and Publications..'Spiritual News, Poetry,,
(Correspondence, &c. ■'
, Published by F^Ambld, 86,' Fleet-street, London. E.C. , , ..
The - spiritual, .and . psychopathic 'C insti- ;
TUTE, 1, Dunkel/l-street (opposite' Emmanuel Church),' West
iDerby-road, Liverpool.1 ll a’.m'.'toA'p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
!perarrangement.) J. anS4L'r]3'.:G6ATES,<!Prw&p'df«.' * •
THE PROGRESSlYEi SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT AD YOCATE,ia Monthly Journal.: Edited by J. TyErmIn, *
Price Threepence. To behad of W; H. Terry, 96, Russell-street; Melbourne.1
and all Australian Booksellers; .
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
E‘ MANUEL SWEDENBORG: HIS' LIFE* AND
WRITING. ‘ By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the .History* the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede, are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forthalso the singular Origin’and'Cbndition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is_ illustrated with _Fpur Steel JEngfav-
ings, by C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Sbara. > iL’Emmahuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. IH. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm.'IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80. I. ' H,' VW If
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co. - , ... --
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at theiHolbomt Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish.of - St.j Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W,.
ALLEN, Ave Maria-lane London E.C," • . \w. V ' ' !
