Registered as a Newspaper.
j 0 l.' l] VL 0^ ^dlS<Kd^.
n ©Itef rxrn:md^!£r toit^ Spintwalxsttt xit Sxtnt ^xiiam,
THE “ SPIRITUALIST” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazienale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK :
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
No. 232. (VOL. X.—No. 5.) LONDON J FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontents.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
6PIRITU ALISTS.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
The Last Slade Case and its Lessons 49
Ecstasy. By Eugene Crowell, M.D. Ectasy among the
Waldenses—Ecstasy from the Use of Narcotics—An
Ecstatic Vision of Heaven       50
Ancient and Modem. By Emily Kislingbury...   52
Spiritualism in Dalston ... ...  53
The Case of William Lawrence  ... 53
The British Association for the Advancement of Science... 54
Spiritualism and Men of Science   ... 54
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Winter Meet¬
ings        54
A New Prosecution of Messrs. Slade and Simmons:—Mr.
Flowers Demurs to the Attack  55
Dr. Slade on the Continent .... ...  55
Illness of Dr. Slade  ... '. 55
Poetry:—Poetical Inspiration. A Vision of Death  56
Correspondence:—Mr. Andrew Leighton’s Advocacy of
Spiritualism—Is it “Psychic Force" or “ Spirit Power?"
—Are Apparitions Materialised Forms ?—Emigration
to America—Help for Mrs. Lawrence—Spiritualism in
Chicago—Spirit Identity—Mr. William Lawrence  56
A Medium Honestly Tested by Daily Newspaper Men...' ... 58
The End of the Last Siade Case 58
The Slade and Galileo Persecutions. By Jane H. Douglas 58
A Sermon on the Nature of Spirit ... '   ...  60
The Late Andrew Leighton ... ... '   60
A Public Seance in Newcastle...    60
Answers to Correspondents     ... 60
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism in Lancashire, 49; Mr. J. J.
Morse in Birmingham, 53; Edward Bullock, 55; A
Mental Question Answered  ... ...    ... 59
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
A oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United. Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F- Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;NHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, E.G.S.Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Iskam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryatj: Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law: C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital • Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Bdin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood: Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the "Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A, LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. Wilham Oxley; Miss Kisling¬
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles [(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the UnitedDKingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, '4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby arid Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston,. U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for February, 1877.
Friday, 2nd.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
■ „ Private Seance, at 7.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 1th.—Soiree at 38. Great Russell Street, at
7 p.m. Music, Conversation and Refresh¬
ments. Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is. ,
Thursday, 8<A—Conference Meetings, at 3.30 and 8 p.m.
Friday, 9th.— „ at 3.30 and 8 p.m.
Monday, 121*.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m.
Tuesday, \Zth.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ • Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, VUh.—^Experimental Research Committes, at 6.30
p.m.
„ Private Seance at 7.30 p.m.
Thursday, 22nd.—Soiree Committee at 6 p.m.
„ House and Offices Committee, at 6.30 p.m.
. „ Seance Committee, at 7 p.m.
Monday, 29th.—Conference Committee, at 7 p.m.
„ Fortni&htly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m.
SEANCES.
A new series of Free Circles for Inquirers is in course of
arrangement, tickets for which can he purchased by fnembers
at a nominal charge. Another course of Private Seances, for
Members only, will be also commenced shortly. Tickets,
2s. 6d. each.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A GENERAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
WILL BE HELD IN LONDON, AT
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
On the 8th and 9th of February, 1877.
Papers will be read in the following order:—
Thursday, at 3.30 p.m.
The Scientific Aspects of Spiritualism. MR. T. P. BARKAS.
Spirit Photography: a Refutation of Pseudo-Scientiflc
Theories. Mr. T. Shorter.
Thursday, at 8 p.m.
The Progress of Spiritualism, and the National and Local
Organisations of Spiritualists. Mr. R. Pearce.
Friday, at 3.30 p.m.
The Relation of the Law to Public Mediums.
Mr. W. H. Harrison.
The Identity of Communicating Spirits. Mr. G. F. Green.
Friday, at 8 p.m.
The Ends, Aims, and Uses of Modem Spiritualism.
Mrs. Louisa Lowe.
Experiences with Haunting Spirits. Mr. A. J. Smart.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY MEETINGS.
The next Fortnightly Meeting of the British National
Association of Spiritualists will be held on Monday next,
29th instant, at 8 p.m. SubjectAdjourned Discussion on
Dr. Carter Blake’s Paper, “Ancient Thought and Modern
Spiritualism.”
The meetings are free to Members and their friends.
E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists,
President.
HENRF D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Refbrm and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
acts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by vanous weans, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The Tost Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus¬
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
formation of circles and conduct of seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary. . . .
Subscription for Ordinary Mtmba'ship:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
ri^HE SEVENTH QUARTERLY CON-
L FERENOE OF LANCASHIRE SPIRITUALISTS.—
THE SEVENTH QUARTERLY CONFERENCE of the Lan¬
caster Spiritualists, will be held in the Temperance Hall,
Grosvenor-street, Manchester, on Sunday, the 4th of February.
1. The Conference will meet at 10.30 in the morning, when the
election of the Council, Committee, General Representatives,
Secretary, and Treasurer, will take place. The Secretary’s re¬
port will be read, general reports received, and any new plans to
further develop and improve the organisation and work of the
Committee will be discussed. 2. In the afternoon. Mr. John
Lamont, of Liverpool, and (Miss Longbottom, of Halifax, to¬
gether with the local speakers, will occupy the platform, and
give addresses on subjects relative to Spiritualism. 3. In the
evening, at 6.30, Miss Longbottom. of Halifax, will occupy the
platform, and with the help of her guides will give a trance
address. A collectioe will be made atjthe close of each service
to enable the Committee to meet the expenses of the day and
Conference. Tea will a’so be provided in the Hall. Tickets to
be had at the Conference, 9d. each.
E
AST
END SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION,
15, St. Peter’s Road, Mile End, E.
THE FIRST QUARTERLY TEA MEETING
Will be held at the above Institution, on Sunday, February
4th. Tea at 5 p.m.; to be followed by a Conference on “ The
Present Position of Spiritualism,” to commence at 7 o’clock.
Tickets for tea, Is. each. Conference free. Several mediums
expected. Friends will oblige by applying for tickets before
the above date. E. W. Wallis, Manager.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote .the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.,
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seanee, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
BIREBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances; Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will he thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
Just published, 2s. paper coVers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE : described by
a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
WANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the hook and newspaper trade; by E. W
Wallis, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E,
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
,and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
"DEAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
JLtf Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &o., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
ii
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Establish®© 1873.)
President.
Alexander 0 alder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W»
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. MakdougaU,21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 82, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.K.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Jtogers, E. D., Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin It., Heatnlands, Wimbiedon-oommon, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.X)., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason. James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W,r
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 208, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.,
Binney, F A., 22, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 9i, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
CrOslaiid, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Bladk-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd.’J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H-. 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M;S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning. A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.I)., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, 11. T„ 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivjmey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square,- Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
NeWbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D'., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
roact, S E.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Gfanville-park, Blackheath, S.E. '
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensieigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
"Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., PostsRestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wlthall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Eonorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. ] Mr. Morell Theobald,
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness AdelmaYon Vay, Gonobitz, bel Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.”
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A. "
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Snear, 2210, Mount Vcmon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes, Esq., 5, Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 2, 1877.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de I’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan,Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-piace, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
MRS. OLIYE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
aro discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
Mr. j, j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
"Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
■^/rDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
J-t JL At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
Paris.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Ncwlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirits etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. 0. Emery, Esq., St.
Mayy-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—Eli Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
SoetedadlEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lament, Mr. Merddith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
'R. DE CAUX, Mesmeric Healer, and
Medical Galvinist, attends upon patients at their own
residence, or at his rooms—35, Alfred-street, Bedford-square,
London, W.C.
'RS. KANE AT HOME Tuesdays, Thurs-
, , ^ days, and Saturdays from three to five o’clock.—34
Guildford-street, Russell-square, London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
BRIGHTON. — APARTMENTS, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &o. Address, “Spiritualist," 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a Special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists,
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance,
Manages—Mrs. a. C. Busks
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EYIDENOE ON BOTH SIDES,
WHICH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.8.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin; Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. C. O. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.8.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. G. C. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Slade.—2Jd., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.C. Price Id.; post free for l£d.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
rnHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
JL GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
/CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
'\XTHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
V V UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 8s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book’’ will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tayistock-square, W.C.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI-
-CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, II, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H,
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
T> EYUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyeho-
-JL«l logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Socidti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription,, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Now Ready.—Fifty-seventh Year.
APHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC &
MESSENGER for 1877. Post free Seven Stamps; or,
with Ephermis, Thirteen Stamps.
London: Catty and Dobson, 1, Ivy Lane, E.C,
Volujvie Tejm. Number Five.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2nd, 1877.
THE LAST SLADE CASE AND ITS LESSONS.
The last Slade case has come to an abrupt termination, in
consequence of the words “by palmistry or otherwise” having
been left out of the indictment. This omission was not due
to a clerical error as set forth by a leading article in the
Daily Telegraph, but the words were, according to Mr.
Staveley Hill, omitted “ advisedly.” Had the words been
retained the result in all probability would have been the
same, for even on the erroneous assumption that there 1 ad
been some imposture in the matter it clearly was not
palmistry or anything related thereto, palmistry being “ tell¬
ing fortunes by the lines of the hand.” From the first, so far
as we know, it has been universally believed in the legal
profession that the decision of Mr. Flowers was bad law.
These technical points might have been carried by Hr. Slade
to the Court of Queen’s Bench for decision, and it would
have been a much less expensive step than the one adopted
of taking the case before the Quarter Sessions, but he had
no desire to obtain his freedom on a technical point. He
would rather that the case had been heard on its own merits,
so far as such a thing was possible.
The practical influence upon Spiritualism itself of this
prosecution has, of course, been a vast amount of abuse from
the uninformed and from those journals which represent the
less thoughtful section of society. This, however, is merely
clamour, and the more substantial results have been that
a large amount of information has been unwillingly dis¬
seminated among the general public as to the reality of
Spiritualism and its phenomena. A broad spirit of inquiry
has arisen, and never before during the dead season has so
much interest been manifested in the subject by outsiders,
or has the circulation of the Spiritualist periodicals increased
so rapidly.
What should be done for the future in consequence of the
experience gained by the recent prosecutions ? It seems to
be beyond question that it is the duty of the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists to take prompt steps to secure the
movement in this country from future expenses and annoy¬
ances of the same kind, and to guard genuine and trust¬
worthy mediums from unjust persecution. This can be done by
officially announcing that if any medium shall expose himself
to a prosecution by admitting to his seances those who would
take such steps against him, he must pay the penalty of his
own carelessness, for the movement will feel under no moral
obligation to take any steps for his defence. Of course, this
means that he or his agent shall not take money from dis¬
believers. This, in any case, cannot be a great loss, and
need not be a loss at all to the few recognised professional
mediums we possess, because at present they are more
engaged by Spiritualists than by disbelievers, and if the latter
are shut out from access to the mediums on payment, their
only way of witnessing manifestations will be to ask admis¬
sion to the seances at the private homes of Spiritualists as a
matter of grace and favour. Just at present it would be well
if regular weekly or fortnightly engagements, extending
over three months, were given by prominent Spiritualists to
professional mediums of good character. The practice pre¬
vails to a small extent among those who cannot afford to
pay mediums, of inviting a few friends and inquirers to a
particular seance, and sharing the expenses between them ;
anybody who does so probably runs the risk of a vexatious
prosecution at law, if on these terms he admits a single
observer who attends with bad motives.
The system now suggested, of not admitting the public
promiscuously, is one that has often been advocated in this
journal, on the scientific ground that when mediums are not
worried by roughs ignorant of the facts, and who break all
the laws favouring their evolution, the phenomena develope
with great rapidity, and better manifestations are obtained.
Thus, those who are making a real and earnest study of the
subject can make quicker headway and be subject to fewer
annoyances if they more rigorously exclude the public, and
more strenuously recommend novices to form circles in their
own homes.
Another step which should be taken without delay by the
National Association of Spiritualists is that of informing
the public that in America, if not in England, certain
mediums possessing genuine powers set up as conjurors
and exposers for the sake of making money ; consequently,
that they impose upon the public and slander Spiritualists
at the same time. The public should be officially informed
that these swindlers are not able, no matter what reward is
offered them, to show the method by which their alleged
tricks are done, although they are needy individuals. Of
course none but an experienced Spiritualist is competent to
detect these men, and the public pay the penalty of igno¬
rance. There was a time when any man who was considered
specially intelligent by his friends could take a party to the
cleverest of conjuring exhibitions, and explain to his ad¬
miring companions how everything was done; but those
halcyon days have gone, for when one of these observers
now witnesses real mediumship, mixed up with good illu¬
sions of a scientific character, he is confronted by problems
which he is unable to solve.
While in the future as in the past, the best plan is to
confine the study of Spiritualism very much to private life,
the area of its influence may be widened by publishing and
circulating everywhere instructions “ How to Form Spirit
Circles at Home.” A million small leaflets three or four
inches square for gratuitous distribution might be printed at
small cost, and information calculated to remove popular
errors might be similarly disseminated. The National
Association ought to have done something in this way last
month, instead of being totally inactive in this direction.
Instructions how to form circles may be condensed into a
very short newspaper advertisement as exemplified in the
following specimen: —
Home Experiments.—No Cost.—Test-table-rapping at home with
no Spiritualist present. Let from three to seven persons of both sexes
sit with their hands upon any table, from 15 to 30 minutes, singing oc¬
casionally. When raps or table motions begin, repeat the alphabet
slowly, and a signal will be given at each letter of a message. About
one such new circle in three obtains the phenomena.
If Spiritualists all over the country would put the above
advertisement in those journals in which they take an in¬
terest, it would raise up new mediums all over the country,
and the number of families would be increased who regularly
in their own homes obtain phenomena which scientific
authorities tell them do not take place. Thus may the base
of the movement be widened and strengthened, without
trouble to anybody.
The striking difference between Egyptian and Greek ideas respecting
the soul’s habitation after the death of the body is portrayed in a couple
of paragraphs in the El Criterio, where it says that the former pre¬
served the body with the expectation that so long as it maintained its
form the spirit would abide with it, while the latter burned the corpse
that the spirit might the sooner reach its celestial home.
Spiritualism in Lancashire.—Mr. W. Johnson and Mr. John
Hartley write : “ Organisation is the basis of all efficient movements,
whether social or political. The Lancashire Spiritualists have deter¬
mined that a more vigorous organising policy shall be commenced
at once, for the purpose of enabling every town where there are a few
Spiritualists only, to hold regular Sunday services and week-night
classes for research and discussion in connection with the subject."
There is scarcely a town or village in the district which the Lancashire
Committee has not already visited, and sown the first seeds. Organi¬
sation would aid the progress of Spiritualism in these places.” A
Conference of Spiritualists will be held in the Temperance Hall,
Grosvenor-street,* Manchester, next Sunday, at 10.30 a.m.
50
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Ebb. 2, 1877.
ECSTASY.* j j
BY EUGENE CROWELL, M.D. | (j
That exaltation of the faculties which characterises the I j
state of ecstasy has been observed in many of those religious j
reformers and fanatics who have left their impress on the !{]
history of the race. *J|p
ECSTASY AMONG THE WALDENSES. i|i
Among the Waldenses this condition was not an uncommon j j [
one, and appears to have sometimes affected bodies of men, m
endowing them with superhuman energy and strength. u On j j I
one occasion,” as Mr. Howitt says, :* only seventeen men, |l
of whom only six were armed with slings, drove before them j j
enemies • fifty times more numerous. They defended the j j
little hamlet of Kora, consisting of but fifty houses, for some | i
time against the combined attack of 10,000 men, and when j j
no longer able to resist this overwhelming force, made good j j
their retreat Frequently they succeeded in sallying j j
from the rocks and caverns, in which their enemies were j j
endeavouring to suffocate them with smoke of burning wet l>|
straw or brushwood, or to burn them alive in their retreats, jj]
and chased them down headlong into the plains, till the j I
French and Savoyard troops thought they must be aided by j j
God.” And of the persecuted inhabitants of the Cevennes, j j
the same author remarks :—” The highest calculation gives j j
only 3,000 Cevennois in arms at once. Some authors de- Ijj
clare that there were never more than 2,000; whilst the. j j
king’s troops, disciplined in the great wars of the time, and ||j
the militia, amounted to 60,000 men, commanded by the j j
best generals of France When the wretched people j (j
were driven to desperation ; when the blood-hounds of j j
despotism and the hell-hounds of antichrist surrounded j j
them with fire and artillery, with overwhelming thousands, j j
and with daily and insatiate carnage, then they cried mightily j j
to God, and God came visibly to their rescue. They were seized j j
with an extraordinary power and passion of inspiration. They j (j
were shaken and agitated by it as clairvoyants are moved, j j
and are, as it were, transfigured. Then they broke forth in j |
prophesyings, and declarations of trust in God, in exhorta- j j
tion to prayer and newness of life. They foretold all that
was necessary for their safety and success. It was imme- j j
diately revealed to some one of them where the enemy was j (j
marching against them, and in what numbers, and thus j |
they were always ready to surprise and rout them. Every j j
action was regulated by their oracles, which never failed, j i
Whether they should fight or flee, should hide or advance, j j
was clearly told them. If a traitor came among them, he ivj
was at once pointed out; if their enemies were planning j(j
means for their destruction, they saw them as if present, j j
and heard their discourse. Men, women and children spoke nj
under inspiration, not in the ordinary patois, but in the j j
purest French. Children of only twelve months, and less, >]
who had never before used speech, spoke, to the amaze- j|j
ment of hundreds present.”—Hist, of the Supernatural, vol. ii. 1
pp. 52, 53, 353,; 354.
It was while in this exalted condition of the spiritual and jj
mental faculties that the Convulsionnaires of St. Medard j(j
were able to endure fearful blows upon the chest and j !
stomach—blows which, if delivered upon persons in the j j
ordinary state, would inevitably have resulted in imme- j!
diate death—pressure under planks, upon which as many j||
persons would stand as could obtain a foothold ; and j j
Montgeron saw a girl thus pressed with a weight sufficient ||
to crush an ox. j j
Among the early Methodists and the Irvingites, the nj
ecstatic state was often attained, as it was, and even now Kj
is, among the Shakers. There is no doubt that Mahomet j)j
was an ecstatic, and Joan of Arc, George Fox, with many j|j
of his friends, Jacob Bohme, Stilling, and the 11 Seeress of j(|
Prevost” were ecstatics, and ecstasy was quite common j)j
among the early Moravian brethren. jsj
ECSTASY FROM THE USE OF NARCOTICS. K!
That this state, or another strikingly like this, can be
induced by the use of narcotics, and especially by the use of j)j
hasheesh, in certain organisms, is abundantly proved. De j<j
Quincey, in his Confessions, furnishes such proof as to the j?j
effects of opium, and Fitz Hugh Ludlow in The Hasheesh m
* From Crowell’s Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism. i(|
Yol. XI. 1
Eater, proves the same as to hasheesh. The latter writer,
in illustration of the exalted sensibility of his faculties, and
his ability when under the influence of this drug to distin¬
guish between the sounds of two musical instruments when
playing the same part, says on page 162 of the above work:
“A most singular phenomenon occurred while I was in¬
tently listening to the orchestra at the theatre. Singular,
because it seems one of the most striking illustrations I
have ever known of the preternatural activity of sense in
the hasheesh state, and in an analytic direction.
u Seated side by side in the middle of the orchestra, played
two violinists. That they were playing the same part was
evident from their perfect uniformity in bowing; their bows
through the whole piece rose and fell simultaneously, keep¬
ing exactly parallel. A chorus of wind and stringed in¬
struments pealed on both sides of them, and the symphony
was as perfect as possible; yet amid all that harmonious
blending I was able to detect which note came from one
violin, and which from the other, as distinctly as if the
violinists had been playing at the distance of a hundred
feet apart, and with no other instruments discoursing near
them.”
And alluding to the preponderance of the spiritual over
the physical nature, while under the influence of hasheesh,
on page 165, he remarks :—
At the moment of the most rapturous exultation, the
soul hears the outcry of the physical nature pouring up to
its height of vision out of the walls of flesh, and the burden
of that cry is, * I am in pain ! I am finite, though thou art
infinite !’ The cords which bind the two mysterious portions
of our duality together have been stretched to their ultimate
tensity, and the body, for the sake of its own existence, calls
the soul back into the husk which it cannot carry with it.
Oftentimes in the presence of the most ravishing views have
I felt these cords pulling me downward with as distinct a
sensation as if they were real sinews, and compelled to ask
the question: ‘ Is this happiness or torture ?’ Soul and body
have returned opposite verdicts.”
AN ECSTATIC VISION OF HEAVEN.
I will here copy an extremely interesting account of a
trance, the subject of it being the Eev. William Tennent, of
New Brunswick, N.J. The occurrence took place about the
middle of the last century, and the account of it was pub¬
lished in the Christian Library. All the conditions and
characteristics of the trance state are here exemplified, and
in addition to these is the remarkable loss and restoration of
memory. The narrator says :—
51 After a regular course of study in theology Mr. Tennent
was preparing for his examination by the presbytery as a
candidate for the Gospel ministry. His intense application
affected his health, and brought on a pain in his breast, and
a slight hectic. He soon became emaciated, and at length
was like a living skeleton. His life was now threatened.
He was attended by a physician, a young man who was
attached to him by the strictest and warmest friendship.
He grew worse and worse, till little hope of life was left.
In this situation his spirits failed him, and he began to
entertain doubts of his final happiness. He was conversing
one morning with his brother in Latin, on the state of his
soul, when he fainted and died away. After the usual time
he was laid out on a board, according to the common practice
of the country, and the neighbourhood were invited to attend
his funeral on the next day. In the evening his physician
and friend returned from a ride into the country, and was
afflicted beyond measure at the news of his death. He could
not be persuaded that it was certain, and on being told that
one of the persons who had assisted in laying out the body
thought he had observed a little tremor of the flesh under
the arm, although the body was cold and stiff, he endeavoured
to ascertain the fact. He first put his own hand into warm
water to make it as sensible as possible, and then felt under
the arm, and at the heart, and affirmed that he felt an un¬
usual warmth, though no one else could. He had the body
restored to a warm bed, and insisted that the people who had
been invited to the funeral should be requested not to attend.
To this the brother objected as absurd, the eyes being sunk,
the lips discoloured, and the whole body cold and stiff.
However, the doctor finally prevailed, and all probable means
Feb. 2, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
51
were used to discover symptoms of returning life. But the
third day arrived, and no hopes were entertained of success
but by the doctor, who never left him night or day. The
people were again invited, and assembled to attend the
funeral. The doctor still objected, and at last confined his
request for delay to one hour, then to half an hour, and
finally to a quarter of an hour. He had discovered that the
tongue was much swollen, and threatened to crack. He was
endeavouring to soften it by some emollient ointment, put
upon it with a feather, when the brother came in about the
expiration of the last period, and mistaking what the doctor
was doing for an attempt to feed him, manifested some re¬
sentment, and in a spirited tone said : ‘ It is shameful to be
feeding a lifeless corpse,’ and insisted with earnestness that
the funeral should immediately proceed.
At this critical and important moment the body, to the
great alarm and astonishment of all present, opened its eyes
and gave a dreadful groan, and sunk again into apparent
death. This put an end to all thoughts of burying him, and
every effort was again employed in hopes of bringing about
a speedy resuscitation. In about an hour the eyes again
opened, a heavy groan proceeded from the body, and again
all appearance of animation vanished. In another hour life
seemed to return with more power, and a complete revival
took place, to the great joy of the family and friends, and
to the no small astonishment and conviction of very many,
who had been ridiculing the idea of restoring to life a dead
body.
“ Mr. Tennent continued in so weak and low a state for
six weeks that great doubts were entertained of his final re¬
covery. However, after that period he recovered much faster,
but it was about twelve months before he was completely
restored. After he was able to walk the room, and to take
notice of what passed around him, on a Sunday afternoon
his sister, who had stayed from church to atteni him, was
reading in the Bible, when he took notice of it, and asked
her what she had in her hand. She answered that she was
reading the Bible. He replied: i What is the Bible ? I
know not what you mean.’ This affected the sister so much
that she burst into tears, and informed him that he was once
well acquainted with it. On her reporting this to the brother
when he returned, Mr. Tennent was found upon examination
to be totally ignorant of every transaction of his life previous
to his sickness. He could not read -a single word, neither
did he seem to have any idea of what it meant. As soon as
he became capable of attention he was taught to read and
write, as children are usually taught, and afterwards began
to learn the Latin language, under the tuition of his brother.
One day, as he was reciting a lesson in Cornelius Nepos, he
suddenly started, clapped his hand to his head, as if some¬
thing had hurt him, and made a pause. His brother asking
him what was the matter, he said that he felt a sudden
shock in his head, and it now seemed to him as if he had
read that book before. By degrees his recollection was re¬
stored, and he could speak the Latin as fluently as before his
sickness. His memory so completely revived that he gained
a perfect knowledge of the past transactions of his life, as if
no difficulty had previously occurred. This event at the
time made a considerable noise, and afforded not only matter
of serious contemplation to the devout Christian, especially
when connected with what follows in this narration, but
furnished a subject of deep investigation and learned inquiry
to the real philosopher and curious anatomist.
“ The writer of these memoirs was greatly interested by
these uncommon events, and on a favourable occasion ear¬
nestly pressed Mr. Tennent for a minute account of what his
views and apprehensions were, while he lay in this extra¬
ordinary state of suspended animation. He discovered great
reluctance to enter into any explanation of his perceptions
and feelings at this time, but being importunately urged to
do it at length consented, and proceeded with a solemnity
not to be described.
“ ‘ I. was conversing with my brother,’ said he, on 1 the state
of my soul, and the fears I had entertained for my future
welfare. I found myself in an instant in another state of
existence, under the direction of a superior being, who
ordered me to follow him. I was accordingly wafted along,
I know not how, till I beheld at a distance an ineffable glory,
the impression of which on my mind it is impossible to
communicate to mortal man. I immediately reflected on
my happy change, and thought, well, blessed be G-od, I am
safe at last notwithstanding all my fears. I- saw an in¬
numerable host of happy beings surrounding the inexpress¬
ible glory, in acts of adoration and joyous worship, but I
did not see any bodily shape, or representation, in the
glorious appearance. I heard things unutterable. I heard
their songs and hallelujahs of thanksgiving and praise with
unspeakable rapture. I felt joy unutterable and full of glory.
I then applied to my conductor, and requested leave to join
the happy throng, on which he tapped me on the shoulder,
and said, 1 You must return to the earth.’ This seemed like
a sword through my heart. In an instant I recollect to have
seen my brother standing before me, disputing with the
doctor. The three days during which I had appeared life¬
less seemed to me not more than ten or twenty minutes.
The idea of returning to this world of sorrow and trouble
gave me such a shock that I fainted repeatedly.’ He added:
‘ Such was the effect on my mind of what I had seen and
heard, that if it be possible for a human being to live en¬
tirely above the world, and the things of it, for some time
afterwards, I was that person. The ravishing sounds of the
songs and hallelujahs that I heard, and the very words that
were uttered, were not out of my ears when awake for at
least three years. All the kingdoms of the earth were in
my sight as nothing and vanity, and so great were my
ideas of heavenly glory, that nothing which did not in
some measure relate to it could command my serious at¬
tention.’
“It is not surprising that after so affecting an account
strong solicitude should have been felt for further informa¬
tion as to the words, or at least the subjects, of praise and
adoration which Mr. Tennent had heard. But when he was
requested to communicate these he gave a decided negative,
adding: i You will know them, with many other particulars,
hereafter, as you will find the whole among my papers,’
alluding to his intention of leaving the writer hereof his
executor, which precluded any further solicitation.
“ The author has been particularly solicitous to obtain
every confirmation of this extraordinary event in the life of
Mr. Tennent. He accordingly wrote to every person he
could think of likely to have conversed with Mr. Tennent on
the subject. He received several answers, but the following
letter, from the worthy successor of Mr. Tennent in the
pastoral charge of his church, will answer the author’s
purpose:—
“ Monmouth, N. J., December 10, 1805.
| Dear Sir,—According to your request I now send you in
writing the remarkable account which I sometime since gave
you verbally respecting your good friend, my worthy prede¬
cessor, the late Rev. William Tennent, of this place.
“ In a very free and feeling conversation on religion, and
on the future rest and blessedness of the people of God
(while travelling together from Monmouth to Princeton), I
mentioned to Mr. Tennent that I should be highly gratified
in hearing from his own mouth an account of the trance
which he was said to have been in, unless the relation would
be disagreeable to himself. After a short silence he pro¬
ceeded, saying that he had been sick with a fever, that the
fever increased, and he by degrees sunk under, it. After
some time (as his friends informed him) he died, or ap¬
peared to die, in the same manner as persons usually do;
that in laying him out one happened to draw his hand under
the left arm, and perceived a small tremor in the flesh; that
he was laid out, and was cold and stiff. The time for his
funeral was appointed, and the people collected, but a young
doctor, his particular friend, pleaded with great earnestness
that he might not then be buried, as the tremor under the
arm continued; that his brother Gilbert became impatient
with the young gentleman, and said to him, ‘ What I a man
not dead who is cold and stiff as a stake! ’ The importunate
young friend, however, prevailed. Another day was ap¬
pointed for the burial, and the people separated. During
this interval many means were made use of to discover, if
possible, some symptoms of life, but none appeared except¬
ing the tremor. The doctor never left him for three nights
and three days. The people again met to bury him, but
could not even then obtain the consent of his friend, who
pleaded for one hour more, and when that was gone he
52
THE SPIEITUALIST,
Eeb. 2, 1877,
pleaded for half an hour, and then for a quarter of an hour,
when just at the close of this period on which hung his last
hope, Mr. Tennent opened his eyes. They then pried into
his mouth, which was stiff, so as to get a quill into it, through
which some liquid was conveyed into the stomach, and he by
degrees recovered.
“ This account, as intimated before, Mr. Tennent said he
had received from his friends. I said to him : e Sir, you
seem to be one indeed raised from the dead, and may tell us
what it is to die, and what you were sensible of while in that
state.’ He replied in the following words: ‘ As to dying,
I found my fever increase, and I became weaker and weaker,
until all at once I found myself in heaven, as I thought. I
saw no shape as to the Deity, but glory all unutterable.’
Here he paused as though unable to find words to express his
views, let his bridle fall, and, lifting up his hands, pro¬
ceeded : ‘ I can say as St. Paul did: I heard and saw things
all unutterable. I saw a great multitude before this glory,
apparently in the height of bliss, singing most melodiously.
I was transported with my own situation, viewing all my
troubles ended, and my rest and glory begun, and was about
to join the great and happy multitude, when one came to
me, looked me full in the face, laid his hand upon my
shoulder, and said, f You must go back.’ These words went
through me. Nothing could have shocked me more. I
cried out, ‘ Lord, must I go back ? ’ With this shock I
opened my eyes in this world. When I saw I was in the
world I fainted; then came to, and fainted for several times,
as one probably would naturally have done in so weak a
situation.’
“ Mr. Tennent further informed me that he had so
entirely lost the recollection of his past life, and the benefit
of his former studies, that he could neither understand what
was spoken to him, nor write nor read his own name ; that
he had to begin all anew, and did not recollect that he had
ever read before, until he had again learned his letters, and
was able to pronounce the monosyllables, such asand
tkou; but that as his strength returned, which was very
slowly, his memory also returned. Yet, notwithstanding the
extreme feebleness of his situation, his recollection of what
he saw and heard while in heaven, as he supposed, and the
sense of divine things which he there obtained, continued all
the time in their full strength, so that he was continually in
something like an ecstasy of mind. ‘And,’ said he, ‘for
three years the sense of divine things continued so great,
and everything else appeared so completely vain when com¬
pared to heaven, that could I have had the world for stooping
down for it, I believe I should not have thought of doing it.’
“ The pious and candid reader is left to his own reflec¬
tions on this very extraordinary occurrence. The facts have *
been stated, and they are unquestionable. The writer will
only ask whether it be contrary to revealed truth, or to reason,
to believe that in every age of the world instances like that
which is here recorded have occurred, to furnish living testi¬
mony of the reality of the invisible world, and of the infinite
importance of eternal concerns.’ ”
I have an intimate friend, a candid and reliable man, who
was in the trance state for thirty hours, and who in the most
serious manner has often declared to me that he saw wonder¬
ful things which he shall never reveal, for the reason that
just before his return to consciousness in this life, a voice
solemnly warned him against ever making known what he
had seen and heard. This gentleman unhesitatingly confides
to me the knowledge of his private affairs and sentiments,
but upon this subject he never dwells in conversation, and
generally avoids it altogether.
“ Oh, unto few the power is given
To pass beyond the bounds of time,
And lift the radiant veil of heaven,
To view her mysteries sublime.
Yet Thou, in whose majestic light
The source of knowledge lies concealed,
Prepare us to receive aright
The truth that yet shall be revealed.”
Mr. J. J. Morse has been engaged by some temperance advocates, who
are not Spiritualists, to give a trance oration next Monday evening in
Newcastle, entitled “ A Plea for the Philosophy of Temperance.” Mr.
hklmund Proctor will preside.
ANCIENT AND MODERN.
BY EMILY KISLINGBUBY.
The debate on Dr. Carter Blake’s paper, “Ancient
Thought and Modern Spiritualism,” which was published a
fortnight ago in these pages, was opened on Monday evening
last, at 38, Great Russell-street, and bids fair to extend over
more than one fortnightly Monday evening yet to come.
The “ Ancients ” only have at present had the field, and
even their “ innings,” we were told, is not half over; and
if the “ Moderns ” are equally well represented, as they are
likely to be under the able leadership of Mr. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald, the fight will probably be very close indeed.
There was a little difference of opinion as to where the
line should be drawn between the ancients and the moderns
in the matter of Spiritualism—Mr. Fitz-Gerald proposing to
place it after Aristotle, and Mr. Stainton Moses arguing
that it should stand at Kate Fox. Dr. Blake, however,
showed that the Middle Ages should form a period by them¬
selves, and that his paper, which is the first of a series, had
treated of the ancients par excellence.
No doubt could exist in the minds of those who heard the
remarks of Mr. S. Moses and Mr. Humphreys, that the
various nations of antiquity had made deeper researches
into the phenomena and the mysteries of the human spirit
than we can pretend to have arrived at in these days. The
Hindoos and Egyptians reduced Spiritualism to an art,
remnants of which survive to-day in some of the so-called
juggler’s tricks (but which are a class of Spiritual manifesta¬
tions) of the fakirs and jogis, and in the seership of the true
gipsies. The oracles of the ancient temple-worship, the
writing of the Ten Commandments on the tables of stone,
the Urim and Thummim of the Jewish high-priest, the
directions given for building the temple of Solomon, were
all so many forms of spiritual communication, the condi¬
tions for which appear to have been far better understood
than we now understand the conditions favourable to our
modern forms of manifestation.
The chief advantage of the moderns over the ancients,
which Mr. Stainton Moses partly pointed out, and which we
may hope to hear more fully developed by Mr. Fitz-Gerald
and his school, will probably prove to be superiority of
method. We live in the age of experimental science. We
heap fact upon fact, we analyse, we tabulate; the botanist
tells us of eight hundred varieties of the common bramble,
the zoologist of fifteen hundred species of the clothes moth.
But each new theory of science, put forward in our time by
specialists and men of grooves, is rejected by the next
generation, until the conflict of beliefs has itself become one
of the most marked phenomena of our age. Nevertheless it is
probable that, with our improved methods of working by
applying to our knowledge the tests of practical life, and by
a complete system of comparison, and correlation, unknown
in the past, we shall eventually lay the foundations of a per¬
manent science, in Spiritualism, which can be taught, not only
to an initiated few, but to the world at large. The study of
this science must be graduated, must have its elementary
text books and experiments, its “ milk for babes,” and the
rest in due order. The time is fast approaching when the
chaos of our facts must be reduced to some sort of order, and
discussions such as those which have been instituted by the
National Association of Spiritualists, are one of the first
means to this end. Whether the state of our knowledge and
our capabilities of forming correct theories contrast favour¬
ably or not with those of the ancients, many interesting
facts will be brought to light, and if we can learn thereby to
add their comprehensiveness of classification to our exactness
in observing minutiae of detail, we may look for a growth, as
rapid as it will be solid, of the science of Spiritualism, such
as has never yet existed in any former age of the world’s
history.
As regards a complete theory of Spiritualism, it is a
matter of doubt in many minds whether any science can
attain to its full and just proportions while wanting a theory
which shall bring its facts into form, and without which
the increasing abundance of materials only serves to add
confusion to the mass. The inductive method, it is argued,
does not suffice alone. The mind will run forward, as it
were, to gain a peep at the goal towards which its busy feet
Feb. 2, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 53
are darkly tending. It will view from some monntain-
height the promised land, which is to be the end of its mazy
wanderings.
Were the ancients more apt than we at imaging forth
the forms which are to complete the efforts of the fact-
collector ? Dr. Blake hints that they were. If this be so,
then the study of their theories of spiritual existence, their
systems of world-order, tested both by our facts and theirs,
may help us to form a true philosophy of the relations be¬
tween spirit and matter, between humanity and other more
elementary, as well as advanced, forms of spiritual existence,
and between humanity and God.
SPIRITUALISM IN DALSTON.
The thirteenth half-yearly general meeting of the Dalston Association
of Inquirers into Spiritualism was held at the Association’s Rooms, 74,
Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E., on Thursday evening last week,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen in the chair.
The advertisement convening the meeting was read, and the minutes
of the last half-yearly general meeting were read and confirmed.
The report of the Council and statement of accounts for the half-year
ending 31st December last were read by the honorary secretary. The
report, among other things, set forth:—
“ During the past half-year the following elections have taken place,
viz.:—Mr. Joseph Bamford, as a life member; Miss Emily Thomson,
Messrs. W. R. Menteath, John Dawbarn, and Thomas Dales, as
ordinary members.
“Resignations have been accepted with regret of Messrs. T. A.
Downes, Lucas de Caux, John Tyvie, Charles Lee, Henry Sayer, and
Robert Nelson Dawson, while the decease of Mr. W. E. Bassett, referred
to in the last report of Council, reduces the number of honorary mem¬
bers by one.
“ The classification of the total number of members upon the register
on 31st Dec. last, as compared with the previous half-year, exhibits a
slight decrease, viz.:—31st December, 1876, 9 life, 29 ordinary, 29
honorary, total 67 members; 30th June, 1876, 8 life, 31 ordinary, 30
honorary, total 69 members.
“ Numerous valuable presentations have been received, for which the
best thanks of the Association are due to the following donors, viz.:—
Baron C. Dirckinck-Holmfeld, the t British National Association of
Spiritualists,’ Professors R. B. D. Wells and L. N. Fowler, Mr. J. N.
Tiedeman Martheze, Dr. George Sexton, Miss Theobald, Rev. H. N.
Grimley, M.A., Mr. William White, Mr. Charles Blackburn, Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A., &c., Mrs. S. C. Hall, Mr. Robert H. Collyer, M.D., Mr.
Thomas Shorter, and Mr. T. Wayland-Smith.
“ Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen was re-elected as the representative of
the Association on the Council of the * British National Association of
Spiritualists,’ the meetings of which body he has attended in the
interests of the Association.
“ Arrangements for reciprocity of members privileges, as regards
attendance at ordinary meetings and seances, with other similar metro¬
politan organisations, have received the attention of the Council during
the past half-year, resulting in an interchange with the 4 Marylebone
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism,’ An application was made
also to the ‘ Psychological Society of Great Britain,’ but the Council
of that body declined to entertain any suggestions for reciprocating
such privileges, on the ground of disparity of the terms of subscrip¬
tion, among other reasons.
“ The Council has appointed Mr. Thomas Blyton as a delegate to
attend the 187 7 Conference of Spiritualists on behalf of the Association.
“ Mr. Francis G. Herne attended the ordinary weekly seances held
on Thursday evenings, the 14th and 21st September and 5th October,
on which occasions some powerful manifestations occurred. At the
seance of 5th October Mr. Herne was thoroughly examined by two
members of the Association, Messrs. George Robert Tapp and Arthur
Vaughan, who reported that no drapery or contrivances of any descrip¬
tion were secreted about Mr. Herne’s body. The front room was
made to serve the purposes of a ‘ cabinet,’ for isolating the medium
from the general body of the sitters ; all access to, or egress from,
the front room being cut off, except through the curtains at the open¬
ing of the folding doors. Mr. Herne was securely held on each side
by Messrs. Arthur Vaughan and Thomas Blyton, the other members
present being seated in the back room. Sufficient light penetrated
through the curtains separating the two rooms, as well as through
spaces at top of the two windows, so as not to render the front room
absolutely dark. Under these ‘test conditions’ a form was seen by
Messrs. Vaughan and Blyton to evolve itself apparently from the
back of the medium ; a number of hands were palpably felt manipu¬
lating the two gentlemen holding Mr. Herne, and, at the same time,
removing various articles from the table at which they were sitting
in the middle of the room; some drapery was seen and felt; the fall
of the piano was raised, and both the treble and bass notes played
upon simultaneously; while various characteristic voices were heard
apart and distinct from Mr. Herne, who, to all appearance, was in an
unconscious condition during the occurrence of these manifestations.
Messrs. Vaughan and Blyton state that they were careful to retain
their hold of Mr. Herne from first to last, and they jointly prepared
and attested a careful report of this seance, which was published in
No. 216 of The Spiritualist newspaper of 13th October last, to which
members are referred for full particulars. The Council is of opinion
that the results in question were obtained under such satisfactory 1 test
conditions ’ as to render the report, alluded to above, worthy of being
recorded pursuant to Seance Regulation No. 5,
j “ The ordinary weekly seances have increased in interest, the results
(i having been on the whole of a marked and satisfactory character, due in
I all probability to the more regular attendance of members, but, more
ji particularly, to the fuller developed mediumship of one of the number of
11 regular attendants.
ji “ The attention of the members is urgently invited to the desirability
j of reporting any personal experiences which they may consider worthy
j | of laying before the notice of their fellow members, in order that they
| j| may be fully discussed or recorded in the books of the Association. The
| i Council hopes that papers may be forthcoming during the ensuing- half-
j j |- year, the discussion of which may assist in the efforts to arrive at a
I j j satisfactory solution of some of the more difficult phases of Spiritualism.”
[j After a few remarks on the satisfactory progress of the Association,
ill the report and statement of accounts were, on the motion of Mr. John
jl] Rouse, seconded by Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, unanimously adopted,
i j i It was moved by Mr. George Robert Tapp, seconded by Mr. Edwin
jj| Dottridge, and resolved—“That the officers for the past half-year be
j ! re-elected.”
| j | Mr. Thomas Blyton moved, “ That in future the ordinary general
j | meetings of the Association and election of officers take place annually,
I I on the last Thursday in the month of January of each year, instead of
j i half-yearly as heretofore, and that Rules 3 and 4 be amended in accord-
I i ance herewith.”
I j Mr. Edwin Dottridge seconded the motion.
| j| An amendment was moved by Mr. John Rouse, and seconded by Mr.
) I George Robert Tapp, “That the general meetings be half-yearly as
| I hitherto.” After a warm discussion, the amendment was put to the
| j meeting, when only two voted for it, and on the motion being put it was
| | carried unanimously.
I j The business before the meeting having been completed, an informal
| j | conversation ensued upon the necessity for more carefully testing
| 'j mediumship, in which Messrs. John Rouse, E. W. Wallis, J. Tozeland,
jji Edwin Dottridge, G. R. Tapp, R. P. Tredwen, Thomas Blyton, and
| I others took part, after which the meeting was brought to a close.
THE CASE OF WILLIAM LAWRENCE.
At Judges’ Chambers, on Monday, before Mr. Justice Hawkins,
Mr. Hazeldine, solicitor for Lawrence, the recently convicted East-
j end alleged medium, applied to his lordship upon a summons which
| had been served upon the Treasury for the defendant’s release on bail.
I Mr. Hazeldine read an affidavit setting forth that the defendant was
j convicted upon the two first counts of an indictment charging him with
I attempting to obtain money under false pretences (two other counts for
j conspiracy having been quashed), and that he (Mr. Hazeldine) had
j applied to the Attorney-General upon the certificate of Mr. Ignatius
j Williams to grant his fiat for a writ of error, on the ground that the
defendant’s conviction was bad in certain points of law, that the
Attorney-General had granted his fiat, and that the writ of error had
been issued.
I After some discussion, in the course of which Mr. Hazeldine pointed
out to his lordship the grounds upon which it was sought to set aside
II the conviction,
I His lordship intimated that he did not think the Treasury could
j | oppose an order for the defendant’s release pending the argument of
1 the writ of error, and an order was accordingly made that the
I defendant should enter into his recognisances in the sum of £500, with
jl two sureties, whose names had been approved by the Treasury, for
j £250 each, and that defendant should be released upon such bail,
ji. On Wednesday afternoon, at Westminster Police-court, just before
jl the rising of the Court, a gentleman came from the Treasury with
| William Lawrence, for the purpose of entering into two recognisances in
( | £250 each, and the prisoner in the sum of £500, by order of Mr. Justice
j I Hawkins, to sue out a writ of error in the Queen’s Bench Division of the
I High Court of Justice on the ground of the illegality of the conviction
| and the sentence of three months passed at the last Sessions holden for
I the county of Middlesex. One of the bail had declined to be bound
I any longer, and the learned gentleman thought there was no alternative
I but to send the man back to prison until notice of other bail was given.
I Upon the application of the prisoner, as the habeas corpus was an ex-
I pensive proceeding, his own recognisance was entered into, so as to
j save the expense of another habeas corpus, and he was then taken
j back to the House of Correction until he has obtained the necessary
I sureties.
Mr. George Farmer, late editor of The Pioneer of Progress, has
left London for the West Indies.
Mr. J. J. Morse in Birmingham.—Or Sunday evening last, January
28th, Mr. Morse delivered a trance address in the Templar Hall, Lady-
wood, Birmingham, on, “ What do the Stars teach ?” A large audience
was in attendance, completely filling the hall, and the address was
listened to with the closest attention throughout. Mr. R. Harper con¬
ducted the service. On Wednesday evening Mr. Morse delivered
another public address in the same town; he also gave two “ Chamber
Lectures ” in the houses of local Spiritualists, On Sunday next Mr.
Morse will deliver two trance addresses in the Freemasons’ Old Hall,
Newgate-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne, afternoon at 3, evening at 7 ; and
on Monday he will deliver an address in the Temperance Hall, Nelson-
street. He will be in London, and take part in the opening soiree and
subsequent meetings of the forthcoming Conference of the British
National Association of Spiritualists, on Feb. 7th, 8th, and 9th. His
other engagements are—Glasgow, Feb. 11th; Liverpool, Feb. 18th;
Cardiff, Feb. 25th; Nottingham, March 11th; Manchester, March 25th.
54
THE SPIRITITALIST.
Eeb. 2, ]877.
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF |
SCIENCE.
A rumour has reached ns—and although it is but a rumour j
it comes in a sufficiently authenticated way to induce us to
publish it—that the Council of the British Association for j
the Advancement of Science has passed a resolution which j
will impede the free introduction and discussion of the subject
of Spiritualism at its future meetings. This point is worth |
the attention of those members of the British Association j
who possess any knowledge of psychology, and is mentioned I
here for historical purposes, that those societies which
commit themselves to opposing the facts of nature may j
have the full benefit of any advantage their reputations can
gain thereby. 1
|j
SPIRITUALISM AND MEN OF SCIENCE. 'i
How is it that so many professing men of science act con¬
trary to the first principles of their own creed by crying
down unpopular facts? It is that so many of them are
devoid of genius and spirit? but are good at plodding in
grooves ; they are like pedagogues, good workers in a few
directions, but devoid in many instances of all courage, and j
unable to deal with questions outside their narrow ex- j
perience. A man may be able to map new lines in the
spectrum, and in the course of jog-trot researches to stumble j
upon great discoveries, yet be an arrant coward, and a poor j
moral spectacle to spiritual ken. There was a time when j
men went forth to battle and to die for the sake of that j
which they believed to be true, when women hated the craven j
and rewarded the brave, and when both preferred to sleep I
beneath their altar tombs, to retaining aii ignoble life pre- j
served by bending to that which was false. In this com- j
mercial age that spirit of chivalry seems to have died out, |
and it may be that when a nation has lost its nobility of j
character, when it has succumbed to the meaner vices, and j
degraded itself in trespasses and sins, a purifying process j
must set in. In more barbarous times the purifying element j
was war, and in these later days it may be that that warfare j
has to be carried on upon the moral and spiritual rather than j
the material plane. j
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS. j
WINTER MEETINGS. 1
Last Monday night, one of the ordinary fortnightly meetings of the I
members and friends of the British National Association of Spiritualists i |
was held at 38, Great Russell-street, London, under the presidency of ]
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S.TeLE. The business of the meeting !)
was the discussion of the paper on “ Ancient Thought and Modern !(
Spiritualism,” by Dr. Carter Blake, Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy |(
at Westminster Hospital. i!
The Chairman remarked that Socrates believed in the Unknown i
God, he was susceptible to spirit influence, in short he was both a \\
clairaudient medium and a Spiritualist; moreover, he was in the !
happy and exceptional position of having a good and pure spirit to !
advise him in his actions. He (the Chairman) did not think that the j(
views of Democritus about atoms, as quoted by Dr. Carter Blake, |
could be supported in our day. He was not convinced of the superior j(
wisdom of the ancients ; there was an absence of experiment among |(
them, and their ideas outside mathematics were consequently very |
fallacious; for instance, Aristotle had stated that the mole has no |
eyes, but if they would only brush away the hair from certain portions j
of the head of a mole they would see the bright little beads of eyes, i
The atomic theory of Lucippus he thought to be entirely a product of |
the imagination, and not founded upon experimental facts like that of j
Dalton.
The Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., said that one difference between j
the ancients and moderns was observable in the circumstance that the |
modern deals with the scientific verification of facts, and does not j
necessarily feel himself called upon to bring forward any theory. He |
was acquainted with a high scientific authority who had been studying !
the facts of Spiritualism, and when he asked him, “What is your j!
theory ? ” the reply was, “ I have not got any; I merely tabulate and j{
record facts.” It was good that such men should bring their attention i j
and their scientific acumen to bear upon this business of exoteric ij
Spiritualism, and to stamp the facts with the “ hall mark ” of science, jj
He was surprised at the remark of the Chairman that the ancients had j (
set their faces entirely against experiment, for with regard to the jj
phenomena of Spiritualism they certainly had not done so, for they, i
had made researches into phenomena connected with the human spirit ! j
in a way that had not been done in modern times, as in the example i j
of lamblicus. Of course, if similar research were undertaken now j j
with all the appliances of modern science, and with superior critical j j
acumen, more work might be done. Was there any necessary |
antagonism between ancient and modern Spiritualism ? Might not the ii
one learn from the other ? He should like to point out what had not
j been done by modern investigators. They had noo arrived at any
j test by which they could decide upon the exact nature of the
j phenomena which take place in their presence, and this was a serious
j matter; for instance, Miss Kislingbury had shown, in a recent paper,
j that after a medium was put in a cabinet, and sealed, and tied, and
)\ sewed, so that it was physically impossible that he could be found any-
[j where else, he, nevertheless, was sometimes found where he‘had no
j business ; thus the bonds were worse than useless, because they served
H to mislead the minds of observers. Such investigators were trying to
j test spirit,'upon the plane of matter, which was an impossibility. Then,
j again, they could not show how any phenomenon was produced—not
b even the ordinary rap. Again, the phenomena could not be reproduced
[j with certainty, even when the same conditions had apparently been
(j supplied. He thought that the ancients had succeeded much better in
ij obtaining manifestations with, precision. They were also careful in
1 j isolating their mediums, a point which modern Spiritualists had not
yet reached. . They knew that if they sent forth their mediums into the
world, elements of uncertainty were introduced; they knew that a
medium was a person who should not be exposed to the rude blasts of
the world, but who should be trained and prepared ; they also knew that
in him the flesh should not be allowed to dominate the spirit. Moderns
had not yet answered the crucial question, “ What is the communi¬
cating intelligence ? ” The members of circles sat down under the
strongest of prepossessions—prepossessions as strong as any of those in
the head of Dr. Carpenter. Were there other intelligences in this
world than those of departed humanity? If so, what were they?
And did those intelligences communicate ? If there were none but
the spiirits of the departed, might not some of these be men who had
carried their tricksy habits into the next world, and were playing the
fool with observers ? In reply to one portion of Dr. Carter Blake’s
paper, he did not see why a man must be either an Epicurean or a
Socratean, for he should like to have one leg in each camp. He thought
that a medium had something about him which another intelligence
used as a means of communication, and he believed in this external
control as an absolute fact.
Mr. H. T. Humphreys, barrister-at-law, thought that modern
science, in tabulating facts, lost much ground, for although there was
a great deal of mischief in premature theories, there was also a great
deal of good. For instance, observations of the planets were of little
use until a theory was started to thread them together. Truly the
first theory might not have been sound, but the history of science was
a continual abandonment of theory after theory. All history testified
that there were two classes of intelligent beings besides men in the
flesh, namely, departed spirits, and the spirits of those who had never
been in a human body. He thought that as the theory that these
manifestations were produced by departed human beings was so old
and so well supported by present facts, that it was more likely to last
than any other, and although the intelligence connected with them
appeared in some cases not to be humanj he did not know of any mes¬
sages so low and impish, or any so high and intelligent, that they might
not have originated with beings possessing intelligence like that of
certain living men who could be pointed out. Socrates suffered because
his teachings tended to lessen the emoluments of the priests of the
temple, and although in certain conditions of society it was safe to
attack religion, it was not at all safe to attack priestcraft, and that was
why Spiritualism was being persecuted. He did not know that Spirit¬
ualism was doing the Church any special damage, for it was doing itself
plenty of damage, as recent events showed. He had heard that one of
the bishops met the Editor of The Times at the Athenaniin Club, and
urged him to stop the discussion going on some years ago in the columns
of that journal about Spiritualism, on the ground that a continuation of
the discussion would do damage to the Church of England.
Mr. Thomas Shorter (for many years editor of the Spiritual Maga¬
zine') remarked that what had been said by previous speakers proved
that Spiritualism was no new-fangled superstition, and that the
antiquity of the facts ought to teach a lesson to those justices who
directed juries to find people guilty, because their evidence tended to
prove the reality of the supernatural. One of his earliest problems
was, “ Do all these things come from departed human beings ?” Some
of the things appeared to be sub-human; still he thought it was
possible to hold as a tenable theory that all these things originated
with the spirits of the departed. No messages came which could not
be ascribed to human agency, sometimes perhaps of a very low order,
originating with the spirits of such savages as were modelled at the
Crystal Palace. He did not think that the Church was so much
attacked as the Sophists by Socrates; the Sophists, by specious
arguments, and by cunning devices founded upon no deep love of
truth, blinded men, and led them astray as regarded the things of the
spirit.
Mrs. Hallock said that at the last meeting she had expressed the
opinion that it was possible to be both a Socratean and an Epicurean,
but Dr. Blake then replied that it was “ impossible ; ” yet two very
learned men had in their speeches expressed her own views, so she
rose to advocate those ideas once more. Spiritualists were making
history. At the present time there were mediums in America who
isolated themselves, and lived almost alone, and who were very par¬
ticular about their food and their surroundings; they were mostly
descendants of the Puritans, and were getting curious spiritual
communications, which as yet had not been given to the world.
There were also a few women in London who were living what was
called “ the inner . life ; ’ ’ outwardly they led pure and sweet lives,
free from the material nature, and she hoped that some of the communi¬
cations which they were getting might hereafter become known.
Mr. W. H. Harrison said that he had nothing to say upon the subject
of the paper but wished to question the remark of Mr. Stainton-Moses tha t
nothing was known about the means whereby the raps were produced.
' Wherever there was shade in the neighbourhood of a physical medium,
2, i;87£
TtiE SPIRITtTAllST.
55
say under a table, spirit-hands were commonly more or less ma¬
terialised, and would sometimes write; these hands also—when the
power was strong—would momentarily thrust themselves into sight. It
was quite certain that some of the answers to questions by raps were
produced by these hands rapping with their knuckles upon the table,
and when they were less completely materialised it was quite possible
that they" might yet approximate so nearly to earthly conditions as to be
able to produce a sound ; he therefore was not at all sure that the raps
were not produced in the majority of cases by partially-formed spirit
hands. The Spirits possibly might exhaust such vestiges of materiality
as they collected over their hands in the production of the rap ; in short
the rap might be produced by the breaking up of imperfectly formed
hands. Mr. Yarley, Mr. Blackburn, and himself had on various occa¬
sions connected apparatus of excessive delicacy with the tables from
which raps proceeded, and had discovered that electricity and mag¬
netism had no share whatever in their production.
Mr. Desmond Fitz-G-erald remarked that electricity and magnetism
had nothing to do with the production of the physical manifestations.
Dr. Carter Blake disagreed with Mr. Fitz-G-erald on the question that
the ancients used few experiments. True that Aristotle had said the
mole had no eyes. The mole of southern Europe had smaller eyes than
those of northern Europe, and the form Talpa cceca of Savi, might not
have been unknown to Aristotle. We ought not to translate Greek
words by mere English equivalents, as Professor Rolleston had well
pointed out that the cat of the ancients was often our marten cat. He
adhered to his own definition of the distinctions between Epicureanism
and Socratism, and read out long passages from the supplement to the
Summa of S. Thomas Aquinas, cap. 69, relative to the nature of Limbo
after death; and the place in space of the daemons. He promised in
the present series of papers to come down soon to the time of Lucian of
Samosata. The terms “ ancient ” and “ modern ’’ were purely relative;
and it was impossible to fix any limits.
“ Ask -where’s the north; at York, ’tis on the Tweed :
In Caithness, at the Arcades; and there
At Greenland, Zembla, or the Lord knows where.”
A NEW PROSECUTION OF MESSRS. SLADE AND
SIMMONS.
HR. FLOWERS DEMURS TO THE ATTACK.
La.st Tuesday Messrs. Lankester and Donkin took out a fresh sum¬
mons at Bow-street Police Station against Messrs. Slade and Simmons
for conspiring to defraud. The old charge of the same nature fell
through because they failed to prove any partnership between the
defendants, and immediately the failure was complete, Mr. Simmons,
having nothing to conceal, voluntarily, and without being subpoenaed,
stepped into the witness-box and gave the information on oath that he
was a partner. It was known before he did so that this would render him
liable to a fresh trial, so such an action was one which will be appre¬
ciated at its true value by those who possess the instincts of gentlemen.
Messrs. Lankester and Donkin have clutched at the opportunity, and
are now using his volunteered information in the attempt to get him
locked up in prison.
Their new attack upon Dr. Slade is not made in the first flush of
antipathy to facfs hard to believe by the uninformed because of their
apparent impossibility, but when the prosecutors know that members of
the learned societies, and many people of good critical power have, after
careful investigation, pronounced the phenomena they witnessed to have
been genuine. Hence the historical position in relation to a new truth
which the prosecutors hold is now one taken in cold blood, after due
time for deliberation, therefore from it they have no possible means of
escape.
The following particulars relating to the taking out of the summons
are from the Times of last Wednesday:—
< At Bow-street, Mr. George Lewis, jun., addressing Mr. Flowers, said
he wished to apply for fresh summonses against Dr. Slade, and his
assistant, Mr. Simmons, for conspiracy to cheat and defraud Professor
Lankester and Dr. Donkin (who were in attendance), by subtle craft,
etc., under the Vagrancy Act. Mr. Lewis said that since the conviction
of Dr. Slade by Mr. Flowers the case had entirely passed out of the
hands of Professor Lankester and Dr. Donkin. The decision of a
magistrate was always supported by the Treasury solicitors after it had
been arrived at. Mr. Flowers was doubtless aware that the case of
appeal had fallen through in consequence of the omission of the words
“ by palmistry or otherwise” in the charge against Mr. Slade in the
upper Court. The case failed without the facts being heard or the law
upon the matter decided. Upon the hearing of the former summons it
was decided that the charge of conspiracy should be abandoned for
want of evidence, and it was only when Simmons himself got into the
box for the defence that it was shown he was no servant in the business,
but a partner, and received half the takings. There was now evidence
of a conspiracy, and Mr. Lewis should apply for a summons in that
charge against Dr. Slade and Mr. Simmons, as well as a summons
under the Vagrant Act against Dr. Slade. Mr. Lewis added that
Professor Lankester had no vindictive feeling in the matter whatever ;
he merely prosecuted these men on scientific grounds. He would will¬
ingly have bowed to a decision if one had been given. As it was, nothing
had been decided in the matter, and Dr. Slade was dismissed on a pure
legal technicality. Mr. Flowers suggested that Mr. Lewis should wait
until the decision was given in the case against another Spiritualist,
|| which was now pending. Mr. Lewis said the case was very different
from the one against Slade and Simmons. There was no conspiracy.
| Mr. Flowers then granted the summonses.
i The Daily News gives a more complete report than the Times, and
states that the solicitor to the Treasury was present when Mr. Flowers
gave his decision in the vagrancy case against Dr. Slade. The Daily
| News also gives the following details of the remarks made by Mr.
Flowers last Tuesday to the applicants for the new summonses :—
| Mr. Flowers said he supposed Mr. Lewis had fully considered whether
| or not the trouble of the investigation that had already taken place was
I not known to the public, and whether or not the benefit the public
| might derive had not been gained by what had happened on the previous
I' occasion. Mr. Lewis had said that he had further evidence as to con-
ft spiracy, and undoubtedly he (Mr. Flowers), would have sent the case
| for trial if he had had that evidence before him in the^first instance.
|] Mr. Lewis said Professor Lankester felt that if there had been any
decision on the merits and facts of the case he would have bowed to it,
i whether it had been for or against him, but there had been no such
! decision, and the case had practically failed from the omission of certain
words in the conviction. Professor Lankester thought, therefore, that
it was his duty to bring the matter to trial.
J! Mr. Flowers said he understood that there was a man named
)•: Lawrence, from the East-end of London, against whom a verdict had
11 been obtained, and the case was going up to the court above, on a writ
)] of error. Would not the question then be decided by a court of com-
> i petent j urisdiction ?
(! Mr. Lewis said he had heard of that case, but there was no charge of
{\ conspiracy, and he believed the means employed to create the imposture
jl were different to those employed in this instance. He did not know
(| what the facts were, but he could state that.
{I Mr. Flowers said he could not refuse the application for fresh sum-
;j mouses, there being further evidence; but he sincerely trusted the case
(j would be taken before another magistrate, as he had had enough of it.
) i Perhaps Sir James Ingham would take it.
)'i Mr. Lewis said that, however much the complainant might regret
i Mr. Flowers not taking the case, still, if Sir James Ingham would con-
I sent to hear it, there could be no doubt that substantial justice would
j be done.
i Mr. Flowers—You can take the summonses.
DR. SLADE ON THE CONTINENT.
j Dr. Slade, who was very ill, left his apartments in London before it
< i was known that fresh summonses had been taken out against him, and
\l Mr. Munton, his solicitor, informs us that he is now on the Continent J
)| We should imagine that he would return if scientific questions could be
|[ decided without risk of the police court and the prison, or if legal
I methods did not prevent the hearing of Dr. Slade’s thirty or forty
) j witnesses of the highest respectability and character, or if the pheno-
i mena of nature were not assumed by many to cease with the limit of
(i knowledge of. them, of those administering justice. His response to
) | the first summons was voluntary; he might then have departed from
(| a country in which he had no ties. Even now he is the kind of man
| to be likely enough to return.
ILLNESS OF DR. SLADE.
|! Dr. St. a dr had been ill for a week before his appearance at the
); Westminster Sessions last Monday; for three days he had been
(j delirious, and on the Sunday was unable to stand. A powerful medium
being a mesmeric sensitive, and much of his time in the condition of
)\ those persons on a mesmerist’s platform, who are completely under the
{\ control of abnormal influences, there is special cruelty in persecuting
jl such frail individuals, although, in the face of the popular ignorance
I of psychology, this feature of Dr. Slade’s case has not been generally
presented to the public. Mr. Simmons prognosticated that, however
| ill he might be, he would appear at Westminster, and “ stand up like a
deacon”—which he did—though English deacons are not notorious
| for special “standing up” proclivities. In the course of his delirium
j his visions were chiefly symbolical of utter helplessness, his inmost
| ideas taking apparently external form—he spoke, for instance, of being
exposed on dreary wastes to the pitiless rain, and wondered that he
| had no coat, hat, or umbrella. Many ladies and gentlemen called upon
| him, and he was treated with the greatest kindness. Two medical
men were called in ; they were very attentive, but appeared, according
to Mr. Simmons, to be “studying the case.” Sometimes, while he
I was delirious, raps were plentiful on any sounding surface near him,
and the replies to questions given by these raps were clear and
| coherent.
The Annual Conference of Spiritualists begins next Thursday, at
3.30 p.m., at 38, Great Russell-etreet, London. There will be a con-
j versazione on the preceding evening.
| Edward Bullock.—The following paragraph from The Times of last
/j Wednesday records the doings of a youth who has never beenrecog-
(i nised as a genuine medium by this journal:—“At Clerkenwell, Mr. E.
); Bullock, a printer, of Church-street, Islington, applied to Mr. Barstow
I for his assistance. In consequence of threats held out by a Spiritualist
living in Londbn-road, Clapton, he went in fear of his life. He had
investigated the phenomena of Spiritualism, and, having found that it
was mere jugglery, had determined to expose the deception; this
brought upon him the hatred of the Spiritualists, one of whom, meeting
him on Sunday night, said he did not mind spending a pound or two to
I get some grievous bodily harm inflicted upon him. He therefore
wished for protection. - Mr. Barstow said he had never heard a more
i nonsensical complaint. He refused the application.”
56
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 2, 1877.
iPomg. ||
POETICAL INSPIRATION. ijl
In Scribner’s Illustrated for December, Bayard Taylor is credited with the 11;
following:— I j j
Par on the hot Apaohe plain 1CJ
I sinched the girth and I buckled the rein. I jl
The-glorious girl behind me sang, ! jj
But I sprang to the saddle without a pang, I < i
And gave the spur to my wild mustang ; j (i
And a coil of the loose riata’s fold jo j
Over his flanks like ^ serpent rolled, | ' j/i
As his hoofs went forward, and forward, and on, ■ ■ jij
Till the plain and the hills and the girl were gone. I (i
The forests of cactus stabbed and stung,
The sun beat down on my skinless tongue, j )l
The dust was thick in my simmering mouth, j (I
And a whirlwind of flame came out of the South, I (j
From the dry bananas, whose fiery hair I j j
Singed the monkeys and parroquets there. i) i
I crashed through the flame, I dash’d o’er the sand, j (j
Bearing my songs in my red right hand, jy!
Bearing the songs of the Western land, j (j
Tender and glowing, and fierce and grand. j j I
Take them and read them, and yield me the crown j / j
Which the old Sierras on me cast down j y j
From peaks untrodden, of gorgeous glare, i! |
Cast down upon me and bade me wear! j j I
And whoso denies it, he shall be I) i
Struck, and despised, and spit on by me, 1(1
As a loathsome snake, as a venomous thing,
Fit but to swelter and crawl and sting, I j I
And build his cell in the rotten, rank j) i
Recess of a noisome toad-stool bank, .jy j
While I, like a hawk in the splendid sky,
Scream revenge as I wheel on high, j j j
And the sound of my screaming shall never die! j ) j
A VISION OF DEATH. j j
Within my loving arms she lies, i jl
She will not heed one word I say. I) I
Last night Death came in Angel guise, 1(1
And closed for ever her blue eyes, j (j
And kissed her life away. i j I
I heard him knocking at the door, j (i
I would not heed, but only drew . j j j
My darling closer than before, I)!
And trembling kissed her o’er and o’er, j (j
Too well the end I knew. - I y j
She lay so quiet oh my breast, » |(|
I held her close, I held her warm ; j (I
Her tiny hands in mine I pressed, ! j j
My soul was filled with wild unrest, j) j
I feared that shadowy form. I (j
She lay my sheltering arms between, j j j
Her laugh rang merry as of old, ! (j
She was as gay as summer’s queen, jyl
She did not know what I had seen I j j
Far out upon the wold. j j j
And then the casement shutters shook, ! j i
A sudden chillness filled the air, j j i
I shuddered, and I could not brook in
Into my dear love’s face to look, j j
Death cast his shadow there. I (j
As so beside the dying fire ~ ! (I
We watched the dying of the year j Si
Until from yonder village spire, j jj
In merry clamour rising higher, j (!
The bells rang sharp and clear. i U
I felt the strange dim presence grow, i (!
And wrap my darling in the mist; v j (j
I felt her breathing come and go j j I
In ebbing currents weak and slow, j j j
Between the lips I kissed. j (j
I heard her softly speak my name, l )j
In tender accents, sweet and faint; j (j
And round about her head there came I (j
A rosy-tinted ring of flame, I jj
The aureole of a saint. j )l
She lay so still, she lay so white— j jj
The last sad pang too surely o’er; i j l
And just between the shifting light, j/ j
When morning follows fast on night, I (I
Death passed across the moor. j j j
Ah, me ! the poor Old Year is dead, Hi
And my dear love with him has died ; i} j
And, with a monarch’s haughty tread, i jj
A cruel New Year comes instead, j)i
In regal state and pride. j (j
Ah ! soon again the flowers shall blow, j j i
And soft winds sweep these dreary plains, i
And earth be filled with summer’s glow ; ' j (i
But in my heart, henceforth, I know, i j I
Eternal winter reigns. Cakoline Borke. i ji
The Society Pesaresa, in Italy, ia circulating a small work on
spiritual studies.
arumsponlrence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to thoseof this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned; copies
should he kept hy the writers."]
MR. ANDREW LEIGHTON’S ADVOCACY OF SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—The late Mr. Leighton was a firm believer in Spiritualism, and
was the first in Liverpool who stood upon a public platform to advocate
its truth. In the year 1862, Mr. Leighton introduced the two “ Daven¬
port Brothers ” to a large audience in St. George’s Hall, and on the
second night their cabinet was smashed because of a dispute about the
tying of a rope. Mr. Leighton that night stood alone upon the plat¬
form, and made a thorough defence of the Davenports and the cause of
Spiritualism. Of course, the next day the public papers inveighed
against all such pretensions, and censured Mr. Leighton in no courteous
terms; in fact, they poured abuse unlimited upon him, although he was
held in the greatest respect in this town.
He was an advocate of phrenology, psychology, and all subjects con¬
nected with man’s higher being. Although of late years he has not
taken any public part in the operations of the Liverpool Psychological
Society, yet he freely gave pecuniary support when necessary, and he
promised, at some future time to again publicly advocate the claims of
Spiritualism. John Chapman.
Liverpool,  
IS IT “ PSYCHIC FORCE ” OR “ SPIRIT POWER ? ”
Sir,—A lady, writing to a doctor in large practice in a London
suburb, and known also as a literary man (an M.A.), says:—
“I know you will smile when I tell you I want to know if it is
possible to do table rapping without the aid of spirits ? Some friends of
mine, who are not Spiritualists, have been getting wonderful answers
out of a table, and they say, and I know they believe, that it is entirely
electricity, or psychic force! Now, I cannot see how electricity could
give answers on subjects unknown to any of the persons present, but I
should like very much to think it. So, if it is possible, do you think
you could sometime explain it ? If it be spirits, I had much rather
know nothing about it 1 ”
The doctor replied as follows:—
“I think you are a very rash young lady, to come to me for an
opinion about table turning and spirit rapping, when you know what
a dreadful monster I am in regard to all those matters. Pause, mis¬
guided creature! you are on the brink of a precipice when you ask for
such direction as I can give you. Do you know how far gone I am ?
I am a subscriber to Dr. Slade’s defence fund, and believe him to be a
genuine, sincere man, utterly incapable of fraud; I am also a subscriber
to Dr. Monck’s fund; I am a member of the British National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists. I am fully persuaded that the Davenport Brothers
were neither conjurers nor impostors, but genuine mediums for super¬
natural powers from disembodied spirits. I am so far committed, that
I have attended some dozen seances, at various times, and am under the
strong impression that I have had a long conversation with a Voice, for
which I could not find a corresponding body. What can you expect
from such an infatuated, wrong-headed pervert? But, having thus
exposed my own disqualifications, I will do my best—not exactly to
answer your questions, so much as to put you in the way of answering
them for yourself.
“ You remember Paley’s argument from a watch—If a man were to
stumble on one in a desert, he would be obliged to conclude that intelli¬
gence akin to his own had produced it. No one could persuade him that
such a result had come about through the operation of blind mechanical
force.
“ Does not this point to an anterior law, that our own mental and
spiritual endowments are the only keys we have for interpreting the
facts of life and the phenomena of nature ? If we contradict the
teachings of our own rational nature, and allow ourselves to be con¬
ducted through any avenue of false logic, or sophistry, to the conclu¬
sion that the lower forces of nature are capable of producing results
that are identical with the loftiest (or even the lowliest) operations of
mind, then our reasoning is atheistic, and we, or our descendants, will
become atheists in time. This is the disease of modem science—it
tries to bring all phenomena, even the most peculiarly human and
spiritual, under material laws, and to account for the universe, without
the help of mind.
“ Now do you not see that when you say, ‘ I should like very much to
think ’ that the results of intelligence can be attributed to electricity, or
some nondescript power, which is nicknamed ‘ Psychic force,’ you
are trying to mineralise nature, and shut out all the approaches by
which God enters it ?
“ If electricity can think, then the Divine spark which we fondly hope
makes us kindred with God Himself, and assures us of immortality, is
no more and no less divine than those sparks which you can get out of
a cat’s back if you stroke it in the dark? That is electricity. Can you
conceive of its ever doing the work of mind, even so much as to answer
a leading question by ‘ Yes ’ or ‘ No,’ whether the answer is right or
wrong.
•‘Is Mind such an ambiguous thing that one of the forces of nature
can simulate it ? Under what mask, for instance, could heat or gravi¬
tation disguise itself that you should think it was no longer heat or
gravitation, but Soul ?
“ This, I think, answers your questions. But it also raises the whole
question of Spiritualism out of the mere phenomena into the moral
region. We may approach the lower forces of Nature without any very
careful consideration whether we are dealing with good or evil—they
are non-moral. But in no case can we come into contact with mind
—whether located in a body or not—without opening up spiritual rela¬
tions between ourselves and the mind we approach.
“ You cannot buy a ha’porth of pins without approaching the shop-
Peb. 2, 1871.
t HE SPIRITUALIST.
*7
man’s soul, and without more or less exposure of your own, and it is j|{
wrong for any one to establish such a rapport between two spirits unless m
he knows that good, and not evil, will come out of it, for both—not one : (|
only—of the spiritual natures thus brought into coniunction.
“ If, therefore, Spiritualism brings us into contact with minds which jlj
were before distant from us, we must see to it that the contact is at least j \ ]
an innocent one, and that its tendency is to good, both for ourselves and | >1
for the parties newly introduced. This is a matter for individual con- j) \
cernment. You have, within certain limits, a perfect right to select ||j
your associates, and to say whom you will speak to and whom you will | > i
cut. But why you should cut a fellow merely because he has no body j (j
I cannot for the life of me conceive, any more than why you should cut j (|
any one because he does not grow a moustache, or hasn’t enough body, |)|
say twenty stone. It is, to say the least,.rather uncivil. i j j
“My belief is that spirits disembodied may need help from men as
much—or even more—than we need help from them, and that it is i||
unwise to ignore their approach and make no attempt to ascertain the j (|
meaning and purpose of it. Depend upon it, spirit intercourse would j j
not be possible if it were only evil, for it must.be God’s appointment j
and permission, and there is a root of good in everything that God has j j
put into Nature.” - ||i
Thinking these words may help some of your readers to see the m
distinction between “Psychic force” and “Spiritual power.” I send jij
this for insertion in The Spiritualist. ' F. J. Theobald. j(j
Jan. 27th, 1877.  
AHE APPARITIONS MATERIALISED FORMS ? j l^
Sir,—Will you permit me to make a reply to the letter of “ Inquirer,” j (|
which appears in The Spiritualist of the 12th inst. ? The same question !Vj
has often been suggested to my mind which appears to have been sug- j | i
gested to • his. Of course we can reason only from facts attested by j C;j;
reliable witnesses or observed by ourselves. There is one fact which | (j
appears to me to indicate that some apparitions, at least, are not j j!
materialised forms. In many recorded cases of apparitions the spirit j (j
appears to have been seen by only one individual of a company of m
several, who ought all to have seen it had it been a materialised form. \)\
I should think that the generality of apparitions are not materialised | |
forms. I see no reason, however, to suppose that some apparitions I j
may not take place by means of a materialisation; but in a case of in
that kind I think the spirit would appear just about the time of death, i |
and the energy—as your correspondent calls it—would be some subtle j j i
fluid of the body which the spirit would be able to use at the time of m
material dissolution. ^
In replying to “Inquirer’s” other question, I doubt I shall have to ijj
say some things in disparagement of modern Spiritualism, or, at least,
of some developments of modern Spiritualism. He puts the question— j (j
“Why is it that identification is so general in the case of apparitions, |||
and so rare in the case of materialised forms?” Now the history of In
apparitions proves that in the generality of cases the spirits which !(|
have appeared have been unsought and unexpected by the spectators, I j i
and have appeared voluntarily and of their own accord for some mani- I) j
festly useful purpose. With respect to spirits in materialised forms at Ij!
seances, they are mostly sought after, and that by persons under the j) i
influence of some abnormal mental condition. These persons wish, jjj
perhaps, to know more concerning the state of the departed than is j (
good for them to know: hence they are> permitted, in the course of j j j
Providence, to be visited by spirits who equivocate and contradict each I (j
other, and who cannot be well identified, such visitations being per- j(j
mitted simply because the persons in question persist in seeking to Jj j
interrogate the dead, and because it is best for persons here on earth ’ (i
not to have that knowledge with respect to the state of the dead which j (i
they wish to have. “ This eternal blazon must not be, to ears of flesh |) |
and blood.” The inference then, is plain, namely, that in cases of jji
apparitions identification is very general, because uses are subserved, I j I
while in cases of materialised forms at seances, identification is rare i) j
and doubtful, because uses are not subserved. I would apply this iji
inference even to the assertion of the modern Spiritualist, that the l(i
phenomena of seances are necessary and useful in proving the doctrine j /1
of immortality. I maintain that modern Spiritualism, as a system and i j j
a propagandism for establishing the doctrine of immortality, is not at |ji
all a desideratum, even in this materialistic age. I am persuaded from j)j
my own experience and from the attestations of other persons con- j(i
cerning their experience that when any person, be he what he may, is \[\
in a fit state to have communications from the spiritual world, and I) I
when any useful purpose would be served by his having such communi- |(j
cations, they will come to him unsought, and without the aid of any of i j j
the appliances of modern Spiritualism. The only orderly method of if]
attaining to a rational idea of immortality is to receive it first into the j( I
memory from tradition or revelation, and then to make it part and | j i
parcel of the intellectual nature by comparing it with the analogies of j) j
this present world ; and if ever a time should occur in the history of i(j
any mind when an ocular proof is necessary, that proof will be given i j j
iu the course of Providence, without the aid of the appliances of i)|
modern Spiritualism. Thomas Pattison. i(j
January 15th, 1877.   i) I
EMIGRATION TO AMERICA. |(|
Sir,—As you published a letter from me recently about Dr. Slade, ]) j
I send you a few words on another subject, which may be of use to i(j
any English Spiritualists who intend to emigrate to America. \)\
Few persons of the untravelled suspect how much misery, desolation, |(
aud death are caused by thoughtlessness or ignorance of those who jy
emigrate to new countries from the old settled lands of Europe ; and, j 11
as speculators are combining in companies to bring emigrants to j(l
certain localities, a few words on this may do great good. A few m
words, in a few published letters, have deterred thousands from going m
to the extreme northern limits of Iowa, Dakotah, and Montana, without j (I
bting prepared for the terrible winter storms there, where the mercury ! 1
falls to sixty degrees below zero. Perhaps a few words may prevent
some of our English-speaking folk from going to any part of the United
States, outside of the Eocky Mountain and Pacific Coast region, below
38 degrees of latitude north.
Healthy points may be found in mountains south of that, and very
unhealthy ones in the lowlands, batterns, anywhere north of it. But
while the vast, newly-settled regions of the upland prairies of Iowa,
Missouri, Nebraska, Kansas, Colorado, Idaho, New Mexico (lying
between latitudes 38 deg. and 41 deg.) are open—regions remarkable
for healthfulness and adaptability to agricultural and stock-raising
pursuits—there can be no excuse for preferring any other iu
America. English, Scotch, and Irish emigrants cannot have health in
the lower Mississippi valley. The “swamp fevers,” aided by the
wretched doctors, with their calomel and quinine, which they use to
brutal excess on their victims, are fatal. I am told by Dr. Gant,
Mayor of Arkadelphia, Arkansas, “That over one hundred grains of
quinine is often given by reckless, ignorant practitioners at one dose,
to break swamp fever ”—his own words.
The slightest carelessness by the emigrant in selecting his place for a
home may cause sickness and death in his family in a few weeks. I
offer no advice; let him use the reason God gave him with great
caution, and take advice of intelligent neighbours. Almost anywhere
on the high prairies he is safe. Bad as whiskey is, bad water slays
more people. Eain water, in cisterns kept carefully clean, is safest,
although it has not sufficient bone-producing material, perhaps. There
are thousands of emigrants from northern Europe pouring into the low,
malarious regions of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Arkansas who will all
die off in a few years; and it is a sin to allow them to be led into the
extreme climates without protest, while so many hundreds of thousands
of square miles of the healthiest lands in the world are unsettled, let
speculators and their agents talk as they may. Clarke Irvine.
Oregon, Missouri, U.S.
HELP FOR MRS. LAWRENCE.
Sir, —In response to my letter, which you kindly inserted last week,
on behalf of Mrs. Lawrence, I have received the following sums:—
A Sympathiser, £5; Dr. Kennedy (France), £3 19s.; Mr. Peterson,
10s.; Miss Ottley, 10s.; a Friend, 10s.; Captain James, 5s.; Mr. D.
Fitz-Gerald,5s.; Mrs. Nichols, 2s. 6d.: total, £11 Is. 6d. Mr. Oxley, of
Manchester, has promised 2s. 6d. weekly.
I have seen Mrs. Lawrence, and finding that she has no other means
of support except what she earns by her needle, I have arranged to pay
her 10s. per week so long as the money lasts. Her machine has been
mended, through the kindness of some friends, so she is now ready to
receive work. Emily Kislingbury.
38, Great Russell-street, London.
SPIRITUALISM IN CHICAGO.
Sir,—For the purpose of informing my friends in general of my
whereabouts, and to acquaint those interested with the true spiritual
status of this city, I write the following few lines which I hope you will
publish. I am sojourning for a few days in Chicago, the enterprising
metropolis of the West. I find Spiritualism to be in a very flourishing
condition, notwithstanding the hard times and the general depression in
business. To supply the demand for spirit-teachings, Mrs. Cora
(Tappan) Eichmond is delivering her eloquent inspirational discourses
to large audiences twice every Sunday, at Grow’s Hall, under the
auspices of the First Society of Spiritualists, who also conduct meetings
of the Children’s Progressive Lyceum weekly.
Mr. S. S. Jones, in his new publishing house, assisted by his able
associate editor, Mr. J. E. Francis, continues to issue his largely-cir¬
culated Religio-Philosophical Journal regularly, besides doing a busy
trade in selling spiritual and liberal books and pamphlets.
To satisfy the desire to witness the phenomena, prominent among the
physical mediums located here, giving sittings, are Bastian and Taylor,
the Bangs Sisters, Dr. Witherforde, and Mrs. Sugdam, the fire-test
medium.
The first-named gentlemen are meeting with fine success, and giving
general satisfaction in their materialising seances. At one of their
Wednesday night circles, private and select, formed for the purpose of
developing the powers of the medium, and to give the best conditions to
get the best results, I was admitted as a visitor to witness the most
wonderful spirit materialisations I have ever seen.
A spirit, the daughter of Mr. Hale, came plainly out to the company.
I then received the splendid test of being led into the cabinet, to feel
the medium, Mr. Bastian, sitting in his chair, while the beautiful
young lady, in radiant white robes, stood by my side.
I also attended one of the Bangs Sisters’ circles, and was well satis¬
fied with the proofs of the fine mediumship of the two girls yet young
in years.
Foremost in the mental phase are Mrs. Weeks, Mrs. Blade, Miss
Shaw, Mrs. Beaufeat, Mrs. Bishop, Mrs. De Wolf, Mrs. Crocker, and
Mrs. Wood, all of whom are meeting with more or less success in their
respective fields.
Of the healers and doctors, Mrs. Eobinson, Dr. Bishop, Dr. Ormsbee,
Dr. Cleveland, and Dr. Wheat, are doing good work, and performing
many marvellous cures.
Chicago is also well provided with drawing mediums, Prof. Anderson,
Mr. A. Douglas, and Mrs. Wheat each exhibiting their artistic powers
in producing pictures of spirits under the control of the disembodied
masters.
Such is a general mention of my professional co-workers in the
cause of Truth, fulfilling their heaven-given missions faithfully in this
city.
Now, for the sake of travelling brother and sister mediums, as well as
friends of our philosophy, who wish to stay a short time in Chicago,
$$ THE SPililTUAtlST. Feb. 2, 1871
I would recommend the St. James (formerly the Metropolitan) as a good
hotel; its proprietor, Mr. Strong, being favourably inclined towards
Spiritualism, besides being a genial and attentive host/
I purpose leaving soon for the East, where I intend to remain only a
short time, then return again to England next summer.
Lottie Fowler.
St. James’s Hotel, Chicago, 111., January 7th, 1877. •
SPIRIT IDENTITY.
Sir,—Allow me to send you for publication, if you think proper, the
following remarkable communication I, some months ago, received
through the mediumship of Mr. J. V. Mansfield, of New York City,
from my mother, who is now an inhabitant of the next world.
I called to see Mr. Mansfield one morning, simply to obtain the
address of a friend of his, who had lately changed his residence, and I
had not the slightest idea of receiving any communication through Ms
agency; but, when I was leaving, he asked me if I had not some ques¬
tions I wished to ask of any of my spirit friends. I told him “ Yes; but
at present I could not afford it, times being too hard to spend any money
except for absolute necessities.” But he told me to sit down, and write
any questions I wished; and, if answered, it should be free of charge.
After thanking him, I wrote the following:—
My dear Father,—Do you advise me, to the best of your knowledge, to
go into the advertising business with Mr. N , or not?—Your affectionate I
son, Noel. j
While writing the question I was seated at a separate table, several i
yards from the medium, and am sure he could not see what I wrote. I
folded it up carefully, and handed it to him, when he laid it on the
table, and put and kept his left hand on it; then, in my presence, and
without my eyes being taken off him the whole time, he was influenced
to write the ’following answer :—
My dear Son,—As your father is not at this moment present, I will say j
what I consider to be your duty ; I think your father would approve of my [
judgment in the matter. I do think, as times are, it would not much improve I
your trade by making the change you contemplate ; your book business is as j
good as any other at this time; none is good for anything at present, I would j
not embark in any business, advertising, or what not for the present. Get i
along as cheaply as you can; by-and-by we may advise a change, but not
now. Your father and I often visit dear old Grantham ; the last time we did
so we met Sir Isaac Newton looking over his boyhood school place. We then j
wandered up and down the two main streets, then down by the Malting I
Houses, down the canal, and then to our spirit homes.—Your mother, 0. i
I will here state that I am very little known to Mr. Mansfield, merely i
a nodding acquaintance, and being English, having been born at I
Grrantham, Lincolnshire, he could not possibly know anything about me
or my antecedents, and I have never had any conversation with him on
the subject. You will perceive that, after answering my question, my
dear mother then proceeded to establish her identity, which she very j
successfully accomplished, and the following is an explanation of the j
latter part of the communication.
My father passed into spirit life in the year 1866, holding the office of
mayor of the town of Grantham, Lincolnshire, at the time. My mother i
passed to the spirit world about 16 years previously. When living on j
this planet, my mother always spoke of Grantham as “ dear old Grant- j
ham,” as in the communication, and some few years previous to my
father casting off “this earthly tenement of clay,” he was the chief
means of having a statue of Sir Isaac Newton erected at Grantham,
Sir Isaac Newton having been born near Grantham, and received his
early education at Grantham College.
The town also contains two main streets, and the malting houses
spoken of are Lee’s malting houses, well-known in Grantham and
vicinity; and on the banks of the canal mentioned are situated the gas
works, of which my father was the manager; he was also secretary to
the gas company. Thus my parents were naturally attracted to their j
old associations ; and, finally, the communication was signed “ C.,” my
mother’s name being Caroline.
None of our family are now living at Grantham. We have been •
scattered in different directions since the death of my father.
A few months ago, in the course of a sitting with Mrs. Read, an j1
excellent trance medium of this city, I was told that an aunt of mine, a |
Mrs. Axruaun, of London, had passed to the spirit world, three days !1
previous to the sitting. In course of time I received a letter confirming |1
the fact. • Noel Winter. h
87, Fulton-street, New York City, U.S. ' h
Dec. 29th, 1876.   
MR. WILLIAM LAWRENCE. ' ll
Sir,—Very strong evidence in favour of the truth of Mr. Lawrence’s i]
mediumship was given at the trial by Hulbert, the prosecutor. He i i
stated that before the candles were put out, a blank sheet of paper was |1
initialled by several of the visitors, and laid upon the table, together I,
with water-colour paints. When the gas was lighted again a water- ji
colour drawing was found upon the paper. He also spoke to the fast of ij
spirit lights falling down from the ceiling and fluttering about. ,
H. Wedgwood. j<
31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, London. * !1
> ij
Mr. John H. Conant, husband of the late Mrs. Fannie Conant, of the i
Banner of Light, died recently at Taunton, U.S., and was buried at j<
Forest Hills Cemetery. |j
The editor of the American Spiritual Magazine has found a new |
medium in Memphis, Tenn. Cabinet manifestations, slate-writing, j
levitation, and movement of material objects through closed rooms, are a :<
few of the many phases of mediumship possessed by this young lady, H
who a few months ago ridiculed the subject. i
A MEDIUM HONESTLY TESTED BY DAILY NEWSPAPER
MEN.
Ip the London daily papers had accepted Dr. Slade’s straightforward
invitation to them directly he arrived in London, to examine the phe¬
nomena which take place in his presence, and to publish the results,
the public would have been more accurately informed on many points
than they are at present. The following report from the Newcastle
Chronicle of Jan. 25th shows the trustwortMness of the press in that
town, and another account of some facts will be found on page 60 :—
“ The part of the proceedings which excited most attention was a
public performance by a young lad, given after Mrs. Butterfield had
finished. The boy, whose name is Walter Bamford, is only eleven
years of age, and comes from Macclesfield. He is an intelligent-looking
lad, and very quiet. The gas was not turned down, and most of the
conditions usually enforced at a private seance were discarded, the
only appliance used being a “ cabinet,” formed before the eyes of the
audience by means of a green curtain and a.piece of oilcloth. Some
delay was caused at the beginning by the question of who should see
that the lad was properly secured to the chair, and ultimately, at the
unanimous request of the audience, this was deputed to the reporters
present from the three local newspapers and a gentleman from Adelaide.
The lad was accordingly tied under their directions. Strong tapes were
stitched to the wristbands of his shirt; he was then put in a large
black calico sack, the mouth of which was stitched to the neckband of
his shirt, leaving his head, of course, free ; the tapes tied to his
wrists were passed through small holes in the sack, and were firmly
tied to the legs of the chair 5 and last of all his feet were tied together
with a handkerchief, and also fastened to one of the legs of the
chair. In this position Bamford was lifted into the recess. Two small
bells were placed upon his knees, the curtains were drawn close together
so as to hide him from the eyes of the audience, and in a second the
bells commenced to ring loudly, and one of them fell to the floor. It
was explained that the curtains could not be opened until a knock of
some sort was heard inside. The bell performance was repeated two or
three times, and always ended with one of them falling to the floor.
A mouth-harmonicon was next placed on the lad’s knee. When the
curtain was opened it was found in his mouth, and at the request of a
gentleman it was played upon for about half a minute. A hat was then
placed on his knees, the curtains were closed, and in a second after,
when they were withdrawn, the hat was found upon his head. A ring
was next placed upon his lap, and it was asked that it should be passed
on to a certain finger of his left hand. This feat took a longer time to
perform, but when the knocks were given the ring was found.to have
passed through the sack and all the tyings to the finger desired. The
same was done with another ring. A watch was passed through the
same way into his waistcoat pocket, and the Albert chain followed, and
was fastened to the watch in the same manner that the owner usually
wore it. The ring and the watch feats of course took a longer time
than the others. At the conclusion of the performance Bamford was
lifted out of the cabinet, and all the knots and fastenings were found
the same as when he was put in. All the stitchings were unmoved,
and had to be cut before the lad could be got out of the sack. The
knots on the tapes were untouched; they were stretched a little,
though nothing to speak of, and it was apparent that very little indi¬
vidual motion had taken place during the exhibition. When he was
got out of the calico bag, the rings and watch that had been passed
through were found on his fingers and in his pocket. The room was
quite light while these feats were being performed. The lad was, of
course, hid from view while the ringings, etc., were going on, but could
always be seen sitting in his chair every time the curtains were with¬
drawn. A collection was made at the close on behalf of the boy.”
THE END OF THE LAST SLADE CASE.
On Monday, January 29th, the Middlesex magistrates, to the num¬
ber of about 30, presided over by Mr. Edlin, Q.C., the Assistant-Judge,
sat in the Court-house, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, for the purpose
of hearing the appeal brought by Dr. Henry Slade, the American
Spiritualist, of 8, Upper Bedford-place, against his conviction by Mr.
Flowers, the stipendiary magistrate at Bow-street, and his sentence of
three months’ imprisonment as a rogue and vagabond under the statute.
Dr. Slade was prosecuted recently before Mr. Flowers, at the instance
of Professor Lankester, F.R.S., and Dr. H. B. Donkin, the charge, in
effect, being that he had obtained money by falsely pretending that
certain writing shown on a slate was that of his deceased wife, “ Allie,”
and that by using a subtle craft, means, or device, by palmistry or
otherwise, he deceived and imposed on her Majesty’s subjects; in other
words, that he professed to be a medium, and so to be able to communi¬
cate with the spirit world.
The grounds set forth by Dr. Slade against his conviction were—that
he was convicted without proper evidence; that he was not guilty; that
Mr. Flowers, the magistrate, had no jurisdiction; that the substance of
the complaint was not stated to him; and that the conviction was bad
in law, and ought therefore to be quashed.
Mr. Serjeant Ballantine, Mr. Besley, and Mr. C. Mathews were
counsel for the appellant; and Mr. Staveley Hill, Q.C., and Mr. Cooper
appeared on behalf of the Treasury to support the conviction. Mr.
Ignatius Williams watched the case on behalf of the gentlemen who had
given bail and some of the defence committee.
A number of well-known believers in Spiritualism were present, but
the court was in no way inconveniently crowded. Dr. Slade, apparently
unwell, and Mr. Simmons, his assistant, sat below the counsel, and in
the centre of the court were a couple of prison warders and some officers
of police.
The conviction, as drawn by the Treasury, having been formally
read by Mr. Beal, the deputy Clerk of the Peace,
THE SPIRITUALIST
59
Feb. 2, 1877.
Mr. Serjeant Ballantine asked, to be allowed to peruse it, and having f)
observed the form in which the conviction was set forth, he rose, and, | (
addressing the Bench, said that he wished to call attention to a prelim- j (
inary objection which he had to make to the conviction as worded. It | )
was a matter purely of law, and, unless he was greatly mistaken, there | j
would at once be an end to the case. The magistrates would not be |)
surprised to find that he was present to raise two questions, one being j).
a matter of fact, to be decided by their intelligent Bench, as to whether | \
the appellant Slade was a person who had been guilty of imposture; ||
and the other whether, supposing such a fact to have been proved, it |)
had been proved so as to substantiate the character of the fraud as con- \(
templated by the Act of Parliament whether, as he understood in the j)
judgment of Mr. Flowers, it amounted to the offence of palmistry, or j)
something ejusdem generis. To his astonishment—and he thought it I j
would excite the astonishment of every member of the Bench—the i)
conviction did not declare or charge the appellant with anything of the |)
kind. It might be somewhat appropriate to the charge made in the | (
case, but it looked to him as if, by some sleight of hand, the only I)
material words, “ by palmistry or otherwise,” under which Slade could Ij
be convicted had been omitted. With those words not in the conviction, \{
he apprehended that the charge against the appellant could not be sup- i)
ported for five minutes. He was addressing them as lawyers, and he 11
should point out what,he, as a lawyer, conceived to be a fatal objection \)
in the case. The learned serjeant then called the attention of the j)
magistrates to the words of the Vagrant Act, 5th G-eorge IV., cap. 83, y
sec. 4, in order to show that not only the law but common»sense was in j j
favour of the views he was taking. The section recited that “ every j)
person pretending or professing to tell fortunes, or using any subtle jy
craft, means, or device, by palmistry or otherwise, to deceive and impose jj
upon any of her Majesty’s subjects, shall be adjudged and liable to the f)
penalties imposed by this Act.” Is
The Assistant-Judge observed that the words “ palmistry or other- I
wise” were altogether omitted in the form of conviction as set forth by i)
the Crown. jy
Mr. Serjeant Ballantine said that it was so, and he believed he ought ij
at once to sit down. If the conviction as drawn up was a child of his j)
learned friend, Mr. Staveley Hill, it was clearly one of an indifferent I
character, and a very short-lived one indeed. The omission of the ij
words, doubtless, was a fiasco on the part of those who had undertaken jy
the prosecution; in fact, it was as if they were about to put a prisoner j j
again upon his trial for a matter upon which he had never been con- jj
victed. By the conviction, indeed, no offence whatever was created, l j
either at common law or under the statute. A case was being argued in i j
the Exchequer Court upon the very words that had been omitted. In ij
the case of Monck, sent up to the court by the magistrates of Hudders- j y
field, the “ palmistry or otherwise ” had been inserted. If those words ij
were to be held to apply they might cover any possible offence, forgery, j j
cheating at cards, dressing oneself up as a ghost with the intention of jy
frightening persons—or, in fact, any possible offence that could be com- I j
mitted. j)
The Assistant-Judge said if these words had been omitted from the ly
conviction, and that took it out of the statute, the conviction might be j j
amended; but if they were inserted then there still remained the im- |j
portant question whether the facts set forth could be added to this con- jy
viction. jj
Mr. Serjeant Ballantine replied that his contention was that by such j)
an error as this there was an absence of any offence, and they could not j y
make something out of nothing. jj
The Assistant-Judge, addressing himself to Mr. Staveley Hill, wished I
to know if he was in a position to add to the facts set forth in support of j j
the conviction—to give any evidence that would supplement the facts. I
The question had reference to “ palmistry or otherwise,” and he asked ly
whether the learned gentleman was in a position by an addition to say j j
whether those facts could be determined. I
Mr. Hill replied that at the beginning of a case it was impossible for jy
him to say what might be produced by the evidence on the mind of the I
Court. To say that would be stepping entirely out of his province. jj
The Assistant-Judge asked Mr. Hill, as counsel for the Crown, jy
whether he was in a position to state that by the evidence to be given j j
he was prepared to add to the facts as set forth in the conviction. , jj
Mr. Hill said that that was a matter he would rather leave to the j
Court. j
The Assistant-Judge must call upon Mr. Hill distinctly to answer jj
the preliminary objection as to the omission of the words “ palmistry or jy
otherwise.” , , j
Mr. Staveley Hill urged that the words “palmistry or otherwise” j
were advisedly left out, but at the end of the case he might think it j y
necessary that they should be added, and, in that case, he would ask jj
the Court to amend the conviction. If the Court thought that there j j
would be a failure of justice unless the amendment were made, of course I y
he must bow to the suggestion, otherwise he should not accept it. j j
Mr. Serjeant Ballantine strenuously objected to his learned friend jj
thus claiming a right to make an amendment. j j
The Assistant-Judge said that the question before them was whether j
the omission of the words might be amended by being added. The jj
amendment would not necessarily validate the conviction. The Court j j
gave the learned counsel the opportunity of amending the conviction, |j
and he said that he had advisedly made the omission, and was pre- jj
pared to stand or fall by it. He now said that if the Court thought that jj
the words might be added, he was prepared to bow to the Court, and let jj
the conviction be amended. Even at that late stage he would give him jj
the option of doing so. ij
Mr. Serjeant Ballantine objected, and, standing upon his just rights, jj
urged that if this were the case of a wretched beggar, such a conviction j
would not for one moment be permitted. jj
The Assistant-Judge said the learned counsel for the prosecution j
could scarcely have a loom penitentice. if
Mr. Staveley Hill objected to such a term, but if the Court thought
there was to be a failure of justice, then he would amend the conviction;
otherwise, he 
Mr. Serjeant Ballantine objected to that, and called upon the Court
to quash the conviction.
After a long legal argument, in which Mr. Cooper also took part, the
Court retired to consider their decision, and, after an absence of an hour,
returned, when—
The Assistant-Judge gave the decision of the Court, as follows
There can be no better illustration than this case of the justice and
necessity that summary convictions must show upon the face of them
everything required to give the magistrate jurisdiction; and that, there¬
fore, in reciting the statute under which the case came, care must be
taken to state it correctly, and not to omit qualifying words which are an
indispensable element in the character of the offence with which the law
authorises him to deal; and that, therefore, also, the facts themselves
must be set out so that the Court may judge whether they amount in
law to the specified offence. The clause in the Vagrant Act, upon which
this conviction proceeds, enacts that every person pretending or profess¬
ing to tell fortunes, or using any subtle craft, means, or device by
palmistry or otherwise, to deceive and impose on any of his Majesty’s
subjects, shall be deemed a rogue and vagabond within the meaning of
the Act, and be committed to the House of Correction, and there kept to
hard labour for any term not exceeding, three months. Now the convic¬
tion, as the learned serjeant has objected, does not charge an offence in
the words of the Act, but, contrary to the general rule to be observed in
this respect, in the statement of the offence it follows in part only, inas¬
much as it omits the words “ by palmistry or otherwise,” which are of vital
importance, being, in fact, descriptive of the character of the craft or
device intended by the statute. The reasons for this omission and for
framing the conviction in its present form are not far to seek. If the
particular description “by palmistry” were applicable to the case it
was unnecessary to avoid it; and if the facts had been such as to bring
the case within the meaning of the Act, preceded by the description, it
would be sufficient to quote the language of the enactment, and then to
proceed to set out the facts and the circumstances relied on to constitute
the offence. Mr. Hill, however, contends that the conviction is suf¬
ficient upon the face of it for this purpose. The Court are of a contrary
opinion. The word “ otherwise,” following the particular description in
the statute, must of course be construed in accordance with the restrictive
rule applicable in such cases, that the means used to deceive and impose
must be by palmistry or a craft or device ejusdem generis. The judg¬
ment of the Court of Queen’s Bench in “ Johnson v. Fenner,” referred
t6, is conclusive on this point, and, inasmuch as the conviction by
omitting these essential and qualifying words, and then setting out facts
which might possibly constitute an offence under the enactment—but
which might also amount to no offence had the Act been properly set
out—we think it is bad on the face of it, and, as the learned counsel
appearing for the Crown has declined to ask the Court to amend it, we
must quash the conviction.
The decision was received with applause.
Mr. Staveley Hill asked for a case to be granted on the point raised.
The Assistant-Judge said that the learned gentleman had refused to
avail himself of the offer to amend, and the magistrates had given their
decision in deference to what he had said.
Mr. Hill observed that his application was for a case, to determine
whether or not the words omitted were necessary to a conviction.
Mr. Serjeant Ballantine apprehended that the Court had no power to
grant such an application. His learned friend could apply to the
Court of Queen’s Bench for a mandamus, and he (the seijeaut) would
reargue the point to the utmost, i
The Assistant-Judge said it was impossible for the magistrates not to
consider other facts which had not appeared on the face of the con¬
viction. Having quashed the conviction, were they to suspend their
decision until a supreme court had given j udgment as to the course they
had pursued 1 or, if they decided to adjourn the case, were they to
require the defendant to enter again into his recognisances to appear at
some future time for their decision ? The magistrates had considered
the case, and had given their decision, and no such application could
be entertained.
Dr. Slade then left the court with his friends.
The following resolutions were arrived at by the magistrates :—
First—“ That the conviction, as it comes before us, is sufficient to
proceed with.”—24 voted against 4.
Second—“If the judge decides that the conviction is bad, and that
it can be amended, it is the wish of the magistrates that it should be
amended.”—25 voted against 3.—Daily Telegraph.
A Mental Question Answered.—The Rev. Joseph Parker, D.D.,
writes, in a new journal called The Fountain:—u I am certainly no
believer in so-called Spiritualistic manifestations. I am at the same
time bound to say that, on one occasion, my scepticism received a
somewhat staggering blow. I entered a room where a number of
young ladies were operating with a small three-wheel instrument called
a, planchette. I heard their wonderful stories regarding this little
runner, and incredulously said, ‘ If it will answer me a question which
is now in my mind, and which I will not put into words, then I will
believe that there is some sense in it.’ The challenge was at once ac¬
cepted. The question which I mentally asked was, f Who is to be the
architect of the City Temple ? ’ and, to my surprise, the little instru¬
ment gave the name of a gentleman who had, within three days of
that time, submitted plans for its erection. I do not pretend to account
for this; there is the simple fact of the case, and I have no explanation
of it. Certainly since that time I have spoken in more respectful terms
than before of Miss FlancheUe^
GO
THE SPIRITUALIST. Feb. 2. 1877.
A SERMON ON THE NATURE OF SPIRIT.
At St. Mary’s, Moorfields, on Sunday morning, January 21st, tlie
Very Rev. Canon Gilbert delivered a discourse on “ Whether there is
a-Spiritual soul distinct from the body,” to a crowded congregation.
For his text he chose the words—(l And the Lord God formed man of
the slime of the earth, and breathed into his face the breath of life,
and man became a living soul/” (Genm's ii. 7).
The very rev. preacher said, from the time that these words were uttered
it has been the constant belief in all ages, of Jews, pagans, and all
true Christians, that man is composed of body and soul; the one
visible, the other invisible ; one material, the other spiritual ; both
having distinct existences, but so joined together that the union of
the soul and body results in life ; but when disunited results in death to
the body. The soul has neither parts, shape, nor form, for if it had
any of these properties it would not be spiritual, but material; and
because the soul is spiritual there is no possibility of its dissolution : it
possesses no properties which could cause it to decay or'decompose.
It cannot be destroyed without a special act of God. Because the
soul is spiritual it possesses the properties of spiritual substances,
one of which is that it can be at many places at one and the same
time; it is present at one and the same time in every part of the i
body. But some will say it is difficult, if not impossible, to form an
idea of such a substance as the soul—invisible, indestructible, without j
part, shape or form, and present at many places at the same time.
Now God is such a substance. He is invisible, having neither part,
shape, nor form, and has the power of being present at many dif¬
ferent places simultaneously. But there are other wonderful properties
of the soul. You think, reason, see, hear, feel, but these faculties do
not pertain to be external senses themselves. These have no more j
power of perception than the spectacles you wear or the artificial
hands and feet you use. It is the soul only that hears, sees, thinks, j
feels. Your brain and nervous system are powers of conveyance to
the soul. They are as is the electric machine to the electrician, or the
instrument to the musician. If the instrument becomes injured or i
out of tune, or if a key is wanting, instead of harmony discord is
produced; and, further, tear the strings of the harp asunder, and,
although the harpist retains the same power, not a sound is produced.
In like manner is it with the human qualities. The soul is the life, j
When that is disunited from the body, animation and powers are
suspended—death ensues : the powers apparently possessed by faculties j
and senses are entirely destroyed. The very rev. gentleman followed |
by stating the arguments used by some scientific men against the im- |
mortality of the soul, and concluded by enforcing his point of the
supremacy of the soul and impotency of the body.
THE LATE ANDREW LEIGHTON. f
[From the Liverpool (l ArffusF)
It was with a feeling of shocked and sad surprise that, last Monday j
morning we received the news of the death of Andrew Leighton, s:(
known to many of our readers as a thoughtful and cultured writer, j’
and to a large circle of friends as one of the most genial, tender, and i j
true-hearted of men. Mr. Leighton died very suddenly on Sunday |(
morning, at his residence in High Park-street, from the rupture of a j(
blood-vessel on the lungs. On the Thursday morning previous he was | j
in the office of this journal, making arrangements with the Editor for j
the publication of a letter on the vaccination controversy, which ap- i
pears in our issue of to-day, and which has now a melancholy interest |)
as the last literary work of a man whose interest in philosophy, litera- j
ture, and certain departments of science, was always vivid and keen, H
and whose expressional powers were singularly exact, flexible, and ||
copious. He informed the writer of these lines that he had just re- i
turned from a brief business excursion to Scotland, where he had, for j j
the first time in his life, been a little startled by a slight hemorrhage |
from the lungs; but the alarming symptoms had passed away, and |
Mr. Leighton seemed in his usual fair health and equable spirits. |)
Before three days, however, had passed, the gentle spirit had flown to j)
that other world for which he remarked, with a quiet smile which i
the writer will long remember, that he had <e made everything ready.” j
Mr. Leighton was sixty-one years of age, and was born in Dundee, !)
in which town his father was a respectable and respected townsman. |j
From Dundee, Andrew, like many another adventurous young Scots- jj
man, found his way to London, and finally arrived in Liverpool. For |(
some time he was agent for the District Provident Society, and, with i (
his inborn love for the things of the mind, was not long in gathering j j
round him a circle of congenial friends, to whom he was endeared by i(
the singular geniality and graciousness of his disposition. For many ] (
years, the most noteworthy member of this circle was his brother !)
Robert, whose lamented and too ..early death took place a few years j)
ago. Mr. Robert Leighton was a poet of rare, delicate, and beautiful ! (
genius, abundantly manifested in his Records, his Musings, his j)
numerous occasional poems, his singularly interesting letters, which j<
well deserve publication, and his powerful, though somewhat unequal, i
drama, or dramatic poem, entitled Reuben, which was given to the j)
world by his widow some time after his death. The two brothers K
entertained for each other an affection more than ordinarily intense, ij
and any tribute to the memory of Robert never failed to win a way for i)
the tribute-giver into Andrew’s heart. To say that he valued it more jj
than any acknowledgment of the merit of his own work, would be to I )
say nothingfor never was man freer than Andrew Leighton from that | <
morbid self-consciousness which seems always on the look-out for re- j j
cognition and applause. But, to speak or to write of his brother was i j
always a joy to him; to expatiate with affectionate, but never indis- j
criminating, criticism upon the felicities of thought and phrase with j
which Robert’s poems abound, was a veritable labour of love ; and the j
writer well remembers the enthusiasm with which Mr. Leighton wel- 1
corned a suggestion made about a couple of months ago that he should
contribute to the columns of the Argus two or three brief papers dealing
with his brother’s most noteworthy characteristics, both as a man and
a poet. It is probable that, in the midst of other engagements, this
pleasant task was put off to some halcyon moment of unbroken repose
and uninterrupted inspiration; and now, the work, if ever accom¬
plished, will probably be performed by some far less skilled and graceful
pen.
Andrew Leighton took a great interest in all literary and scientific
pursuits and institutions. When the Roscoe Club was established in
Clay ton-square he was appointed manager, and a similar position at
the Exchange Club was subsequently occupied by him. The writer
first met him at one of the gatherings of the If Hope-street Social
Union,” a semi-social, semi-intellectual association, composed princi¬
pally, though not exclusively, of the members of the congregation of
the Hope-street Unitarian Church, where for many years he worshipped.
On such a matter as a man’s religious feeling and belief one is bound to
speak cautiously; but there are many reasons for thinking that
Andrew Leighton was never a very enthusiastic Unitarian. Not that
he felt in the least attracted by any of the so-called more orthodox
churches or sects, but because he felt most at home in that higher
spiritual region in which polemical metaphysics and sharp dogmatic
outlines appear matters of somewhat minor importance, and therefore
cared little to assume a decided sectarian position, or to do battle in
defence of his “ views ” or opinions.
Like many Scotchmen, and most copious talkers, Andrew Leighton’s
speech was slow and unemphatic, but congenial spirits never failed to
find him a fascinating conversationalist; for, though hardly ever what
is called brilliant, his talk was always interesting and often singularly
suggestive. He loved the by-ways of thought, and the twilight of the
intellectual world—the secluded paths which are free from the noise
and dust of the highways, and that sw;eet gloaming which has not
quite lost the light of day, but has gained the charm and mystery of
night. A singularly beautiful, gentle, and simple nature—kindly and
free ; a pious spirit turning instinctively, like a flower, in the direction
of the Great Sun ; a mind uniting the freshness of childhood with the
vigour of healthy maturity; a generous heart and an open hand ;—
these, and much more than these, have been lost to those who knew
and loved him, by the death of Andrew Leighton.
James Ashcroi’t Noble.
A REMARKABLE PUBLIC SEANCE IN NEWCASTLE.
Mus. Butterfield has been delivering a course of trance addresses
in Newcastle and neighbourhood. On Sunday, Jan. 21st, she spoke
twice at the Freemasons’ Old Hall, Weir’s-court, and again on Wednes¬
day, the 24th, at the same place, to a full audience.
After the address, a seance was held for physical manifestations,
and a temporary cabinet was made for the occasion by taking down the
curtain* and rod from one of the windows, and fixing them in the
corne^ of the Hall, on the platform. The medium for the occasion was
the lad, Walter Bamford, of Macclesfield.
The securing of the medium was, by the unanimous wish of the
audience, entrusted to the reporters of the local press, namely, the
Journal, Chronicle, and Express, together with a gentleman from New
South Wales. They thoroughly secured the lad with tapes, a lady out
of the audience stitching the knots under their superintendence ; after
which, the medium was placed in a bag, secured round the neck, then
fastened to a chair, and lifted into the cabinet. Bells, a tambourine,
mouth harmonicon, and other things, were then placed inside the cabinet
successively, and, within a minute or so, and, in some cases, within only
as many seconds, the instruments were played upon and used with great
power. The immediate opening of the curtains revealed the medium,
quite passive, and in the same position as when placed inside the
cabinet. Two rings and a gentleman’s watch were taken from the boy’s
lap, and, by request, the watch was put into the boy’s vest pocket, as
worn, and the rings were placed on certain fingers. When the lad was
brought out of the cabinet he was taken out of the bag, after which his
bonds were cut; the releasing of the medium occupied the Journa
reporter ten minutes, or more, and when he was asked by some one in
the audience whether the fastenings were the same, he said that, so far
as he could see, everything was the same, and he could give no explana¬
tion of the facts.
A voice from the audience asked—“ Is it the same lad?”
Mr. Bamford said that he wished to make a few remarks. He had
not been in the room before; he and his son only entered the hall that
evening at eight o’clock, and, with the exception of the mouth harmoni¬
con, all the instruments that had been used belonged to the society. The
rest of the arrangements had all been under the observation of those
present, in full gaslight. Mr. W. R. Armstrong, jun., then stated that,
as an amateur conjurer, he could, if he had his own conditions, do all
that had been done that evening; but, under the conditions that had
been imposed that evening upon the lad Bamford, he could not; and in
that consisted the difference between conjuring and the results of
spiritual manifestations.
A collection was made for the lad, and a quantity of leaflets about
Spiritualism was given away, as many strangers were present.
Private seances with Walter Bamford, are giving great satisfaction in
Newcastle-on-Tyne. J. T. Rhodes.
30, Tynemouth-road, Newcastle.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A Manchester Correspondent wishes to know what are the facts in relation
to the alleged conversion to Spiritualism of the late Dr. Elliotson.
S. P.—Your letter on vaccination consists wholly of personal opinions, and
contains no facts throwing light upon the points of contention.
Feb. 2, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
tEor purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
f'ented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Is. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete With well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. Is. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, B.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Rhssell Wallace, E.R.G-.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
ldiC6 6s
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING- SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
tor inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums . .also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Oox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, bytbe Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through tbe
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not he taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OE IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion ; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles an’d Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
Is 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals Iwere
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the rohahility of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little unuerstood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume. -
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, hut these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life pn earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s, 6d.; cheap edition,
7s. Od,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. " This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and tbe
book consists of descriptions of seances at whicb materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. 6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM ..MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
5s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. :
POEMS BY AOHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
, MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is Contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6<L
WILL-ABIL IT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. OONANT. 7s. 0d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardeo. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OE NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OP A BRIGHTER LAND. Aninteresting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGIOAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OP THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tattle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TEST AMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. ud.) 4s.
Lately published, in two volumes, 8vor cloth, price 28s.
PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE on the
NATURE and CONSTITUTION of MAN. By Gkorge
G-. HARMS, LL.D., F.S.A., Barrister-at-law, Vice-President of
the Psychological Society, and of the Anthropological Institute
and Author of “The Theory of the Arts,” “Civilisation con¬
sidered as a Science,” &c.
This work embraces a comprehensive and complete survey
of the nature and constitution of man, physical, moral, and
intellectual, exhibiting, moreover, the mutual connection and
dependence of each branch. Topics connected with _ the
spiritual being, and the leading opinions on this subject,
including the nature, essence, properties, and mode of opera¬
tion of the soul; the alliance between matter and spirit;
reason and instinct, their affinity and diversity, more espe¬
cially, are here discussed; and a new theory is propounded of
our intellectual system, as also respecting the distribution,
mode of action, discipline, and cultivation of the mental
faculties.
Eminent authorities on certain of the subjects here embraced,
among them some distinguished writers on psychology, physio¬
logy and natural history, foreign as well as English, have been
in correspondence with, and have been consulted by the
author, by several of whom valuable notes, which will be read
with much interest, on various and important controverted
points, have been contributed.
“ The writer who undertakes a work like this, requires at
once a comprehensive intellect, a widespread reading and
experience, an unprejudiced mind, and almost superhuman
industry. All these qualities appear to be combined in Mr.
Harris.”—Westminster Review.
“ A treatise so ambitious and comprehensive in subject and
scope, demands great natural powers, immense research,
patient meditation, and assimilation of the labours of others.
All these requisites Mr. Harris brings to his task. His work
proves that a searching inquiry into man’s nature is alike
independent of two extremes, the negation of Atheism, and
theological intolerance. A perusal will lead every man of
faith to inquire more, and every man of science to believe
more.—Hour.
“ This work is one of considerable value, and of deep interest.
Indeed, it is somewhat difficult to lay it down when you have
once become absorbed by its contents. We moreover venture
to assert that it is impossible to read a single chapter of. the
book without being struck with the vast array of authorities,
ancient and modern, that have been read or consulted, the
wide and varied information sought or obtained, and the
original thought displayed in dealing with its deeply interesting
and abstruse objects of research.”—/o/w Bull.
“Dr. Harris has evidently read the writings of both ancient
and modern anthropologists and philosophers with care ; and
the work will always be valuable as indicative of deep re¬
search, and a sound, though diffuse, method of treating the
subject. Every quality and style of thought are represented
by the gentlemen who have contributed to the notes, which
range from the thoughs of Mr. Gladstone and Dr. Newman to
those of Sir John Lubbock.”—Public Opinion.
“This is a most elaborate and learned production, and
testifies on the part of its author his immense research and
great ingenuity. It is, without the name, an Encyclopedia
of man. Dr. Harris’s work is-very valuable as a great collec¬
tion of facts, most of them thoroughly sifted by himself, and
many of them having been subjected to the correction of
acknowledged authorities.”—Dundee Advertiser*
“The present work is the first attempt of the kind; and Dr.
Harris deserves praise for the origin and completion of his
most laborious performance. In tnese frivolous days, such
books and such authors are rare. Altogether, it is a produc¬
tion highly creditable to the intelligence and industry of the
author, and one which no one interested in the subject on
which he writes can read without profit.”—Literary World.
' “We have probably quoted enough from this very thought¬
ful and suggestive work to induce the many members of the
Institute who are interested in the psychological treatment of
the question, to seek pleasure and instruction in its pages.
Added value is given to it by the interesting circumstance
that tbe proof sheets of several portions were submitted to
learned friends of tbe author—such as Sir John Lubbock, Dr.
Richardson, Dr. Newman, and many others—and have been
enriched by their comments.”—Journal of the Anthropological
nstitute.
London: Georgb Bell & Sons, York-street, Covent-garden.
Bv Royal Letters Patent.
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR, ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Laee or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all oiher mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-crosw,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. JOHN ROUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D ,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about an’mal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand'a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, hut which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage ■ 4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
IV
.TEE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 2, 1877.
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
Dr. Slade, a stranger, from the United States, on his
journey to St. Petersburg, is, by an unfortunate sentence of a
magistrate, under condemnation to imprisonment, and punish¬
ment appropriate to a criminal is meted out to him. This
highly-gifted sensitive, the greatest medium of the day in
England, is condemned to “hard labour,” and will, in January,
1877, become the forced associate of criminals. Unless we
adopt some effectual means, nothing can prevent this out¬
rageous calamity.
The affair is not individual, but relates to all. The struggle
raised before the nation is between Materialism and Spiritual¬
ism. A more important issue was never before us. Spiritual¬
ism demonstrates, through facts occurring around us, the
existence of a future life; while Materialism would deprive
humanity of the precious doctrine of immortality.
"When we reflect that the proceedings aimed at Dr. Slade
are really designed more as a blow to the sacred cause of
Spiritualism than against him, shall Spiritualists stand by
and accept the verdict without remonstrance? Will they,
without appeal, suffer him, whom they consider innocent, to
be imprisoned and punished as a felon without a struggle?
Assuredly not. Conscience being our witness, let us perform
what we know to be right.
The question is before us. According to the measure of
support so will be the power of the Committee, and their
ability for action.
Donations will be thankfully received by the joint treasurers
or by the secretary.
The Executive Committee.
Alexander Calder, 1, Hereford-
square, South Kensington, S.W.
f J. Enmore Jones, Enmore-park,
Honorary Treasurers. G^KWra,, M.D., 12, Great Cum-
V berland-place, W.
C, O. Massey.
W. S. Moses, M.A.
Hon. Sec.—A. Joy, 69, Great Bussell Street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
SUBSCKIPTIONS. £ s. d..
The St Petersburg Committee  50 0 0
Mr. G. C. Joad    30 0 0
Miss Douglas '.  25 0 0
“Nicodemus”  25 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder  21 0 0
„ J. N. T. Martheze   20 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn  20 0 0
Countess Caithness      10 10 0-
Mr. Martin Smith    10 10 0
„ Thomas Grant   10 10 0
Mr. W. Tebb     10 10 0
Miss H ;.... 10 10 0
i Mrs. Weldon     10 0 0
Sir O. Isham, Bart   10 0 0
Mr. A. Tod    10 0 0
„ J. Bulteel  10 0 0
“ Lady Jane Grey’’   10 0 0
B. P. J  |  10 0 0
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood  10 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe     10 0 0
Prince Emil von Wittgenstein  6 0 0
Mr. A. Joy    5 5 0
Mr. J. Enmore Jones     5 0 0
„ C. O. Massey       6 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   5 0 0
„ Douglas Bayley  5 0 0
Oscar von Hoffman   6 0 0
Dr. George Wyld   5 0 0
Mr. T. E. Partridge   5 0 0
Mrs. Hennings    5 0 0
Mr. N. Kilburn, jun  5 0 0
Dr. S. T. Speer      5 0 0
Mr. A. T. T. Peterson   5 0 0
“H.”     5 0 0
An American  5 0 0
Mrs. Bird    5 0 0
A. v. H     5 0 0
Friends at Belper, per W. P. Adshead   3 11 0
Newcastle, per H. N. Kersey   3 10 0
Mrs. Strawbridge   3 3 >0
Profit on Sale of Photographs   2 13 0
Mr. J. B. Stones      2 12 6
Mr. H. Withall       2 2 0
Captain James   2 2 0
M.A. (Oxon.)     2 2 0
Mr. C. Pearson     2 2 0
Mr. W. P. Adshead    2 2 0
Mr. F. W. Percival '.....  2 2 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun .’  2 2 0
Dr. J. Dixon    200
Mrs. Lowe   2 0 0
Mr. A. B. Wallace i  2 0 0
„ J. C. Ferguson  2 0 0
“ Disciple ”    2 0 0
Mrs. Watkins  2 0 0
Mr. J. H. Gledetanes  2 0 0
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore   2 0 0
F. J. T. (collected)    12 6
Mr. Geo. Stones    110
„ J. Mould     110
Dr. K. Cook..      110
K. G.   110
Friend to the Cause     110
Mrs. Mai thy    1 10
Mr. C. Ward ....,   110
■ „ E. D. Bogers     1 1 0
„ Morell Theobald  110
„ William Theobald    110
„ B. M. Theobald, M.D   1 1 0
„ H. N  110
' „ J. Andr.d      110
„ James Brown  110
The Misses Withall   110
Dr. Baikie  110
Anon, per C. C. Massey     110
A. M. W., by Mr. J. Bums   110
Mr. T. P. Barkas  110
Mrs. J. T. Vernon  110
Major Menars     10 0
Mr. Tucker  1 0 0
Mrs. S. Parker.  10 0
Miss Douglas Bayley   1 0 0
Mr. A. Smedley    1" 0 0
„ F. Smedley  10 0
“D ” (Clericus) }  10 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan  10 0
Mr. St. George Stock          10 0
,, C. Beimers   10 0
„ J.Walhouse  1 0 0
Scrutator.  10 0
Smaller sums |    8 10 6
Collected by Mr. J. Bums   2 7 6
Spiritualists’ Defence Fund continued.
From America.
The following consists of amounts advertised as received by
The Banner of Light newspaper, Boston, U.S., towards the “ Slade
Defence Fund,” up to the 13th Jan., of which £370 12s. Gd. has
already been remitted to England.
Colby and Bich (Publishers Banner oj Light), dols.
Boston  200,00
Epes Sargent, Esq., Boston   50.00
A. P. H. (a Spirit)  25,00
Mrs. Mary M. Hardy, Boston  25,00
Henry J. Horn, N, Y. City...    5,00
Jefferson Cutter, Medford, Mass  3,00
G. Sweet, N. Y. City  2,00
Daac Gibbs, Springfield, Mass  5,00
Harvey Howes, North Bennington, Vt  5,00
John A. Day, Norfolk, Mass  2,00
H. E. Parsons, Ashtabula, 0  100,00
J. L. Donaldson, Boston, Mass   5 00
W. H. B  3,00
Chas. Levy, St. Louis, Mo    2,00
A. Fuller, Waltham. Mass  2,00
Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston   10,00
L. B. Wilson, Boston   3,00
F. A. Gould, Boston   10,00
G. H. Woodis, Worcester    2,00
Wm. Benson, Albany, N.Y   100,00
David Appleton, Lowell, Mass  100,00
Andrew Williams, Lawrence. Mass  100,00
James Codihan, Worcester, Mass  100,00
Sarah Johnson, Worcester, Mass  100,00
Dr. Josiah Jordan, Springfield. Mass  5,00
Mrs. Louisa Andrews, Springfield, Mass  ■ 5,00
E. Crowell, M.D., Brooklyn, N.Y  50,00
C. M. Burrett, New Haven, Ot  2,00
Geo. Stacy, Montreal, P. Q   2,00
A. Burford, East Liverpool, Ohio    2,00
M. A. Giles    2,00
O. Giles    2,00
A Friend to the Cause  2,00
W. Y„ Philadelphia, Pa .'.  25,00
Joseph Wescott, No. Castine, Me  2,00
Geo. W. Smith, Boston, Mass  20,CO
J. DuBois, Everett, Pa  5,00
Mrs. A. C. Whittemore. New Boston, Ct  3,00
L. K. Joslin, Providence, B. I..,.,  3,00
Jas. T. Walton, Terre Haute, Ind.....  10,00
Chas. P. Perot, Philadelphia, Pa  5,00
A Friend, Spencer, Mass  2,00
Henry Seyberts, Philadelphia, Pa   25,00
H. G. Wyte, Buffalo, N. Y   2,00
Joseph Kinsey  5,00
Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Tucke  3,00
Martin Hiscox, Providence, B. 1  2,00
Henry Bennan, W. Meriden, Conn  2,00
Henry Gildemeister, Bunker Hill, 111  2,00
“ A Liberal,” Greenville, Me  3,00
H. K. Morrill.....   2,00
Jos. P. Hazard, Peacedale, B. 1  5,00
Dr. G. B. Brooklyn, N. Y    3,00
J. N. H* Peacedale, B. 1  25,00
Joseph Beals, Greenfield, Mass   2,00
Jas. Wilson, Bridgeport, Conn  5,00
F. B. Baker, Topeka, Kan  5,00
James Shackleton, Lawrence, Mass  2,00
F. Hinckley, Barnstable, Mass  5,00
Warren S. Barlow, St. Johnsbury, Vt  5,00
Frederick Schroeder, Papineau, 111  2,50
Joseph Schroeder, ditto  5,00
Samue Bobinson, Swansea, Mass ,  2,00
David A. Mundy, Bahway, N. J  2,00
“ A Friend of the Banner ”  50,00
J. W. Bobins, M.D., Uxbridge, Mass  2,00
Mr. and Mrs. J. Boberts, Bush, N.Y.    2,00
J. B. Angel, Bed Bank, N. J.      5,00
Lucy James, Danielsonville, Conn  6,85
Wm. A. Atkins, Provincetown, Mass  5,00
Mrs. Chas, Baldwin, Fayville, Mass  5,00
J. Mayo, Waltham, Mass  2,00
A. M. Gaffield, ditto  2,00
Isaac and D. W. Wright, Harvard, Mass  2,00
Mrs. A. L. Pratt, New Haven, Conn  2,00
Samuel Smart, Willoughby, Ohio  2,00
Joseph Dimmock, Stonington, Conn  2,00
Bobert Kerr Elliott, Live Oak, Fla  ■ 3,00
Jas. Lawrence, ditto   3,00
S. 0. Moses, Mendota, 111    2,00
B. L. Wade, Jefferson, Ohio....    10,00
C. K. Brooklyn, N. Y   2,00
J. F. Hamilton, Berlin, Wis  2,00
E, Man, Litchfield, Mich  5,00
E, Nickerson, Burton Harbour, Mich  2,00
Calven Westover, Oxford, N. Y   10,00
Friends, Charlotte, Mich  2,50
S. G. N. Millerton, N. Y  2,00
E. B. Whiting, New Haven, Conn  5,00
H. W. Ballard, Malone, N. Y  2,00
W. M. C., Philadelphia, Pa  5,00
B. Ellis, Plymouth, Mass   2,00
S. H. Austin, Syracuse, N.Y  2,00
Jas. Thompson, Devonport, la  2,00
Levi P. Benjamin. Friendship, N.Y  2,00
Luther B. Ames, Worcester, Mass  2,00
Ansel Edwards, New Orleans, La    3,00
Thomas B. Watford, Philadelphia, Pa   2,00
,J. L., New Jersey   2,00
Mrs. M. A. E. Green, W. Winfield, N.Y   5,00
Dr. J. S. Loucks, Potsdam, N.Y  2,00
Bobert Butherford, Bochester, N.Y  6,00
From One who Hates Persecution   10,00
J. D. Wheeler, Acton, Mass   2,00
Henry Miller, Sacramento, Cal  10,00
M. A. Britton, Santa Bosa, Cal  2,00
Harvey Lyman, Springfield, Mass  2,00
James S. Draper, Wayland   2,00
Isaac Snow, Boston, Mass ;  5,00
C. N. Lyme, Philadelphia, Pa   2,00
Mrs. Lavelette      5,00
Sundry persons   16,13
L. Elliott, Live Oak, Fla  2,50
Joseph Willoughby, Manchester, N.H  2,00
W. N. Choate, Jackson Mills, Mich    5,00
E. J. Kempton, New Bedford, Mass    2,00
Granville W. Lukens, Mt. Holly, N.J  2,00
Mrs. G. W. Keene, Lynn, Mass  5,00
Charles Chittenden, Boston, Mass  3,00
F. T. Houghton, San Francisco, Cal  2,00
P. A. Cornell, Central Village, Conn  2,'00
Friends, New Britain, Conn  6,50
Friend of Beligious Freedom, Dalton, Pa  2,00
S. Morton, Winslow, N.J   2,00
Lucius Bond, Dalton, N.H  < 2,00
I. L. Sage, Frankfort, Ky   3,50
A. J. Kenney, Pana, 111  2,00
Mary S. Doty and 8. B. Smith, Peru, N.Y. ... 5,00
Spiritualists' Defence Fund continued, dols.
Geo. Watt, Augusta, 111  2,00
Eben Snow, Cambridge, Mass 2,50
H. H. Ostrom, Alton, N.Y   2,00
Mrs. Sarah Compton, Hyde-park, Pa   3,00 . .
A. A. Wheelock, in behalf of “The Progressive
Society of Spiritualists ” of Utica, N.Y  30,00
A Lady Friend, Salem, Mass i.....    5,00
Friend, Medfield, Mass    10,00
J. J. Miller, Millerstown, Mo  2,00
“Heliotrope,” Petaluma, Cal  5,00
W. V. Thompson, Pleasantville, Pa  2,00
F. A. Grove, M.D., Kirksville, Mo.....  2,00
E. Y. Johnson, Warren, B.I    2,0Q
J. Bisby, Hamilton, Ont  5,00
Jonathan Hatch, Easton, Me  2,00
Hugh Jones, Erie, Pa  2,00
Addison Kelley, Kelley’s Island, Ohio  2,00
Mrs. E. B. Huntington, Kelley’s Island, Ohio 2,00
Hiram Frank, W. Bangor, N.Y     2,00
I. S. Carter, San Bernardino, Cal    2,50
A Lady Friend, San Bernardino, Cal  5,00
S. A. Morse, Philadelphia, Pa  2,00
H.Anderman, New Philadelphia, Ohio   2,00
Thos. Gales Forster, N.Y. City    25,00
Walter Byren    2,09
Nathaniel Esty, E. Westmoreland, N.H  2,00
J. A. Barnes, Olympia, W.T  5,00
Mrs. A. A. Fordtram, Brenham, Tex  2,00
Chas. Livingston   :   5,00 •
Hannah Ketcham, Laur, 111    * 2,00
Sylvester Higgins, Bellevue, Mich  2,00
Jno. M. Kennedy, Philadelphia, Pa   2,00
M. Bamberger, Piedmont, W. Va  2,00
Wm. S. Moore, Norwichville, Ont  2,00
Levi Walker, Belleville, 0  2,00
E. Foster, South Bend, Ind |  7,00
Mrs. T. J. Skidmore. Fredonia, N.Y  20,00
Friends, Waverly, N.Y    10,00
M. D. E., Philadelphia, Pa  5,00
J. S. M., „    5,00
C; Wilson, Alameda, Cal     10,00
H. J. Howell, Corsicana, Tex  5,00
Mrs. H. W. H. Brooklyn ...i  5,00
Amos Fales, Carlton, N. B..  2,00
John Bowen, Mobile, Ala.  5,00
The Spirits controlling the Mary Hollis Circle,
St. Louis, Mo  30,00
Jas. Bell, Oxley, Ont  2,65
John D. Powers, Woodstock, Vt  2,00
C. H. Faxon, Charlestown, N. Y  2,00
Sums under two dols. (368 subs.)   335,05
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles. in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found'in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to he a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is ’under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
A medium is usually a person of an impulsive, affectionate,
and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
Mediums are of both sexes.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and
all the members of the circle are strongly bound together by
the affections, and are thoroughly comfortable and happy.
Family circles with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of. a circle symptoms of other
forms of mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appear¬
ance, while by sitting regularly two or three times a week the
manifestations will rapidly develope.
Among the varied phases of the phenomena already ob¬
served by investigators may be noted the following:—Move¬
ment of physical objects, both with and without contact with the
sitters ; direct writing, drawing, and voices; entrahcement;
trance and inspirational utterance ; temporary materialisa¬
tions ; involuntary writing ; healing; visions; impressions;
as well as many phenomena observed in the study of mesmer¬
ism and clairvoyance.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridgh & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works,-Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar-and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
