<r\
O
AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[KEGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
NO. 92.—(Vol. IY.—No. 22.)
LONDON ^ MAY 29, 1874.
Published Weekly; Price Threepence
(Contents.
Spirit Teachings. No. XII   ... ... 253
Mediumship and the Lunacy Laws 255
Mrs. Tappan at Brighton  : ... ... 256
Experiences in Spiritualism. No. IV. By the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York  257
The Farewell Seance of Katie King, the Spirit   ...' ... ... 258
The National Association of Spiritualists: The First “ May-Meeting ”
in London in Connection with Spiritualism    259
How Swedenborgians are Governed   ...   ... 261
Correspondence:—Miss Lottie Fowler’s Mediumship—The Seance at
Mr. Serjeant Cox’s—Materialisations—Misstatements—Miss Cook’s
Mediumship—Mr. Moncure—D. Conway on Spiritualism—A Baby -
Christened by Spirits  262
Paragraph:—American Mediums   261
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Feitz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
«Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
-Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Deau.-
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
■ TUBES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mrs. C. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Comer,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
Council.
Mr. T. Blyton.
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Xredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
A. M. Greene, Hon. Secretary.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month Is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which.strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on Vne first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at.the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-ro'ad, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg: 'his life and
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth < also the singular Origin and Condition of the
SwedenbOrgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—i Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSOROFT, Manager. ;
Aaron franklin, preseryer of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,.
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 100, Suf¬
folk street, Birmingham.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing. •
Estimates forwarded on application.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the tru'e and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Qrosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro tern.
THE ST, JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—TAr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in 'Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its mSin object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or-to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at G-oswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfield-street, Islington.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evenin& Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission frde. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WEIR’S COURT),
Newgate street, newcastle-on-tyne.
President.—Mr. Armstrong. .
Treasurer.—ULv. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of, Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, Ss. per annum, exclusive of postage.
May 29, 1874.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRIT DALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. [ Mr. G. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. O. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, including use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 6s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membei'ship, by donation of JS2 2s. Prospeatua
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
zyeaswrer.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
Offices.—te, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. (Sec.—Mbs. Lowe (Louisa).
•Price 2s. 6<L
LIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND.—
Showing the harmony of things spiritual with things material.
“ The tone of the book is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri~
tualist.
*** A- list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev.- Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
16 PAGES—ONE PENNY.
F. Pitman, 20, Patemoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any
bookseller.
Oftft REWARD.—M ASKELYNE & COOKE-
AN EXPOSE
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (Iota).
London: J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.
Price One Penny.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE.
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E, J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARELAS),
N ewcastle-on-Ty ne.
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
VOLUJVIE FOUR. JHUJVIBEI^ TWEJMTY-TWO.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 29th, 1874.
C{j,e Spmtaltsi
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
.Reduced terms-for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
OoitRESPONDENCE.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions :—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, ll, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Alien, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
Ihe Spiritualist maybe ordered through t}ie following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—(George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 1S4, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. B. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Htll.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
FitzrOy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent,. 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Bichmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams,-228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Eiley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
“piEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives,-Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4,^ Fitzroy-square, W.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XII.
You err in supposing that there has ever been any dis¬
crepancy in our teaching to you. Arguments have been
variously put, and different points have been taken by
different intelligences who have communicated with
you. We do not deny that we have gradually led you
up to the general idea which we have wished to con¬
vey, and we have, in so doing, avoided points of indif¬
ferent opinion which were not essential to our message ;
as well as points on which we know full well that your
previous notions were rooted firm, and would clash with
our knowledge. We have sought rather to develop the
germs of truth which we discovered than to come into
contact with the singularities of opinion which exist.
To this end we have seized upon points of contact, and
have made much of them ; while we have not dwelt on
disputed and unimportant points, and have avoided dis¬
cussing matters that do not lie in our path. Hereafter
fnany points that at present are slurred over, or avoided
will he taken up. But when you have sought informa¬
tion on points whereon we knew your opinion to he er¬
roneous and untenable for long, we have not scrupled to
enlighten you. We can see well when the drift of thought
is carrying you away from old mooring-places which
no longer afford safe anchorage for your spirit; and
seeing this we have preferred to pilot you rather than
to allow you to drop down the stream at the mercy of
wind and current, and at risk of shipwreck. We have
loosened the ropes one hy one, gently and gradually,
and we have charged ourselves with the mission of
landing you in safer and surer harbourage. Had we
tightened the moorings, the old ropes would have broken
and your spirit would have been tossed helpless on a
stormy sea of doubt and difficulty, with no pilot at the
helm, and no port in view, at the mercy of wind and
wave, and with scant prospect of rescue. Do not blame us
that we have chosen to anticipate the inevitable, and to
smooth the rough passage. We could not prevent: we
may and can assist. We would not, if we could, have
added to the chains which would bind your spirit to
the dead past. We will, if you co-operate with us,
enable it to rise superior to the storm, and to emerge
* In the Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of some
remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium, free, to a large extent at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently, the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications - are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many: each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing, peculiar to the communicating intelligence, is always preserved,
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
254
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 29, 1874.
with a new and living faith on a calmer and more open
sea : ready to cross what yet remains between the pro¬
bation of earth and the haven of peace.
In this endeavour we have studiously guarded our¬
selves from inflicting on you any rude shocks. ,We
have not misled you on any point. We have never de¬
ceived you in aught. Scrupulous exactness has
characterised all our statements to you. But we have
preferred to take the ideas which we found in your
mind, and to enlarge and develop them. We have fos¬
tered, directed, instilled newer and truer views, but we
have in no point falsified, distorted, or misled.
Nor is their actually any divergence in the teachings
of those who have spoken to you. Any apparent dis¬
crepancy is referable to difficulties of communication, to
the varying influence of your own mind, to the state
of your bodily health; to the novelty of the work to
some ; and especially to your own circumscribed views.
We cannot teach what you cannot receive. We can
only dimly symbolise truths which one day your un¬
clouded eye will see in their full splendour. We can¬
not speak with clearness when the spirit of our medium
is troubled, when his body is racked with pain, or his
atmosphere vitiated by disease. Nay, even a lowering
atmosphere,'or electric disturbance, or the neighbourhood
of unsympathetic and unfavourable human influences may
colour a communication, or prevent it from being clear
and complete. Hence the various discrepancies which
your minute gaze has detected. They .are small enough
and few enough, and they will all vanish when the
difficulties are removed. Then will you recognise the
superior insight which has guided you in a time of no
ordinary difficulty and peril.
You complain that there is little chance of the accept¬
ance of such views as we have put forward. Of this
you can know very little. The time is far nearer than
you think when the old faith which has worn so
long, and which man has patched so clumsily, will be
replaced by a higher and nobler one—one not antago¬
nistic, but supplementary—and the pure Gospel which
Jesus preached shall find its counterpart again on an
advanced plane of knowledge. For know, good friend,
that no effort which, as this, is the plan of the Supreme,
is entered on untimely, or with disregard of the correla¬
tion between God’s Gospel and man’s wants. What
comes to you from us is coming to others too. This is
but one among many branches of one great plan. It
will go on gradually and spread steadily among the
children of faith who are fitted to receive it. The
Master has so willed it. His time is not yours, nor is
our vision circumscribed as yours. In due time the
knowledge which we come to spread will be known
among men. Meantime, progressive souls are being
educated : precious seed is being sown, and the reaping
and garnering shall come in their course. For that you
and we alike must wait.
If you will now think carefully over what has been
said, you will see that the nature of the case precludes
more than presumptive proof being given of the validity
of our claims. We say again, that God forces blessings
on none. He offers: the responsibility of acceptance
or refusal rests with you. The internal evidence will
be admitted by you and by all to whom we are now*
concerned to address ourselves. None but those who
are hopelessly involved in the meshes of the shallowest
bigotry, who are bound by the fetters of a conventional
theology, and shackled by an iron dogmatism, will
refuse to acknowledge the internal evidence of a Divine
origin in the creed which we put forward. With such
as we have enumerated, the dogmatist, the bigot, the
narrow-minded, the wise in their own conceit, we have
no dealings. Nay, we do not even speak to those who
find in the faith which has become ingrained in their
very souls a sure and sufficient guide. In God’s name,
let them cling to it. Hereafter their time of progress
will come. It is not yet. To you, and to those who
have advanced far enough to think with you, we need
not further prove that we are not of diabolic origin or
intent.
If you will further consider the views which we have
put forward with respect to .inspiration, you will see
that we claim for our teaching that it is just one of
those rungs in the ladder of progressive knowledge of
God, which mankind has been gradually mounting from
the time when man framed for himself a god like him¬
self to the present, when you are slowly learning that
to attribute human infirmities and passions to the
Supreme is not to do Him honour. Our revelation
is in no respect different from that which has preceded,
save that it is a step in advance, even as each develop¬
ment of human knowledge has been. Our knowledge
flows from the same source, and is made known through
similar channels. They are now, as then, human,
fallible, and at times wrong. It must be so, as long as
God reveals Himself through human agencies.
If you will further recollect the stand-point we
have selected, you will see that in place of blind
faith, which accepts traditional teaching—the old merely
because it is old—we appeal to your reason, and in
place of credulity we demand rational, intelligent in¬
vestigation, and acceptance grounded on conviction.
So far from desiring you to accept what we tell you,
simply because we are spirit messengers—the new
merely because it is new—we ask you to weigh in the
scales of reason, to ponder in the light of intellect, to
reject if you be not satisfied, in no case to assent or
to act until conviction has been thoroughly established.
So that not only is the matter of the spirit creed
eminently conformable to right reason, but the grounds
on which we ask you to accept it are those which a
rational and logical mind will be most disposed to
accept. God forbid that we should even seem to hurry
any man into antagonism, real or fancied, with a creed
which has for eighteen hundred years and more been
adorned by the lives of many myriads of earnest and
progressive as well as earnest though mistaken souls.
The fact that it has long endured entitles it to the re¬
verence due to antiquity, though with our extended
view we can see that it also makes due preparation
that some of its provisions, admirably suited as they
were for a less advanced generation, may now fitly be
enlarged and spiritualised. At any rate we would not
disturb its reign with violent revolution. We would
refine and infuse new life ; we would not dethrone and
humble in the dust. As the Saviour told in the accents
of a life of loving and self-sacrificing purity the story of
a nobler faith than that which Sinai had revealed in
accents of thunder, so we take up the Divine story at a
later day, and proclaim for a world’s acceptance a creed
more fitted to its advanced capacities, more suited to its
later wants.
It will reject it /” Well, then, we at least have offered
it, and to those who will surely grasp at it, its blessed
influence shall seem the brighter from the contrast. It
is long frequently between the first promulgation of a
truth and its final acceptance. The seed time must
Mat 29, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
255
precede the crop, and the rain and the frost and the
cheerless ■wintertide may seem to he long drawn out,
hut the sun bursts forth at length, and the crop springs
up, and the glad summer comes with the reaping and
housing of the fruit. The day of preparation may he
long, the night during which the sower waits may he
weary, but the harvest surely comes. You cannot re¬
tard it; you may aid in reaping it; you may even
assist in sowing the seed; but in spite of man’s opposi¬
tion, whether he aids Or not, God’s work will be done.
It is to the individual alone that acceptance or rejection
of the Divine message matters materially. A soul is
advanced or retarded in the life of progress; and the
angels rejoice or mourn over the issue. That is all.
You inquire from us what position we assign to
Jesus the Christ. We are not careful to enter into
curious comparisons between different teachers who in
different ages have been sent from God. The time is
not yet come for that. But this we know, that no
spirit more pure, more godlike, more noble, more
blessing and more blessed, ever descended to find a
home on your earth. None more worthily earned by a
life of self-sacrificing love the adoring reverence and
devotion of mankind. None bestowed more blessings
on humanity; none wrought a greater work for God.
It is not necessary that we should enter into curious
comparisons between God’s great teachers. Bather
would we give to all the meed of praise that is their
due, and hold up the example of self-denial, self-
sacrifice and love to the imitation of a generation which
sadly needs such a pattern. Had men devoted their
energies to the imitation of the simplicity and sincerity,
the loving toil and earnest purpose, the self-sacrifice
and purity of thought and life which elevated and dis¬
tinguished the Christ, they had wrangled less of His
nature, and had wasted fewer words upon useless meta¬
physical sophistries. Those of your theologians who
dwelt in the days of darkness, and who have left to
you an accursed heritage in their idle and foolish specu¬
lations, would have turned their minds into a more use¬
ful channel, and have become a blessing, instead of a
curse, to mankind. Men would not have derogated
from the honour due to the great God alone, but would
have accepted as Jesus intended the simple Gospel that
He preached. But instead of this they have elaborated
an anthropomorphic theology which had led them to
wander further and further from the simplicity of His
teaching; which has turned His name and creed into a
battle ground of sects, and has resulted in a parody on
His teachings—a sight on which His pure spirit looks
with sorrow and pity.
Friend, you must discriminate between God’s truth
and man’s glosses. We do not dishonour the Lord
Jesus—before whose exalted majesty we bow—by re¬
fusing to acquiesce in a fiction which He would disown,
and which man has forced upon His name. No, as¬
suredly, but they who from a strict adherence to the
literal text of Scripture—a text which they have not
understood, and the spirit of which they have never
grasped—have dishonoured the Great Father of Him,
and of all alike, and have impiously, albeit ignorantly
derogated from the honour due to the Supreme alone.
Not we, but they dishonour God! Not we, but they,
though they have the prescription of long usage, though
their words be coloured by extracts from writings
which they have decided to be Divine : and though in
those writings there be found words which pronounce
a curse on any who may disagree with what is stated
there. We do not regard such curses, save with pity.
We do not labour to upset belief when it is a harmless
error, but we can lend no countenance to views that
dishonour God, and retard a soul’s progress. The at¬
tributing to a man of Divine honour to the exclusion
in very many cases of personal honour and love for the
Great Father is a mischievous error which derogates
from the duty of man to his God. The holding of a
narrow, cold, dogmatic creedin all its rigid lifeless literal¬
ness cramps the soul, dwarfs its spirituality, clogs its
progress, and stunts its growth. “ The letter,” says
your Scripture, “ the letter killeth, but the spirit
giveth life.” Hence we denounce such views of God
as are contained in the fable of a material hell: and
we proclaim to you purer and more rational ideas than
are contained in the orthodox notions of Atonement and
vicarious sacrifice. We proclaim to you a spiritualised
religion. We call you from the dead formalism, the
lifeless, loveless literalism of the past, to a religion of
spiritualised truth, to the lovely symbolism of angel
teaching, to the higher planes of spirit, where the ma¬
terial finds no place, and the formal dogmatism of the
past is for ever gone.
We have spoken to you with care, and with a due
sense of the importance of what we say. Dwell on it
with care. Ponder it with single desire for truth, and
seek the Divine aid ministered to all who pray for it.
+ L S. D.
MEDIUMSHIP AND THE LUNACY LAWS.
Last Monday night a meeting of the Lunacy Law Beform
Association was held at Lawson’s Rooms, Gower-street, Lon¬
don, under the presidency of the Eev. J. Page Hopps, of
Glasgow. Considering that it was holiday time, and the
weather bad, there was a fair attendance.
The Chairman said that it was a heroic and unselfish act on
the part of Mrs. Lowe to come forward in the way she had
done, in an attempt to bring about a reform of the Lunacy
Laws. Although he (the Chairman) was a stranger in their
midst, for he resided in Glasgow, he was a Londoner by birth,
by education, and by work ; his interest in the subject was so
great that he had much pleasure in assisting at the proceedings.
His ideas on the subject were in some respects indistinct;
they were not indistinct as regarded the grievance, and that it
was the duty of the public to take action in the matter, but
they were indistinct as to what that action should be. Re¬
cently Mrs. Lowe had addressed an influential meeting in
Glasgow, and had delighted all who heard her. He was not a
Spiritualist, but he had seen many phenomena which he
believed to be real; he did not, however, wish to commit him¬
self to any theory about them, for a true theory could only be
formed safely after a long process of scientific investigation.
The main cause of Mrs. Lowe being treated as a lunatic was
that she believed in Spiritualism, and if the public intended to
incarcerate all Spiritualists, all he could say was they would
have to build very large asylums, and to tax the country to an
enormous extent. Some of the best and wisest people that he
knew were Spiritualists, and it was the duty of the public not
to stand by in a state of inaction when Spiritualists were said
to be insane. He thought that, in addition to the present
safeguards for the benefit of alleged lunatics, there should be a
probationary period of some weeks or months, during which
their friends should have free access to them; such a plan
would do away with much cruelty and injustice.
Mrs. Lowe said that the greater part of the danger arose
from the irresponsibility of the Lunacy Commissioners and
the medical men, whose united powers were so vast. She
then gave the details of the case of Mrs. Festchler, of Man¬
chester, who had been incarcerated as a lunatic, and although
the superintendent of the asylum reported in December, 1871,
that there was little or nothing the matter with her, and that
she had better be allowed to go home and see her children, as
she earnestly desired to do, the obstacles to her getting out
were so great, that she was not liberated until August, 1872.
She stated that she knew several other cases, in which patients
256
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 29, 1874.
were incarcerated in opposition to the law. She said that a
lunacy trade, almost as bad as the slave trade, was going on in
England, since any two medical men by selling false certificates,
could have private individuals shut up in private asylums
away from the public gaze, and that in such cases very large
sums of money were often at stake. She then proceeded to
censure the judgment pronounced upon the case which she
brought against the Lunacy Commissioners in the Court of
Queen’s Bench; she also impugned the motives of the judges,
and asserted that no bought or unbought portion of the Press
had ever been bold enough to print all the things she said
against them.
Mr. Pearce, M.D., said that he knew from personal experi¬
ence that reform in the Lunacy Laws was necessary, and that
many years ago he raised public indignation about a case in
the asylum at Northampton, the result being an inquiry and
the liberation of the alleged lunatic. He knew of a case in
which a doctor required a second medical man to sign the
certificate of insanity, so he drove the patient to the house of
another doctor, and said, “ I have a lunatic here and want you
to sign the certificate.” The other doctor, who had never seen
the alleged lunatic before, poked his head in at the carriage
window, and replied, “ Yes, yes. All right!” (Laughter.)
That was one instance of the way in which medical certificates
might be obtained. Once the Daily Telegraph exposed an
instance in which a man had been locked up as a lunatic on a
false certificate. Alleged lunatics ought to have the privilege
of trial by jury before being incarcerated. He would move a
resolution to the effect that the Lunacy Laws, especially as
regards the irresponsible powers of the Commissioners, re¬
quire amendment.
Dr. Sexton then made an able speech about the possibility
of obtaining false certificates from shady members of the
medical profession, although the great majority in that pro¬
fession were honourable men. He also spoke of the danger
of mediums and Spiritualists being sometimes incarcerated
under the present system.
The Chairman then read the portion of the certificate
setting forth the reasons why Mrs. Lowe was once incarce¬
rated, namely, “ She is suffering from delusions which have
the character of insane delusions, but which Ishe believes to
be communications received from spirits.” Some of the best
and wisest men and women that he knew, were in the same
state that Mrs. Lowe was described to be in that certificate.
The Rev. F. R. Young seconded Dr. Pearce’s resolution, and
said that under the present system no Spiritualist was safe.
Mr. W. Wicks, of St. Pancras, said that he had been locked
UP as a pauper lunatic when there was nothing mentally
the matter with him. He finally proceeded to discourse
about woman’s rights, of which he was a warm advocate, and
he began to explain how he had endeavoured to have women’s
water-closets established all over London, when he was
promptly stopped by the chairman.
Dr. Merry weather said that he had given twenty yearp’ atten- j
tion to the lunacy system, and he knew that it stood in most
urgent need of amendment. In some cases an alleged lunatic
might now ask for a jury trial as to his sanity—namely, when
he had committed some crime, such as braining a warder, or
inflicting some other injury; but even then a single medical
man had to certify whether he was sane enough to ask for a
jury before the privilege was accorded. He had for some time
been trying to free a man whom he believed to be perfectly
sane, but had been unsuccessful, and lost nearly £1,000 in
thus attempting to do his duty to one of his patients. The
present movement for reform should be kept free from all
extraneous and collateral questions, and if the matter were
fairly inquired into a state of things would be revealed at
which the conscience of the whole nation would revolt. He
would support the resolution.
A speaker, whose name did not transpire, argued that the
land laws and the law laws, which brought nearly all the
means of subsistence in the country into the hands of a very
few people, were the cause of a vast amount of insanity,
starvation, and misery, and the cause of the sad scenes con¬
stantly presented in the streets of large cities. He said that
there could be no deep reform of national evils till those laws
were abolished which were made for the purpose of bringing
nearly all the wealth in the country into the hands of a few
people, consequently our legislators were responsible for the
large amount of national suffering.
The resolution was then passed unanimously, and the
meeting broke up with the usual votes of thanks.
There will be another meeting on the same subject, and at
the same place, next Monday evening, at eight o’clock.
MRS. TAPPAN AT BRIGHTON.
Last Sunday a large meeting was held in the Grand Concert
Hall, West-street, Brighton, in the course of which Mrs. Cora
L. V. Tappan delivered an inspirational address. The follow¬
ing was the peroration, which we quote from The Sussex Daily
News, the chief paper published in Brighton:—
Behold a picture ! Removed from your external senses, but
open to the vision of the Spirit, are the stages of spiritual
advancement. All around your earth and its atmosphere are
those souls, may be, that have not the power or knowledge to
rise on wings of aspiration and prayer; and they are attracted
to the low ones of earth. . Above those are your guardian
angels and ministering spirits who watch for ever by your
sides, and strive with premonitions and warnings, with voices
of the Spirit, and in many ways, to reach your senses. Above
those are divine spirits that are not drawn earthward, but
heavenward, but who hold communion still with earth in
revelation and in speaking of prophets and seers;—these in¬
struct those souls that are beneath them ; and tell them the
nature of the higher spheres of light into which they are
entering. Still above these are the great and mighty minds
who rule the destinies of nations, who sit in solemn council
over the affairs of men, who strive to move you by their
thoughts and by their words of wisdom. Still higher above
these and clothed in transcendent loveliness, are those martyrs
and seers, saints and prophets of older times, that have been
crucified for the sake of truth, and that on many an altar and
before many a shrine have received the arrows of persecution
in the world. Still higher above these, amid the glorified
light of myriads of souls—that have risen to their height
through conquest over selfishness and sin—one may behold
the spirit of the Shining One whose meekness and humility
taught upon earth that all mankind shall love one another,
and through that love shall follow in His footsteps. Now
down through the spheres of light and love, down through the
angel messengers that do His bidding, down through the
circles of spirits and friends that are near you, that solemn
Voice speaks to-night, bidding all mankind uplift their hearts
from the earth, follow the Spirit, having faith only in that
which is highest and best. And be sure that those who
follow, and those who seek for truth, shall always find it, and
that these signs and gifts of the Spirit shall surely come to
them that believe.
The audience was then asked to choose the subject for an
inspirational poem, and “ Resurrection ” was the theme given.
After a pause, Mrs. Tappan, stiU in the trance state, said:—
All things must die ;
Behold the flower
Droops, withers, fades away;
And on the ground all crumbling lie,
The blossoms of a day.
The forest tree yields up its green,
The earth is brown and bare,
And winter, with its snowy sheen,
Govereth everywhere
All forms of life, for death has come,
And lo 1 all life apart must roam.
But soon the spring time doth appear,
. The buds awaken into bloom, 1
And from their darkness far and near
Each leaflet bursts its Wintry tomb ;
For lo! the summer sun hath risen,
And o’er the hill and o’er the. plain
Each flower, awakened froin its prison,
Benews its life again.
All things must die.
The nations fade
Beneath the Tyrant’s lawles? power,
The trampling years their wreck have made;
The very beauty and the flower
Of life'is stolen thence, until
There rises from the tomb
Some hand to strengthen and some will
To save the nations from their gloom.
Behold, when Saviours speak the words
Of truth, mien, startled from the throng.
Feel them like sharp and piercing swords;
And Error, wakened by her fears
From the dull sleep of .dreary years,
Grows for the moment bright and strong,
Striking the Saviour with the glaive,
And with the sceptre of its power,
Till he who came the world to save
Lies dead.
Behold then at that hour
The angels come and minister
To Him; sweet peace unto the world
Is breathed by Him, and they who hurled
The shaft of death, perceive anew
The glories hidden from their view.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
.257
Mat 29, . 1874.
He that was dead
Hath risen; the angels rolled away
The stone, and sat within the sepulchre
When on that third and saddened day
The women came to weep and pray.
All ye who sit
Beside the tombs of life,
And weep for loved ones perished,
Know that rife,
And warm, and eloquent they rise,
Up from their tombs with glad surprise.
Some angel sitteth by the door
Of life (called death) for evermore.
.And ye who come to weep and pray
Will find the stone there rolled away
All souls shall rise,
And from the tomb,
And from the ashes of the past,
And from the perished hopes, whose gloom
Along your way their shade have cast.
Behold now, at the door of life,
An angel sits with lightning breath
And flashing eye, whose spirit saith,
“ So here, within this silent room,
Making it radiant with bloom,
The resurrection mom appears,
Through Him who shed for you His tears.”
EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM.
No. IY.
BY THE LATE J. W. EDMONDS, JUDGE OE THE SUPREME
COURT, HEW YORK.,
Sometimes when the party have got into discussion among
themselves,’! have known vehement manifestations made to
stop it, and sometimes all communion ceased.
I have known spirits frequently to correct the minutes which
had been kept of the proceedings of a circle ; sometimes they
would themselves make mistakes in doing so, and on having
them pointed out to them would correct the mistake.
A communication was being spelled out by the alphabet, and
I was writing it down. I wrote, “ No one. Not wo.” My
mistake was not seen by any of the party, but it was corrected
by spelling out ” Number one. Number two.”
Directions have been frequently given as to deportment and
conduct at our meetings, as to put out and bring in a light, to
open and shut windows or doors, to ask questions and to be
silent, to change our positions, &c., precisely the same in all
respects as we who were living and sitting there would talk to
each other.
I have seen a person who knew nothing of music, except a
little that he had learned at a country singing-school, go to a
piano, and play in perfect keeping as to time and concord, the
several parts of an overture to an opera; and Governor Tall-
madge in a recent letter writes
“ My youngest daughter, aged thirteen, plays on the piano
by the instruction of spirits, like an experienced performer.
She knows nothing of notes or music, and never played the
piano before in her life. The first tune she played was
Beethoven’s Grand Waltz, and then several others with which
we were familiar. After that, she played many we had never
heard before, and improvised words suited to the airs, beau¬
tiful, and of the highest tone of religious and moral senti¬
ment.”
I have known Latin, French, and Spanish words spelled out
through the rappings; and I have heard mediums who knew
no language but their own speak in those languages, and in
Italian, German, and Greek, and in other languages unknown
to me, but which were represented to be Arabic, Chinese, and
Indian, and all done with the ease and rapidity of a native.
Once a medium, who was a carpenter of very common
education, was teaching us about self-knowledge. As I was
writing down what he said, I spoke to myself in a low tone,
YvoQi'Stavrov. He paused a moment, said “ TvoQi ’Stavrov?
yes; know thyself.”
And finally—for I must bring this long detail to a close,
though it is only a small part of what I have recorded in five
large volumes of manuscript, besides very many interviews
which I have never recorded, because they were but a repeti¬
tion of what I had already written—finally, I say, after Spend¬
ing two hours privately and alone with an individual, when I
returned home I have had our private conversation detailed to
me with an accuracy which startled me in its demonstration
of the fact, that every word that had been uttered in that
private conversation was known to the intelligence that was
dealing with me.
Now, in all that I have detailed, both as to the reality of the
intercourse and intelligence, though I have mentioned many
things that are known to me alone, as well as many known to
others, I have not mentioned a single thing whose equal or
counterpart has not been witnessed by hundreds and thou¬
sands of intelligent and credible people. I am not therefore
stating anything peculiar to myself, though some things can,
from the nature of the case, have my testimony alone to sup¬
port them. But I am referring to matters which are known
to thousands, which for the last five years have been occurring
in the presence of great numbers in all parts of the country,
and which are yet happening in our midst, and can be seen by
all who will but take the trouble to see and to hear.
But I have not done with this branch of my subject, though
happily I have got to an end of my wearisome detail. There
are other considerations connected with it that ought not to be
overlooked.
It is now about five years since the subject first attracted
public attention. Though we discover now that for the
previous ten or twelve .years there had been more or less of
it in different parts of the country, but it had been kept con¬
cealed, either from fear of ridicule or from ignorance of what
it was. The first public demonstration, however, was about
five years ago, through the family of Mrs. Fox, near Roches¬
ter, in the State of New York. Through them the manifesta¬
tions were by rapping on the floor, or a table, and the intelli¬
gence displayed itself by selecting from the alphabet as it
was called over, letter by letter, until the words were spelled
out.
For awhile this was the chief, if not the only mode of the
manifestation, but since then other modes have been developed.
I shall refer only to such additional ones as I have myself
witnessed, there being, as I understand, several which I have
never seen.
Clairvoyance and psychometry were, indeed, previously
known, bat not, that I am aware, much resorted to as means
of spiritual intercourse, or, rather, not so much as they have
been of late. Now, they are both of them modes frequently
used for that purpose.
Some are mediums for physical manifestations ; by that I
mean the disturbance of the equanimity, if I may so term it,
of material objects, without any intelligence being necessarily
or usually communicated through them, but done apparently
for the purpose of convincing the sceptical of the presence of
some invisible, intangible power; In other words, for the
purpose of addressing to our senses the idea of a physical
communion with a power out of and beyond mere mortal
agency.
Connected with this, in a measure, though with the addition
of an intelligent communion between the mortal and the in¬
visible power, are the mediums for table tippings, now becom¬
ing very common throughout the United States and in many
parts of Europe, and which are doing more than all else to
attract general attention to the matter, and to awaken an
inquiring spirit amongst mankind.
Another class of mediums consists of those who write.
Their hands are affected by a power manifestly beyond their
own control, and not emanating from or governed by their
own will. The numbers of this class are rapidly increasing.
A vast amount of matter has been written by them, which
will yet be given to the world when it shall be prepared to
receive it in a spirit of candid inquiry, and the mass is daily
augmented through the instrumentality of new mediums who
are being developed.
Another species are speaking mediums, some of whom speak
when in the trance state, and some when in their normal con¬
dition. In these cases the invisible intelligence seems to take
possession of the mind of the medium, and compel the utter¬
ance of its ideas, sometimes in defiance of the will of the
mortal through whom it is talking. I have seen one or two
of this class, who seem to hear spoken words, and to perform
their function by simply repeating what they hear. But
generally they utter ideas impressed upon their minds, and
not infrequently have their organs of speech controlled by a
power independent of and at times in opposition to their own
will.
Impressible mediums are still another species. They re¬
ceive impressions in their minds to which they give utterance,
either by writing or speaking, their faculties being entirely
under their own control.
Mr. Enmore Jones, in a letter to last week’s Medium,
made some most uncalled-for and censorious remarks about
Mr. Crookes,
258
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 29,1874.
THE FAREWELL SEANCE OF KATIE KINO,
THE SPIRIT.
From the beginning of Miss Cook’s mediumship, the
spirit Katie King, or Annie Morgan, who produced most
of the physical manifestations, announced that she had
power only to stay with her medium for three years,
when she would take her final departure. Her time
was up on Thursday last week, and before leaving she
gave three farewell seances to her friends. At the first
of these, held on Wednesday, May 13th, the visitors
present were Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S.; Mrs. Mak-
dougall-Gregory, Miss Douglas, Mr. Henry M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mrs. Ross-Church, Mr. and Mrs.
Jas. Mankiewicz, Miss Katherine Poyntz, Mr. and Mrs.
Walter Crookes, Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mrs. A.
Corner, Mr. G. It. Tapp, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
At the second seance, held on Saturday evening, May
16th, the observers were Mr. William Crookes, Miss
Alice Crookes, M. Gustave de Yeh (a friend of Prince
Wittgenstein, and one of the leading Spiritualists in
Paris), M. E. Boulland, LL.D.; Mr. Henry Bielfield,
Mr. Enmore Jones, his sons Rupert and Arthur, his
daughters Alice and Emily, and his mother, Mrs. Jane
Jones; Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Blyton and Miss Florence
M. Blyton, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mrs. A: Corner, Mr. H.
M. Dunphy, and Mr. W. H. Harrison. Mr. and Mrs.
Cook and family were also present at both the seances.
The farewell seance was held on Thursday last week,
and Katie had emphatically stated that she intended to
give it only to the few tried friends now in London, who
for a long time had been fighting her medium’s battles
with the public; and, notwithstanding many solicita¬
tions, she made but one exception, by inviting Mrs.
Florence Marryat Ross-Church. The other spectators
were Mr. William Crookes, Mrs. Corner, Mr. W. H.
Harrison, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mr. and Mrs. Cook and
family, and the servant Mary.
Mr. Crookes, at 7.25, conducted Miss Cook into the
dark room used as a cabinet, where she laid herself
down upon the floor, with her head resting on a pillow;
at 7.28 p.m. Katie first spoke, and at 7.30 p.m. came
outside the curtain in full form. She was dressed in
pure white, with low neck and short sleeves. She had
long hair of a light auburn or golden colour, which hung
in ringlets down her back and each side of her head,
reaching nearly to her waist. She wore a long white
veil, but this was only drawn over her face once or
twice during the seance.
The medium was dressed in a high gown of light blue
merino. During nearly the whole of the seance while
Katie was before us, the curtain was drawn back and
all could clearly see the sleeping medium, who did not
stir from her original position, but lay quite still, her
face being covered with a red shawl to keep light from
it. There was a good light during the entire seance.
Katie talked about her approaching departure, and
accepted a bouquet which Mr. Tapp brought her, also
some bunches of lilies from Mr. Crookes.
All the sitters in the circle clustered closely round her.
Katie asked Mr. Tapp to take the bouquet to pieces, and
lay the flowers out before her on the floor j she then
sat down, Eastern fashion, and asked all to draw round
her, which was done, most of those present sitting on
the floor at her feet. She then divided the flowers into
bunches for each, tying them up with blue ribbon.
She also wrote parting notes to some of her friends,
signed “Annie Owen Morgan,” which she stated was
her real name when in earth life. She wrote a note
for her medium, and selected a fine rosebud for her as
a parting gift.
Katie then took a pair of scissors and cut off a quan¬
tity of her hair, giving everybody present a liberal
portion. She then took the arm of Mr. Crookes and
walked all round the room, shaking hands with each.
She again sat down and distributed some of her hair;
and also cut off and presented several pieces of her robe
and veil. After she had thus cut several great holes in
her dress as she sat between Mr. Crookes and Mr.
Tapp, she was asked if she could mend it as she had
done on other occasions; she then held up the dila¬
pidated portion in a good light, gave it one flap and it
was instantly as perfect as at first. Those near the
door of the cabinet examined and handled it immedia¬
tely, with her permission, and testified there was no
hole, seam, or joint of any kind, where a moment
before had been large holes several inches in diameter.
Then she gave parting instructions to Mr.
Crookes and other friends, as to the course which was
to be taken in the future for the further developments
that are promised to be given through her mediumship.
These instructions were very carefully recorded and
given to Mr. Crookes.
She then appeared tired and said reluctantly that
she must go, as the power was failing, and bade fare¬
well in the most affectionate way; the sitters all wished
her God speed, and thanked her for the wonderful mani¬
festations she had given. Looking once more earnestly
at her friends she let the curtain fall and she was seen
no more. She was heard to wake up the medium, who
tearfully entreated her to stay a little longer, but Katie
said, “ My dear, I can’t. My work is done; God bless
you,” and we heard the sound of her parting kiss.
The medium then came out among us, looking much
exhausted and deeply troubled.
Katie said that she should never be able to speak or
show her face again; that she had had a weary and sad
three years’ life “ working off her sins ” in producing
these physical manifestations, and that she was about
to rise higher in spirit life. At long intervals she might
be able to communicate with her medium by writing,
but at any time her medium might be enabled to see
her clairvoyantly by being mesmerised.
We have received the following letter on the subject
from Mrs. Ross-Church :—
To the Editor of the “ Spiritualist."
Sir,—As the genuineness of Miss Cook’s mediumship has
been so publicly called in question lately, I think it but a just
return for the kindness which enabled me to be present at
three of her last seances to bear witness to what I experienced
there. These seances took place on the 9th, 13th, and 21st of
the present month.
I will not recapitulate what so many have told of the ap¬
pearance of the spirit “ Katie King,” nor of the means taken
to prevent any imposition on the part of her medium. This
has all been repeated again and again, and as often dis¬
believed. But I find Serjeant Cox, in his late letter on the
subject of Miss Showers’ mediumship, saying that could such
an end be attained as a simultaneous sight of the apparitidn
outside the curtain and the medium within, “ the most
wonderful fact the world has ever witnessed would be estab¬
lished beyond controversy.” Perhaps Serjeant Cox would
consider a sight of both medium and spirit in the same room
and at the same time as convincing a proof of stem truth. I
have seen that sight.
On the evening of the 9th of May, Katie King led me, at my own
request, into the room with her beyond the curtain, which was
not so dark but that I could distinguish surrounding objects, and
then made me kneel down by Miss Cook’s prostrate form, and
feel' her hands and face and head of curls, whilst she (the
spirit) held my other hand in her’s, and leaned against my
THE SPIRITUALIST.
259
May 29, 1874.
shoulder, with one arm round my neck. I have not the
slightest doubt that upon that occasion there were present
with me two living, breathing intelligences, perfectly distinct
from each other, so far at least as their bodies were concerned.
If my senses deceived me; if I was misled by imagination or
mesmeric influence into believing that I touched and felt two
bodies, instead of one; if “ Katie King,” who grasped, and
embraced, and spoke to me, is a projection of thought only—
a will-power—an instance of unknown force—then it will be
no longer possible to know “ Who’s who in 1874,” and we
shall hesitate to turn up the gas incautiously lest half our
friends should be but projections of thought, and melt away
beneath its glare.
Whatever Katie King was on the evening of the 9th of
May, she was not Miss Cook'. To that fact I am ready to take
my most solemn oath. She repeated the same experiment
with me on the 13th, and on that occasion we had the benefit
of mutual sight also, as the whole company were invited to
crowd round the door whilst the curtain was withdrawn and
the gas turned up to the full, in order that we might see the
medium, in her blue dress and scarlet shawl, lying in a trance
on the floor, whilst the white-robed spirit stood beside her.
On the 21st, however, the occasion of Katie’s last appear¬
ance amongst us, she was good enough to give me what I
consider a still more infallible proof (if one could be needed)
of the distinction of her ideality from that of her medium.
When she summoned me in my turn to say a few words to
her behind the curtain I again saw and touched the warm
breathing body of Florence Cook lying on the floor, and
then stood upright by the side of Katie, who desired me to
place my hands inside the loose single garment which she
wore and feel her nude body. I did so thoroughly, I felt
her heart beating rapidly beneath my hand; and passed my
fingers through her long hair to satisfy myself that it grew
from her head, and can testify that if she be “of psychic
force,” psychic force is very like a woman.
Katie was very busy that evening. To each of her friends
assembled to say good-bye she gave a bouquet of flowers tied
up with ribbon, a piece of her dress and veil, and a lock of
her hair, and a note which she wrote with her pencil before us.
Mine was as follows:—“ From Annie Owen de Morgan (alias
Katie King) to her friend Florence Marryat Eoss-Church,
with love. Pensez a moi. May 21st, 1874.”* I must not
forget to relate what appeared to me one of the most convinc¬
ing proofs of Katie’s more than natural power, namely that
when she had cut, before our eyes, twelve or fifteen different
pieces of cloth from the front of her white tunic as souvenirs
for her friends, there was not a hole to be seen in it, examine
it which way you would. It was the same with her veil, and
I have seen her do the same thing several times.
I think if in the face of all this testimony that has been
brought before them, the faithless and unbelieving still credit
Miss Cook with the superhuman agility required to leap from
the spirit’s dress into her own like a flash of lightning, they
will hardly suppose her capable of re-weaving the material of
her clothing in the same space of time. If they can believe
that, they will not find the spiritualistic doctrine ‘So hard a
nut to crack afterwards. But I did not take up my pen
to argue this point, but simply to relate what has occurred to
myself. I could fill pages with an account of these three
seances, but doubtless you will receive several letters on the
subject, and I shall not trespass longer on your space, par¬
ticularly as I have only written this as a testimony to my
complete faith in Miss Cook’s mediumship, and my pleasure
at having been permitted to judge of it myself.—I am, dear
sir, yours faithfully, Florence Marryat Eoss-Church.
The price of The Spiritualist will probably be reduced to
twopence, in three weeks from this date.
The Earl of Caithness has invented a machine for wash¬
ing railway carriages; it is driven by steam, and a working
model has been fitted up in the locomotive department, Great
Northern Bail way, King’s-cross.
Me. Gerald Massey left New York in the Java on the
16th May, and will probably have reached England before
these lines meet the eyes of our readers. After paying all
expenses he has realised £600 by his lecturing tour in America.
He spoke chiefly on the subject of Spiritualism.
* The lock of hair is of a light auburn colour, and coarse, though beautiful
in the mass. A lock of the medium’s, which I kept with it, is silky, nearly
black, and very fine.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
THE EIEST MAY-MEETING- ” IN LONDON IN CONNECTION
WITH spiritualism:.
On Thursday afternoon last week, a public meeting, under
the auspices of the British National Association of Spiri¬
tualists, was held at the Quebec Institute, Lower Seymour-
street, Portman-square, London, to which meeting objectors
to Spiritualism had been specially invited by advertisement.
The hall and galleries were completely filled by a large and
intelligent body of listeners, many of whom had to stand
throughout the proceedings, all the seats being occupied.
Dr. Sexton, who occupied the chair, read a letter from Mr.
William Crookes, F.E.S., expressing regret at his inability to
be present, because of his attendance that day at the last
seance of “ Annie Morgan ” at Miss Cook’s. He also read a
letter from Mr. A. E. Wallace, regretting that he was pre¬
vented from attending by examination business. He further
read a third of a similar nature from Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law.
The Chairman then said that the meeting was not convened
for the advocacy of Spiritualism, but to meet objections which
might be urged by the public, and to reply to questions. It
was customary for the leading religious bodies in Great
Britain, to hold meetings in London in the month of May,
and the present was the first “ May Meeting ” ever held by
Spiritualists, therefore it was the inauguration of a new time
in connection with the movement. The circumstance of such
a large audience being present, proved what an increasing
interest in the subject was felt by the public. The movement
began only twenty-five years ago in America, yet already its
waters were rushing all over the civilised globe, converting
thousands, and interesting many besides who believed in its
facts but not in the spiritual theory explaining them. The
want of Spiritualism had long been felt. Spiritualism might
be compared to a pyramid with its base upon earth and its
apex in heaven ; its base consisted of the facts of the physical
manifestations, which were not very important from one point
of view, still they formed the foundation upon which the rest
of the superstructure was raised. These elementary physical
facts demanded the same attention as those connected with
any other branch of science; they did not belong to religion
at all, but were merely substantial matters of fact. The facts
had been disputed, it was true, but only by those who knew
nothing whatever about them; in like manner had all the new
facts of science been disputed, Galileo’s discovery of the
earth’s rotation not excepted. One objection was, that if the
facts were true, many would have to give up opinions which
they had held from infancy; this was a hard thing to do, but
the more important point to be decided was, “ Is the thing
true ?” not “ What are its consequences ?” (Applause.)
Above the physical manifestations at the base of the pyramid,
rose a noble system of moral and religious philosophy, well
deserving the attention of the public.
Mr. Enmore Jones narrated how, many years ago, the death
of near and dear relatives led him to inquire into Spiritualism,
the truth of which was soon ascertained by him ; he then felt
it his duty to assist in promulgating the truth, the result being
that people used to say he was a little touched in the head.
The opposition at that time was very great; indeed, he did not
see anybody in that hall who had fought for the truth by his
side in those early days. He had many personal friends in
the religious world, who began to look upon him as the Devil’s
vicegerent (Laughter) when he turned Spiritualist, but he was
bound to say that he knew of nothing in Spiritualism which
affected in the slightest degree New Testament Christianity.
(Applause.) It was a most important thing to the world to be
able to prove that the human mind could live apart from the
physical body, and ample demonstration of the truth of this
fact was given by Spiritualism. [Mr. Jones closed by making
some unscientific remarks about light, electricity, and something
he called “ magnetine,” which we were unable to comprehend.]
The Chairman said that any of the listeners might put
questions.
Q.—He said that magnetism and electricity have colour.
What colour |
Mr. Jones.—The colour of truth.
Q.—What is the colour of truth ?
Mr. Jones.—I said “ Suppose them to have colour,” merely
to illustrate an idea.
The Chairman.—I should like questions which tended to
elicit information.
Q.—Is not electricity most likely a mode of motion, and not a
substance as stated by Mr. Jones ?
260
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 29, 1874.
Mr. Jones.—It is something which produces results.
The Chairman remarked that the tendency of modem
research was to prove electricity to be a force, therefore an
entity. He considered it rather out of place to question
Mr. Jones about his illustrations, and not about the subject
under their notice.
Q.—How is it that Spiritualism leads some away from
Christianity, whilst you say it has led you to become wholly a
Christian ?
Mr. Jones.—I began to disbelieve that there was a future
state, consequently was giving up my Christianity. When I
was satisfied that the phenomena were true, and that a de¬
parted relative returned and proved to me that he still lived,
all my disbelief about a future life ceased, and since then I
have been anxious to make Spiritualism known to everybody.
The Chairman invited an objector to speak.
Dr. Coleman said:—We have assembled here to-day to
learn truth, and I believe the Spiritualists present to be
guided by the best of motives, and claim the like for myself.
(Applause.) We are now in the year 1874, and how comes it
that this great truth was never revealed till twenty-five years
ago ? Men are the same now as ever, and if the phenomena
are true, they must have been true in times past. Why did
not God give us these revelations before ? I believe Spiri¬
tualism to be opposed, not only to Christianity, but to all
natural religion. I will not insult this meeting by proving
that it is opposed to Christianity, for if Spiritualism were of
such importance, and Jesus did not teach it to us, He could not
have been what we believe Him to .have been. I think that all
religions have an element of truth, but that Christianity is
the truth. My opinion of Spiritualism is that it is a system of
hysteria—(Laughter, cheers, andfgeneral confusion)—and that
it is a system which will crumble before the light of truth.
(Applause.)
The Chairman asked—Was Spiritualism new, therefore not
true? Were not electricity, telegraphy, steam-engines, and
gas, new, in one sense, and were they less true on that
account ? (Applause.) It was, moreover, not accurate to say
that Spiritualism was new, for it was as old as humanity;
there was not a page of history in the world where Spiritualism
did not show itself; although its modern form might be new,
every kind of spiritual communion had always been, more or
less, known everywhere. There were many, including himself,
who had been brought from atheism fo Christianity by Spiri¬
tualism, and the leading principles of Spiritualism had indeed
been taught by Jesus Christ. Many of the converts to Spiri¬
tualism were hard-headed, materialistic men, not likely to be
subject to hysteria.
Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan passed into the trance state, and
said that they had assembled that day to discuss Spiritualism,
which either meant something or nothing; it either related to
that which was the highest portion of man’s nature, or it was
utterly and absolutely a fallacy. But the facts of Spiritualism
were actually in existence; they had been in the world for all
time, but in their modem form for twenty-five years only;
they proved that man had a spiritual nature, and was im¬
mortal. If they were to remove all the evidence of spiritual
instruction from the Bible and the New Testament, they
would do away altogether with both those books, and similar
facts to those recorded therein had been. witnessed in these
days. The testimony of one man who had seen a fact was
worth more than the testimony of two hundred who had seen
nothing. Spiritualism differed from every other religion in
consequence of its being based upon facts of science, which
men could examine and test for themselves; it claimed to be
a philosophy which opened up for examination the realms of
man’s spiritual nature, and no longer debarred that realm
from the criticism of reason. Spiritualism, in short, said—
“You must not believe until you have evidence. He who
believes without proof is a zealot.” Spiritualism was that
link between man’s spiritual and physical nature for which
science had been so long searching. Men had been told in
ancient days that signs should follow those who believed.
Where were the signs to-day ? If these gifts had been crushed
out of the Church, they might naturally be expected to spring
forth in some other direction, and if they were not cultivated
they would be lost, just as the arm or the mind would become
enfeebled if the cultivation of their powers were neglected.
At the present time the Church was unable to answer the
questions put to it by science and by materialism, but when
the man ef science was brought face to face with facts it was
a very different matter, and although he might attempt to
foist the facts of Spiritualism upon some new force, there was
an intelligence connected with the facts which claimed that it
did not come from any embodied human being; it must there¬
fore be a disembodied intelligence. It had been said that
Spiritualism led men away from Christianity. Was the world
so full of Christians that day? It would be difficult to
determine in these days the exact meaning of the word
«Christian,” for when there are so many theological de¬
nominations who differ among themselves, it was not easy to
ascertain the meaning of the word. Every proof of revelation
at the present time tended to prove the reality of revelation
in the days of old, also to prove that revelation was no miracle,
but was in accordance with natural law. That which was true
and could be demonstrated, interested mankind more than any
theory. (Applause.) Was it true that there was a method of
investigating the nature of the spiritual world ? Was it true
that dwellers in the next world could hold communion with
mortals? Spiritualism claimed to prove that these things
were true. The physical manifestations, the writings, the
rappings, and the moving of solid objects were not finalities,
they were only the alphabet in spiritual language; they might
appear to be grotesque, but material minds required material
proofs ; the phenomena which appealed to the senses were the
only proofs it was possible to bring to influence the scientific
mind ; if they disapproved of the methods, let them so elevate
their own minds as to be able to appreciate something better
—(Applause)—and to receive spiritual things. Besides, they
did not object to the pen, or the pencil, or the undignified
quill of the goose, used by their friends in the body for the
purpose of writing letters; they did not object to the pipes
and stops of the organ used by the musician, nor to the un¬
romantic substance used in the construction of a part of the
violin, why then should they object to the methods used by
spirits in communicating ? The message, and not the method
of its transmission, was the thing of importance. It was a
message telling of a life beyond death, and of a hereafter.
(Applause.) Let that once be proved to the scientific world
and materialism would not have a stone to rest upon. (Ap¬
plause.) Were the gifts of healing the sick and of prophecy
realities? If so, men ought to know it. If, on the other
hand, the millions of Spiritualists were all deluded beings, the
rest of the world ought to come forward and save them from
their errors. (Applause.)
The Chairman invited questions from the listeners.
Did you say that Spiritualism had nothing to do with re¬
ligion ? The chairman said that Jesus Christ taught Spiri¬
tualism, but I deny that He did.
Mrs. Tappan.—I said that Spiritualism had no connection
with any existing form of theology, but it is a religious ques¬
tion in that it relates to man’s spiritual nature.
Do mediums ever get spiritual manifestations without first
seeking for them ?
Mrs. Tappan.—The first spiritual manifestations in their
modern form, were not sought tor, but came spontaneously,
and persons often receive them without seeking for them.
Still, it is better to meet truth half-way, although with refer¬
ence to Spiritualism it is very rarely done.
Can you point out any instance where Spiritualism has been
of the slightest use in the world ?
Mrs. Tappan.—That depends upon what you mean by use.
Perhaps it has not projected a railway or discovered a mine,
though the latter is questionable. Your chairman has said it
led him from atheism to believe in the immortality of the
soul; has it done good in that case? (Applause.) Every
Spiritualist not only believes but knows that there is a future
state, and such knowledge is of the highest practical use.
Has the medium received anything from the spiritual world
interesting to this meeting ?
Mrs. Tappan.—Nothing but what you have received.
At one of your meetings a week ago, it was said that the spirit
of Theodore Parker gave an address through your lips. What
proof is there that Theodore Parker did give that address, and
how are we to" know that the eloquent remarks which we have
heard to-day do not come from the same source ?
Mrs. Tappan.—The evidence was entirely contained in the
address itself, and it is for the listeners to say whether the
ideas and words were such as Theodore Parker was in the
habit of using. The speaker is inspired to-day.
Are we going to have any manifestations ?
The Chairman.—The only manifestation will be that I
intend to keep to the programme before me.
A gentleman in the gallery said:—Has the immortality of
the soul ever been doubted by any reasonable being? (Yes,
yes.) It was taught in the Platonic philosophy and in the
New Testament, and is generally believed everywhere. I have
heard nothing here to-day which I might not have found in
Mat 29, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
261
the Bible, and what is there in Spiritualism which will
etherialise our natures more than the teachings in the holy
book?
Mrs. Tappan.—One would think that the gentleman did not
live in the nineteenth century, in which it is the boast of
materialists that they not only do not believe in, but even do
not aspire to a future state of existence. It is true that the
doctrines of Spiritualism have been taught in the past, but
the leading passion of the nineteenth century is to demand
proof of these things. Many have no practical belief in
Christianity or in the Platonic philosophy, therefore the proofs
afforded by Spiritualism are needed. The fact that regular
communication has been established between the two worlds
in these days is certainly new; also the fact that angel
visitors can communicate with those left behind, and may be'
received again by the fireside.
Mr. J. J. Morse then passed into the trance state, and said
that one of the speakers had stated that all he had heard in
that hall he had read before in the New Testament, but there
were revelations in Spiritualism beyond those which had been
given in ancient times ; for instance, Spiritualism proved that
a spirit occupies just that position in the next world which
his motives fit him to take, virtue being thus its own reward,
and vice its own punishment. Above the physical facts of
Spiritualism were philosophical and religious teachings
adapted to the requirements of the age, for the prevailing
thought of the present day professes to be mightily exact, and
many people believe only that which can be demonstrated.
Yet in matters of religion people often took upon trust that
which they would scorn to accept in the same way in con¬
nection with physical science; indeed, one of England’s
leading philosophers had admitted that if he applied the same
processes to religion which he did to physical science, he
would soon have no religion whatever. Therefore a scientific
method of opposing scientific theories was the safest way of
overthrowing them, and the physical facts of Spiritualism
supplied the materials for redeeming a materialistic age in a
materialistic manner. Those who produced the manifestations
claimed to be the spirits of departed human beings, and out of
the facts they presented arose a philosophy and a religion
adapted to the time and to the people.
The Chairman invited questions from the audience. •
What proof can you give us that it is a spirit and not Mr.
Morse who has just addressed us ?
Mr. Morse, still entranced—Absolute proof cannot be given
at one interview. It is a common thing in Spiritualism for
persons altogether uneducated, like your speaker, to deliver
addresses altogether beyond their capacity in their normal state.
How was it that the spirits answered some remarTcs made
before the medium was entranced ?
Mr. Morse—Because we can read what is in the medium’s
mind. (Applause.)
Do spirits speak, and how ?
Mr. Morse—Many sensitives or mediums are almost con¬
tinually [aware of the presence of their spirit friends; they
sometimes can read each other’s thoughts, and sometimes hear
words uttered by spirits.
If ourfuture depends only upon our own virtues, does not
that destroy the doctrine of the Atonement?
Mr. Morse.—As regards the individual it substantiates it,
because he must repent of what he has done wrong before he
can enter a state of happiness.
Must that repentance take place in this world or the next ?
The Chairman.—That is the theological question, and I
rule that it be not answered. (Uproar.)
We came here for truth. Let the question he answered.
(Great confusion.) It is a question strictly applicable to the
remarks made by the speaker. (Hear, hear.)
The Chairman remarked that it introduced theological
matters foreign to the object of the meeting.
Mr. Thomas Shorter said that Spiritualism ran like a golden
thread through all religions, and was more or less interwoven
with the history of all the countries on the face of the earth.
As regarded its modern phase, he, like Mr. Enmore Jones, re¬
membered the time when all the Spiritualists in this country
might be counted on the fingers, but now they were numerous
throughout England, and spirit circles and organised societies
were to be found in all the larger towns. Spiritualism had a
tendency to spread most among the educated classes. The
Press of late had taken the matter up. The Times opened its
columns for a week to the discussion of the subject; it also
sent one of its commissioners to observe the facts, and he
testified to their reality. Other newspapers had followed the
example thus set, and so had the magazines,- London Society
had recently published an excellent article on the subject
written by Mr. Dunphy, and the last number of the
Fortnightly Review contained another, written by Mr. A. R.
Wallace. Spiritualism was a subject which well deserved
investigation at the hands of the public.
Is there any recognised text book ?
The Chairman.—No, no text book but the facts which may
be obtained and observed at home with no Spiritualist or paid
medium present. Spiritualism has no dogmas.
The meeting then broke up.
HOW SWEDENBOKGIANS ARE GOVERNED.
Swedenboeg was a clairvoyant and clairaudiant medium,
and, as the scientific study of Spiritualism progresses, the
nature of his mediumship and the sources of unconscious
error in portions of his very valuable revelations, will be more
and more understood. Hence not a few Swedenborgians are,
year by year, becoming Spiritualists.
In order to give Swedenborgians and Spiritualists a fair
opportunity of understanding each other’s views, we offered to
publish an advertisement about the Intellectual Repository,
the chief periodical belonging to the Swedenborgians, if in
return that journal would publish one about the Spiritualist.
This offer was declined by Mr. Spiers, the publisher, 36,
Bloomsbury-street, London, W.C.
The following advertisement was then presented to him
for publication in the Intellectual Repository, and payment
tendered:—
THE SPIRITUALIST NEWSPAPER (establislied in 1869) contains all
the news of Spiritualism, and articles by writers eminent in the ranks of
literature, science, art, law, and the peerage. The teachings of Swedenborg
are frequently reviewed in its pages, and several Swedenborgians are
among the contributors to its columns. Price Threepence. Published
weekly, by E. W. Allen, 11, Aye Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard,
London, E.O.
Mr. Spiers, who is a very nice man, civilly said that he could not
take payment for it until he had consultedthe managers of the
Intellectual Repository, for he doubted whether they would
print the advertisement at all. After about a week’s delay he
returned it with the following statement:—“ The advertise¬
ment within is respectfully declined.—J. Spiers.”
Hence it appears that the unfortunate Swedenborgians are
governed by authorities who are afraid of free discussion, and
who take care that their vassals shall not have an opportunity
of receiving light upon subjects objectionable to their rulers.
In secular journals editorial supervision of advertisements
not in themselves of bad character, is a thing unheard
of, and the present case helps to prove the commonly
expressed opinion that it is far better in life to have
to deal with ordinary men of business than with the prophets,
priests, or deacons of any narrow-minded theological sect.
No London daily paper would be so mean as to refuse to print
an advertisement about another journal; such conduct is
exhibited occasionally by small peddling prints, conducted in
trade or other private interests, but is unknown amongst high-
class journals.
One of the best of Swedenborgian writers, Mr. William
White, author of The Life of Swedenborg, often contributes
articles to The Spiritualist, and his utterances would do his
New Church brethren much good, if their rulers would allow
them to read the same.
Spiritualists all over the country are requested to let the
members of Swedenborgian congregations know, how informa¬
tion of interest to them is purposely stopped by those they
have placed in authority over themselves.
The various Spiritual periodicals in England, America, Aus¬
tralia, and on the Continent, are requested to quote this brief
notice of Swedenborgian intolerance, for the information of
the rank and file of that sect.
American Mediums. — There are several American
mediums of the name of Fay. One of them is Mr. William
Fay, a respectable man, who accompanied the Davenports to
England. Another is Mr. Melville Fay, respecting whom we
have received much information, who once travelled in
America and pretended to be Mr. William Fay, and to expose
what he alleged to be the tricks of the Davenports. Some
years ago Mr. Burns, in Human Nature, denounced Mr. Mel¬
ville Fay, when he then visited England, in very strong
language, and told, among other delinquencies, how a “ spirit
hand ” which he produced at Birmingham proved to be a
stuffed glove. There may be several other Mr, Fays in
America.
262
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 29, 1874.
OTomspcintience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
. MISS LOTTIE FOWLER’S MEDIEMSHIP.
Sir,—On the 9th inst., I paid a visit to Miss Lottie Fowler,
and received a very remarkable “ test ” communication, the
particulars of which I send you. Towards the conclusion of
the seance, Miss Fowler’s countenance assumed an expression
of anxiety and physical pain, and she proceeded in an agitated
tone to tell me that something was going to happen in my
family. She saw some one nearly connected with me in great
pain, doubled up with cramp in the stomach, and in much
danger. She minutely described the supposed sensations of
the sufferer, which she ascribed to a constriction or twist of
the intestines. She added that the danger was great, but not
necessarily fatal.
. She concluded by assuring me that I should find the pre¬
diction verified, and that it had been told to me as a test.
I took notes at the time of all that she said.
The following evening, the 10th inst., I received a telegram
from Edinburgh, informing me that a near and dear relative of
mine had been seized with an attack identical with that which
on the previous day had been so minutely described to me.
It would be difficult to obtain a more satisfactory test than
the above. The subject matter was certainly unknown to me,
and must have been equally so to Miss Fowler.
At a subsequent seance she described the appearance, man¬
ner, and peculiarities of a friend of mine who was killed in the
Franco-German war, with an accuracy which enabled me to
identify him distinctly. She related the circumstances of his
death, and concluded by mentioning his nick-name, which was
a very peculiar one. Martin E. Smith.
Heathlands, Wimbledon Common.
THE SEAHCE AT MR. SERJEANT COX’S.
Sir,—The statement of Mr. Serjeant Cox, in his last letter
to the Medium, that “ Miss Showers had seen Miss Cook’s
Katie, and felt a natural desire to be able to produce the like
effects,” is utterly untrue, inasmuch as Miss Showers has
never in her life attended more than one of Miss Cook’s
seances, and that seance took place either during the last week
in March, or the first in April. Miss Cook saw “ Florence ”
some time before Miss Showers saw “ Katie,” for she was pre¬
sent, and testified, before Dr. Eichardson and his sister, to
the triple appearance, at the same moment, of Miss Showers,
“ Florence,” and “ Peter.” Dr. Eichardson has published
this. At the time that spiritual manifestations were daily in¬
creasing in force and magnitude in this house, Miss Showers
had no knowledge even of Miss Cook’s’existence, and we were
some months in their immediate neighbourhood before we had
the pleasure of an introduction to Mrs. and Mr. Cook.
$ The somnambules whose inimitable ghost acting has fur¬
nished Mr. Cox so much gratification and interest, may have
been in the habit of personating spirits by holding white sub¬
stances under their chins, but none of those who have seen
Florence will recognise her head-dress by this description.
Probably it is thus that Mr. Cox would act a ghost if he fell
into the requisite somnambulic state. Mr. Crookes was most
interested in the tests with Miss Showers, and expressed him¬
self most anxious to continue them, but we could not give him
more than two sittings. He has since requested, more than
once, that we will allow him an opportunity for investigation
on our return to London. This disposes, therefore, of the
further inaccurate statement in Mr. Cox’s letter that Mr.
Crookes “ told him the tests had failed.” Mr. Henry M.
Dunphy voluntarily, and with the seriousness becoming so
important an announcement, testified to having witnessed the
inanimate form of my daughter in the chair while Florence
stood by his side, and spoke to him. Mr. Cox, with astonish¬
ing effrontery, proceeds to tell the readers of the Medium
what “ Mr. Dunphy saw,” viz., a “ white handkerchief
and a dress,” Mr. Cox being at the time miles away. Is
it worth my while to contradict a person who tries to
prove his case by beating |down all witnesses, and coming
forward with assertions the falsehood of which can be dis¬
proved in a moment ? Is there any person whose reasoning
powers are so small that he fails to discern Mr. Cox’s object,
which, indeed, he does not even attempt to disguise in his
concluding sentences, viz., to prove Miss Showers a somnam-
bule nolens volens, and thus substantiate his own theory ? Is
it necessary for me to recapitulate after this that the
cabinet was constructed by curtains held out by a rope,
and was large enough to accommodate comfortably four
or five people lying on the floor without allowing their
forms to be perceptible from the aperture, particularly
in the dim light that is allowed at the commencement of
seances ? Is it necessary for me to point out the discrepancy
between the statement in his last letter to the Medium, that
“ Mrs. Showers has correctly reported the scene that followed,”
with that in the first, wherein he asserts that there was no
inconvenience to the medium, and exhorts other investigators
to do the same thing as his daughter ? Is there any man with
a sense of humour so depraved as to see “ a joke” in the
picture that I have drawn, and Mr. Cox has admitted to be
correct, of a lady weeping over her suffering child ?—that lady
not three hours his guest ?
I literally feel it a degradation to have to answer Mr. Cox,
whose disingenuous manner of opening this attack on a truth¬
ful and gifted medium, together with his contradictory and
inaccurate statements in the newspaper, furnish the best
answer to the question he so persistently asks—” What am I ?”
Hazel Down, Teignmouth. Frederika Showers.
MATERIALISATIONS.
Sir,—In the general interests of Spiritualism may I ask
you to find place for the following:—
“ Three sitters are required (ladies or gentlemen) to
strengthen and complete a circle in the West-Central dis¬
trict, where manifestations of a high order (including ma¬
terialisations) are promised by the guiding spirits. The circle
is visited by the spirits of men of great distinction when in
earth life,* while the material manifestations are under the
management of “ Peter”—the spirit whose manipulations have
been so successful through the mediumship of Miss Cook and
Miss Showers.
“ Applicants must be of refined minds, harmonious natures,
and in good health, not old or elderly, and must undertake
regular and continuous attendance at least once a week. A
small weekly contribution towards expenses will have to be
made.
“ Application in ’the first instance, stating age, health, tem¬
perament (if known), acquaintance with Spiritualism, and
any other information appropriate, to be made to A. S.”
“ The Mansion, Leatherhead.”
—
MISSTATEMENTS.
Sir,—In a letter in last week’s Medium, Serjeant Cox
slightly contradicts himself. In the second paragraph he
speaks of Miss Showers as “ acting spirit... in the uncon¬
sciousness of trance,” and declares that he has “ always stated
his own conviction to be that it was not a deliberate impos¬
ture, but somnambulism.” There are other passages to the
same effect in the course of the letter. Yet, near the end of
the sixth paragraph, he says, in speaking of Miss Showers’
conduct when, after the outrage, she rushed at Mrs. Edwards
—“forgetting in her fury that she had been unconscious, and
therefore could not, or ought not to have known that my
daughter had done anything.” “ Forgetting that she ought
not to have known!” If these words mean anything, they
mean, not only that—according to Serjeant Cox—Miss Showers
was not then unconscious, but that she never had been so.
Murder will out. Serjeant Cox, with all his legal astuteness,
has betrayed himself. Serjeant Cox defends Mrs. Edwards on
the plea that she was ignorant of the conditions. Eeally, he
credits us with an amount of credulity impossible even in
Spiritualists. Can it be believed that in all the preparations
for this eagerly sought for seance he had forgotten to mention
to Mrs. Edwards the conditions required ? And how about the
gallant and honourable gentleman on the watch outside the
window ? Is it also by a mere lapse of memory that Serjeant
Cox omits all mention of him in this letter? Was he also
ignorant of the conditions? and Serjeant Cox ignorant of the
fact that he was so ?
Moreover, Serjeant Cox and Mrs. Showers are distinctly
at issue as to several facts. It is generally an ex¬
tremely delicate matter |to decide between two contradictory
statements, especially when the one set proceeds from a lady,
and the other from a lawyer; but there cannot be much doubt
in any candid and logical mind in the present case. There is
no conceivable motive for falsehood on the part of Mrs.
Showers, whereas Serjeant Cox has committed himself, in
* It would be well if the utterances of spirits were always worthy of the
great names which some of them gire.—Ed.
May 29, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
263
print, to a theory which Mrs. Showers’s facts rather incon¬
veniently interfere with. True, Mrs. Showers has also com¬
mitted herself in print, but unless some motive can be shown
for falsehood on her part in former instances, there is no
reason for suspecting her of falsehood in her last statement,
whereas Serjeant Cox’s original theory, or rather hypothesis,
required that facts should be found, or made, to establish it,
I flatter myself that I have also shown above that his letters
contain internal evidence of bad faith.
I have to call attention to a misstatement in another
quarter, and on a different subject.
An advertisement has been issued of a “ Memorial Edition
of Judge Edmonds’ Letters,” in which it is stated that Judge
Edmonds remarked, in a letter to the advertiser, “ in allusion
to a testimonial at that time being got up for him by a few
friends in London, ‘ Your publishing that work would be the
most acceptable memorial that could be devised.’ ” Now, sir,
it is undoubtedly true that the testimonial referred to
(originated by an old worker in the cause, who has justly
earned a somewhat higher name than the advertiser, and
whom the latter therefore hates with that cordiality peculiar
to him), was flrst in the field, and that the advertiser’s
“Memorial Edition,” was an imitation of it, got up in
opposition to that old worker. But the advertiser knows, and
your readers ought to know, that when Judge Edmonds penned
the above quoted “ remark” he had not yet heard of the pro¬
posed testimonial. I have myself read a letter from him to
that effect. His remark, therefore, could not have been “ in
allusion to” it. Algernon Jot.
Junior United Service Club, May 25th, 1874.
MISS cook’s meditjmship.
Sir,—I have read with great interest the accounts in two
numbers of the Spiritualist of seances held at Mr. Luxmoore’s
house, at which Miss Cook has been the medium, and am
anxious to be informed—
1st. Whether Miss Cook has given a description to any one
of the state of her mind whilst Katie King has been before the
curtains ?
2nd. Does she think the appearance is that of her double ?
Whilst people are arguing with each other as to whether
Katie King is Miss Cook’s double or not, it would be interest¬
ing to know what she thinks herself.
The idea of the double, if still maintained after she has
denied it, throws a doubt on Miss Cook’s honesty.
As I have, from what I have heard, every reason to believe in
Miss Cook’s honesty and integrity, I consider that she would
be the last person to hold back the truth if she knew it; and
I maintain that if she is in a trance whilst her double is seen
and talked to, her mind is not in the sleeping body, but in
the form seen before the curtains; hence she knows that she
has to return to her other form, and would own it.
Besides, it would seem strange that the double would make
any alteration in the dress, such as taking off the boots and
stockings and appearing in white instead of in black. I think
the very fact of change of dress shows the anxiety of Katie
King not to be mistaken for the double of the medium.
Being in India, I am quite out of the way of English
Spiritualism, but I have read a good deal about it, and am
astonished at the strides it is making.
A thorough sceptic has just asked me why there is any
curtain between the medium and the other people. I told
him that the Spiritualists believed that there was a force
emanating from the sitters which might sometimes be pre¬
judicial to the production of the phenomena; but then, he
said, why not have glass instead of curtains, so that all might
see the medium.
I had no answer to that question, and if any of your cor¬
respondents can give me an answer, I shall be much obliged,
as I am not aware whether it ever has been or could be tried.
I enclose my card, and sign myself Indian.
Belgaum, India, April 30th, 1874.
[Miss Cook does not believe Katie to be her double, and they frequently
are heard talking to each other, by the direct voice. Several of the other
problems mooted by our correspondent have been considered in these
pages since his letter was written.—Ed.]
MR. MONCURE D. CONWAY ON SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—You will see from the enclosed paragraph how Mr.
Monoure D. Conway is trying to injure the cause of Spiri¬
tualism by what we in this country regard as misrepresenta¬
tions :—
M. D. Conway writes to the Cincinnati Commercial, from London:—
“ Spiritualism appears to be on the decline in this country. It has suffered
hrough the breakdown of so many of its eminent advocates. The exposure
of the Davenport brothers was a heavy blow, and the trial of Mr. Home for
his attempt to get hold of the fortune of a weak-minded old woman was a
heavier one. The exposures of other leading mediums have followed in
quick succession. But, above all, I think the reason of the decline is that
the professed jugglers, Dr. Lynn and Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke, are,
like the soothsayers who confronted Moses, imitating ]the tricks of the
Spiritualists, without, as in the Egyptian competition, being surpassed
in any.”
As Mr. Conway has the confidence of several Spiritualists
in London, it is well that the latter should know what he
thinks and reports of them and their “ tricks.” We had
thought that Spiritualism, instead of being on the decline in
England, was never commanding more attention there than
now. We had thought that the mimicries of Spiritualism by
Dr. Lynn and Messrs. Maskelyne and Cook had been tho¬
roughly and satisfactorily exposed in the lectures of Dr.
George Sexton. We knew that the so-called “ exposures ” of
the Davenport Brothers were merely repetitions of the cry that
has been going on the last twenty-five years, under such
headings as “ Spiritualism exploded at last,” “The Imposture
played out,” &c.; and yet the next day Spiritualism would be
as lively and inexplicable as ever.
And, to conclude, what Mr. Conway says of Mr. Home’s
affair with old Mrs. Lyon, which occurred some six years ago,
as being “ a still heavier blow” to Spiritualism, we believe to
■be a discreditable exaggeration, knowing as we do that the
scandal has had about as much effect on Spiritualism as it has
had on the Equator or the North Pole.
We regard the assertions of Mr. Conway as, in every parti¬
cular, inaccurate. If we are wrong in this, please let us know.
We had thought that the brave testimony of Mr. Crookes and
other competent witnesses, together with the marvellous
manifestations through Miss Cook and Miss Showers, con¬
firmed by so many enlightened investigators, was having the
effect of helping, instead of marring the cause, as the Bev. Mr.
Conway would have us think. Have we been mistaken ?
Boston, United States, A Subscriber.
May 11, 1874.  
A BABY CHRISTENED BY SPIRITS.
Sir,—We enclose an article cut from the Religio-Philosophi-
cal Journal, giving an account of some wonderful manifesta¬
tions of spirit power through our combined mediumship.
Should you deem the narration sufficiently interesting please
put it before your readers, with the information that we intend
making a professional tour through Scotland and England this
summer. By doing so you will oblige,
Bastian and Taylor,
Physical and Mental Test Mediums.
Chicago, U.S. May 11th, 1874.
“ As your readers are interested in the movements of those
justly celebrated and true spirit mediums, Messrs. Bastian and
Taylor, it is possible that an account of a remarkable seance
held by them at our house may not be uninteresting, and
although I am not very good at description, and can give but
a very limited idea of the reality, yet I will do the best I can
in giving a brief account of the beautiful and impressive
ceremony performed by Mr. Bastian’s materialised spirit band,
at the baptism of our little baby girl, who is only two weeks
old.
“ At one of Mr. Bastian’s seances I requested May, one of the
band, to name the babe, which she consented to do, and ap¬
pointed the following Saturday evening, when she, assisted by
the rest of the band, promised to baptise the infant. Punctually
at the time named, the company, invited by May herself, as¬
sembled in the parlour, of whom the first to be mentioned is
Harry Bastian, through whose organism, the angels were to
perform their beautiful mission of love, and who can never be
sufficiently rewarded in this earth-sphere for the great and
glorious relations of spiiitual life that come to humanity
through bis mediumship, at the great expense of his physical
health, which is very much prostrated. Mr. Taylor comes
next in order, with his extraordinary clairvoyant powers, kept
us posted as to what the spirits were doing, making it doubly
interesting to the company; the family, consisting of Mr. and
Mrs. de Groodt, the grandparents of the babe, who was held
in grandma’s arms, myself and husband, the]proud and happy
parents; the baby’s two little sisters, together with Mrs.
Boux, Mrs. Johnson, and a young lady at present a member of
the family, were the invited guests.
“ Ablack walnut breakfast table, covered with a white damask
table cloth, had been placed on one side of the room,.by the
side of which Mr. Bastian took his seat. On the table, by
May’s request, were placed a pillow and baby’s blanket,
a china bowl filled with lukewarm water, a white towel, a vase
264
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 29, 1874.
of spring flowers (the gift of Mrs. Roux), a guitar, music-box,
and speaking trumpet.
“The company, Mr. Taylor with them, took their places,
forming a semicircle some five feet from the table, and the
light being put out, we sang a verse of that beautiful song,
familiar to all, ‘ Sweet, By-and-bye.’ Raps were soon heard
on the guitar calling for the alphabet, and * I want some pins
and a rope,’ was quickly spelt out. As there were no sceptics
present, we had thought to relieve Mr. Bastian of his fetters,
that he might enjoy the occasion with the rest, but this was
not to be, and when the light was again put out, Johnny tied
him, hand and foot, so that it was impossible for him to move.
The company having examined the curious way in which he
was tied, the light was again extinguished and the ceremony
commenced, the familiar voices of the spirit band bidding us
good evening. George, the captain as he is called, then took
up the trumpet and, in a clear strong voice, said :—
“ * My friends, as I am the strongest to-night, I will take the
lead, and when I fail, May will proceed. Dear friends, we
have assembled here this evening to engage in baptising this
new-born babe. It is a glad and glorious occasion, one which
your friends in spirit-life, the loved ones who have passed the
second birth, hail with joy. There are present a large number
of spirit guests whom I know you welcome. Ushered into i
this life an individualised spirit, to pass through a develop¬
ment in the form, preparatory to a birth into the higher life,
it is necessary that the girl should have a name by which she
will be known, and by the request of her parents we come to
give her one. As you have been busy to-day making prepara¬
tion for the feast, so have the spirits busied themselves in
decorating the room for the occasion, and I must say it is
beautifully done. The walls and ceiling are hung with fes¬
toons of evergreens, and symbolise the remembrance in which
those in spirit life are held. In the centre of the room stands
a heart, composed of flowers, typical of the love that dwells
within you. Above the heart is suspended a dove, made of
pure white flowers, a symbol of the peace and joy that reigns
in this house. May it ever hover around its inmates. The
carpet also we have strewn with flowers, meaning the good
wishes and hopes lavished on the little one; and although you
may not see these beautiful decorations with your natural
eyes, they being done in spirit, they are nevertheless there,
and are as real to us as more material flowers are to you. We
will now have a light, that you may see what May has been
doing while I have been talking.’
“ A lamp being lit, the pillow was found beautifully deco¬
rated with flowers, ready for the reception of the infant. The
flowers were arranged tastefully around the edge of the pillow,
and pinned fast. After admiring the work of the spirits with
wonder and awe in our hearts, we again took our places, and
darkness again making everything invisible, George spoke:—
“ May desires me to describe the costumes of some of the
guests present, and although I am not very good at describing
ladies’ dresses, yet I will do the best I can. First is our
beloved sister and co-worker, May. She has on a beautiful
white dress, in texture finer than any silk, trailing gracefully
on the floor with a sheen of gold and silver. Around her neck
she wears a string of pearls, symbolising her pure life on
earth. From it is suspended a radiant star, which with one
above her brow represents the light she brings to humanity.
Near her stands Dewdrop. She wears a dress of blue, her
favourite colour, typical of truth. Her necklace is of dia¬
monds, with a cross of the same precious stones attached,
emblematic of her sufferings on earth. Next comes a spirit
calling herself Edith, the guardian of the baby’s mother. She
is robed in purple, a symbol of royalty and wisdom. Around
her neck she wears a chain of gold, typical of the fetters that
bound her in persecution on earth. Now comes the little
Indian maiden, Prairie Flower, decked in all her beads and
feathers, the especial protege of our friend, Mr. Taylor,
through whose organism she is developing for higher life.
Closely following the little maiden comes our friend and sister,
Mrs. Hemans, robed in white, with a silver lyre in her hand,
the symbol of song. Pure and useful, as her life was on earth,
it is a hundred times more useful now that she has ascended
to the higher life. The spirit wife of one you all love, Uncle
John, is here rejoicing in his happiness. The mother of Aunt
Beckie and the sister of our friend Mary are also here. Happy
to see his little sister, comes the beautiful little spirit Percie,
and last, but not least, the spirit daughter of Mrs. Roux, her
cheeks and lips rosy with happiness as she assures her mother
that she is ever near. Many more are present whom I have
not strength to describe, to witness this solemn rite and enjoy
the feast of good things prepared for them.”
“ Here the trumpet dropped, George having exhausted his
power. May’s voice was soon heard as she said, * Johnny
thinks the captain partial in describing the ladies’ dresses, and
not his. He has on black knee breeches and stockings, with
silver buckled shoes, lavender satin vest, beautiful ruffled
shirt, and purple velvet coat; his hair is curled in his
favourite style, and he thinks that he is cutting quite a swell.
Now I am coming for the baby, be very careful and not break
the circle.’
*• In a moment more she came, and taking the infant out of
its grandmother’s arms, carried it to the table and laid it on
the pillow. A hand was distinctly heard to dip in the water,
and George, in "an impressive and solemn voice, said, ‘ Costella
May, in behalf of your parents, I baptise thee in the name of
God and the angel-world, and may your pathway through life
be as sweet and free from thorns as the pillow on which you
lie. Amen.’
“ A light being rapped for, we found the newly baptised
babe, in all the innocence of babyhood, asleep upon its bed of
flowers, its drapery carefully arranged, and the blanket neatly
folded around its shoulders, unconscious of the honour con¬
ferred upon her.
“ During the ceremony the room was filled with the most
exquisite soft music, produced by Johnny on the guitar,
creating a beautiful harmony.
“ Taking the baby from the table, the pillow and other things
were removed, and at the request of the spirits, the refresh¬
ments, consisting of fruits, confections, cake, and wine, with
a large salver containing wine glasses, plates, and other acces¬
sories, were placed under the table, and taking our seats, we
again, in the dark, waited with breathless interest the move¬
ments of our invisible friends.
“ Soon May’s soft voice was heard as she cautioned Johnny
to be jcareful and not spill the wine on her dress, and not
break the dishes, while Johnny spiced their task with his
witticism.
“ A light was then called for, and behold, the table set with
the skill of experience, stood before us—not a thing out of
place, looking tempting in the extreme. After inspecting this
wonderful manifestation to our hearts’ content, darkness again
reigned, and pouring out two glasses of wine May and Johnny
drank the health of the newly baptised baby, wishing that its
journey through life might be one of sunshine and pleasure.
“ A letter was then written by Mrs. Roux’s spirit daughter
to her mother, while the music-box and guitar gave forth
sweet sounds ; at the same time, some candy was put into the
hands of the little girls, and an apple into one of the ladies-
hands.
“ George again took up the trumpet and said7\Friends, we
have exhausted all our power, and although we shall not de¬
part for an hour, but stay and partake spiritually of the good
things so bountifully provided, yet, as we shall not be able to
do it then, we will now bid you good night, and may the
blessings of God be with you.’
“ The sweet voice of May was then heard in heavenly bene¬
diction, while Johnny untied Harry, who had remained in his
uncomfortable position during the entire ceremony. The com¬
pany, after partaking of the refreshments and enjoying an hour
in congenial conversation on the solemn and impressive events
of the evening, took a reluctant departure, feeling that heaven
was indeed below.
“ Messrs. Bastian and Taylor also gave several cabinet
seances during their stay with splendid success, the mate¬
rialised spirit faces and forms being remarkably clear and
distinct. When recognised by their friends they would speak
in direct voices, beckoning them to the aperture, where they
would shake hands and caress them. Their dark circles were
particularly interesting, Mr. Taylor giving some remarkable
tests. They go away leaving a host of warm friends, many
of whom have been convinced of the truth of the spirit com¬
munion through their instrumentality.
Louisiana, U.S. Mary de Groodt.
SYCHISOHE WTUD1EN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakof, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Nurnberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
May 29, 1874. THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTS, -whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can he consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.)
Terms, One Guinea. Address, 9, Somerset-street, Portman-square,
London, W.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to *5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
6s.; and Satufday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
•vening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Campden-hill, Kensington.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush,
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-
road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica¬
tion by letter.
JY. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Yirgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
- “Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine'poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”—Standa/rd,
April 7fA, 1868.
“There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’—London Review, Feb. \5th, 1868.
“The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off.”—Daily News,
March Zd, 1868.
“ Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Oonnington’s translation of the AEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator March 1th, 1868.
mo THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
JL to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
oe Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Printed and published
by T. Scott, 1, Warwick-court, Holborn. Price One Penny.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82, St. James’s-street, and. 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery.
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, w«ll supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I, The MECHANISM of MAN-
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. ' Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The, Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the WiR.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Amina.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of Hie Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.,
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and not
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald. .
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an inteUi-
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury
, Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientifle
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book, is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Patemoster-row.
Just published,
The second yolume of | what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
Ohap.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Of the IntelligentMotive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness. -
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. Supersensuous Percep¬
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
26. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I.
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: Longman & Co Paternoster-row.
A WIDOW LADY seeks a Comfortable Home in a
Gentleman’s Family where she could render her services valuable
in any Position of Trust; she is an Experienced Housekeeper, and has
been Companion to a Lady. References exchanged. Address H., care of
T. Blyton, 11, Aye Maria Lane, London, E.C.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. Toibe had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
IV
THE SPIBITUALIST.
May 29, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H.G-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., GK Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; Q-. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles E. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,-
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. 'J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., O.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; 0. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“ Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
‘•‘George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken,Esq., Barrister-at-law; J.H. Levy,
Esq.; .^W- H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.E.G.S.;
Josiah ijgebber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of, muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent comrflunications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment=of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’   
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again writh other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household. ,
1. Let the room he of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact -with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch eacn other or not ‘is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any Communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but-an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the. members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in tie body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, arid genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
B
RITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STEELING.
Bead Qffices.-EROWK STBEET AND MAESDEN STEEET, MANCHESTER
FIBE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Beturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Eenewed Premiums:
FIDELITY GUABANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STEEET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
XNSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
X
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.”—Spiritualist.
“ The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.
MR. J. J. MOBSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
THE ALLEGED IDENTIFICATION OF THE
ENGLISH NATION WITH THE “LOST HOUSE OF ISBAEL.”
By A. L. Lewis, Honorary Secretary, London Anthropological Society.
Being a Paper read before the British Association for the Advancement of
Science (Brighton Meeting), and before the London Anthropological
Society, with the Discussions thereon. Beprinted from Anthropoldgia,
No. 2 (by permission of the Council of the London Anthropological Society).
With the addition of an Append on the alleged Scriptural Evidence. The
whole showing that Englishmen are not Israelites.
London: Published by the Author, at 4, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O. 1874.
Price Sixpence.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PE ACTIO AL BOOKBINDEB, STATIONEE, BOOKSELLEE, LETTER-
PBESS, COPPEB-PLATE, AND LITHOGEAPHIO PBINTEB, -
ENGRAVES, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper.
A CIRCLE is in Process of Formation: Sitters of Re¬
fined, Intellectual, Harmonious Natures are required: present
Members Ladies and Gentlemen of good standing. Manifestations of a
high order are promised by the Guardian Spirits for regular, faithful
attendance. - Each Applicant will be submitted to the Spirit Guardians for
approval, and it is hoped offence will not be taken upon rejection. Address
by letter, with stamped envelope for reply, to 0. W., 41, Bemard-street,
Bussell-square. Applicants may call, if preferable.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDBESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained ofMessrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by.E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London, E.O.
