AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 90.—(Vol. IV.—No. 20.) LONDON: MAY 15, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence
Contents.
An Exciting Seance at Mr. Serjeant Cox’s:—Our Refusal to publish an
ex parte Accusation—Mr. Serjeant Cox on Materialisations and the
Mediumship of Miss Showers—Serjeant Cox’s Invitation to his
Guests—Mrs. Showers’ Account of the Seance—^Extraordinary Pro¬
ceedings at the Seance—Illness of the Medium—Miss Showers and the
Spirit Florence Maple seen at the same time  229
Paragraphs ■—Sports and Pastimes, 233—Materialisations in Cleveland 240
A Farewell Visit to Ratio King, the Spirit. By Benjamin Coleman ... 234
Experiences in Spiritualism. No. II. By the late J.W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York  236
Mrs. Bird’s Mediumship     237
The Royal Institution:—The Air we Breathe     238
Correspondence:—Spirit Photographs—Spirit Forms—Mrs. Dickinson’s
Mediumship—“Timing the Spiritual Fiddle ’’—British National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists—Lunacy Law Reform Association 238
Glimpses of a Brighter Land ...     ... ... ... ... 239
Poetiy:—The Song of Truth       ...240
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modern spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 8s.; or post free 89 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873. "
President,—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—’Mx. John Lamont,
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—T&.V. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lament.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton. I Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
8.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with .the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
A PUBLIC MEETING
Will be held under the auspices of the
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION of SPIRITUALISTS,
ON
Thursday, May 21st, 1874.
AT THE
QUEBEC INSTITUTE,
15, Seymour-street, Portman-square.
AT 3 P.M. DOORS OPEN AT 2.15 P.M.
MRS. TAPPAN, MR. MORSE, MR. NOYES, DR. SEXTON, MR.
MARTIN, R. SMITH, MR. HOSKINS, AND OTHERS,
WILL ADDRESS THE MEETING.
OBJECTORS ARE SPECIALLY INVITED.
Reserved seats, 2s.;1 Body of Hall, 6d., up 'to Quarter to Three o’clock,
after that time, Free; Gallery, Free.
Tickets may be obtained of Mr. Ollivier, 39, Old Bond-street, and at 31,
Museum-street, or at the Door.
Further particulars will be announced in the leading London Daily
Papers of the 16 Dh, 19 th, 20th and 21st inst.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 86, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
fond6 par Allan Kardeo, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Sodete Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg: his life and
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forthalso the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by O. H. Jebns—x Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. HI. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &e., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and .on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.80 p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
May 15, 1874.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, |o draw up a prospectus.
Tht Objects of this Association are
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Biohabd Fitton, Secretary pro tern.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—fir. Richard Pearce.
YERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the subject attracted attention in jClerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where, several circles were formed, some Of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1868, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain -information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, ParkflaJd-s treet, Islington.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, GosweU-read, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
THE following are the Speakers at Goswell Hall on
Sunday Evenings up to the end of May:—
April 19—Mr. R. Harper, “ Reasons for being a Spiritualist.”
„ 26—Miss Eeeves.
jgj- Mrs. Bollock.
„ 17—Miss Keeves.
„ 24—Rev. F. R. Young, of Swindon.
Whit Sunday—“ The Day of Pentecost and its Spiritual Phenomena.”
Da. Sexton in the Chair.
R. Pearce.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
FOR
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(WEIR’S COURT),
NEWGATE STREET, NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open'at' 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On ho account will anyone be admitted after the time-announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be Obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of (he Committee.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRIT DALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. 0. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Llsson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. C. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, mcluding use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Council.
Mrs. C. A. Blyton,
Mr. George Blyton,
Mrs. Amelia Comer,
Mrs. Theresa Wood,
A. M. Greene, Hon. Secretary.
Mr. T. Blyton.
Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the l&th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a.perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modem Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX). Strangers can only he admitted to the ordi-
held on the first Thursday evening In each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, diseussidns, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on theyh’if Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should he enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary. 6s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Treasurer.—Herbert N. Mozlet, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
-64, BERNERS STREET.
Hon. /Sec.—Mrs. Lowe (Louisa).
Mrs. CORA L. Y. TAPPAN’S INSPIRATIONAL
DISCOURSES.
The Committee, encouraged by the support given to their former Course,
have much pleasure in announcing that they have made arrangements for
the delivery of a further Course of SIX LECTURES, extending from the
5th of April to the 17th of May, to he held at Cleveland Hall, as hereto¬
fore, at 7 p.m., on Sunday Evenings.
Tickets for the Reserved Benches will be 12s. each for the Course, and
for the Chairs 6s. each for the Course. Applications for Tickets to be made
to Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square, S.W., enclosing Post-office Orders.
The Committee hope that some friends of the movement will feel dis¬
posed to assist, by forwarding small donations at the same time.
Single Tickets of Admission, or Tickets for the Course, can be purchased
at the doors.
A large portion of the Hall is reserved for the Free Admission of In¬
quirers and the General Public.
Price 2s. 6d.
/GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND.—
VJT Showing the harmony of things spiritual with things material.
“ The tone of the hook is exceedingly pure and good.”—Christian Spiri¬
tualist.
*** A list of spiritual and mesmeric works on application.
London: Bailliere and Co., King William-street, Strand.
CHILDISH FANCIES.
Twenty short pieces in various keys for the pianoforte, composed by
CHARLTON TEMPLEMAN SPEER (Sits. 13).
Dedicated to Mrs. Denis, Fairbrook House, Rathfamham, Dublin.
PRICE THREE SHILLINGS.
London: Published by R. Limpus, at the College of Organists, 41, Queen-
square, Bloomsbury.
VOJLUJVIE FOUR. JMUJVIBEF^ TWEJMTY.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 18th, 1874.
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADYERTISEMENTSThree shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or flgnres
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
.Reduced terms for extended periods.
The, Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, hut preserved for binding.
Ooerespondenoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions):—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
Any delay or ii'regularity in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
Ihe Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street,
Washington.—Bichard Eoberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 1S4, Bourke-street.
„ - Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseUer, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. B. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
,, Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Bichmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent. Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst.—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-ttreet.
.Taradale.—J. T. Eiley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-cburchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
JjlEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—A, Fitzroy-square, W. .
AN EXCITING SEANCE AT MR. SERJEANT COX’S.
Two or three weeks ago Mr. Serjeant Cox sent us
a letter about a seance in his house, which, he asserted,
demonstrated the non-professional medium, Miss
Showers, and the alleged spirit, “ Florence Maples,”
to be one and the same person. He did not exactly
bring a charge of imposture, but stated that the medium
might have been entranced and unconscious at the
time. We declined to print the letter, and returned it
to Mr. Serjeant Cox, accompanied by the following
comments:—
OUB REFUSAL TO PUBLISH AN EX PABTE ACCUSATION.
At your request I return you the enclosed letter, which
virtually brings a charge of imposture against Miss Showers,
chiefly because her chair in the cabinet was seen to be empty,
when it was assumed she ought to have been seen sitting
upon it.
Before the seance spoken of by you took place, it had been
published in The Spiritualist that during one seance, at least
(at Mrs. Gregory’s), the medium was lying on the floor,
entranced, while the face calling itself Florence showed itself.
The other circumstances you mention about the seance look
suspicious, but are not sufficient, in my opinion, to justify me
in doing anything in print to tarnish the character of a young
lady, especially as I have satisfied myself that Mrs. and Miss
Showers are ladies of high name and character, and that the
phenomena, whatever the meaning of them may be, have
brought them little else but trouble.
As I have told Mrs. Showers, 1 have not personally seen
what I call a thoroughly good test seance with Miss Showers,
but the experiences of Mr. Luxmoore and Mr. Tapp contradict
your inferences, and of course their testimony is as good as
your own.
Then, it must be remembered that Mrs. and Miss Showers
visited your house as guests, after repeated invitations, and
that the attempt to seize the head of Florence was treating a
guest under the shelter of your roof as an impostor. Seeing
that the ladies were thus friendless in your house, and sur¬
rounded by those antagonistic conditions which are known by
experienced Spiritualists to produce unsatisfactory results, it
is my duty to take a general survey of the statements of
others, as well as your own, the result being that I do not feel
justified in injuring Miss Showers in print by the publication
of your letter. Moreover, your remarks about Miss Cook and
Mr. Williams I know, from ample physical demonstration, not
to be just.
Mr. Spiller attended a seance once in your house, and in the
newspapers said, quite conscientiously, that it was imposture;
whereupon you wrote, censuring his hasty conclusions. His
theories and preconceived opinions had their influence in
governing his actions. Do you, in like manner, think that
you are justified in inflicting public injury on the strength of
one evening’s experience, which experience is already more
than counterbalanced by that of others ?
Not a breath of slander has ever tarnished the name of any
honourable person in the columns of The Spiritualist, although
when the evidence has been absolute, imposture has always
been exposed therein, as in the case of the alleged spirit
photographs. I have no interest in defending Miss Showers,
but am simply scrupulously careful about the publication of
ex parte statements, injurious to personal character, not quite
conclusive in themselves, and negatived to a gieat extent by
the previous experience of other witnesses.
If you publish that The Spiritualist would not print your
narrative, please publish also this letter of mine showing the
reason why. But I think that, like Mr. Spiller, you will be
230
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 15, 1874.
grievously in error in publishing serious inferences founded
upon slender experience.
Mr. Serjeant Cox then amended and sent his letter to
the editor of the Medium, saying the editor of the
Spiritualist had declined to insert it; but he did not
publish the above letter, showing the reason why, as
requested in the last paragraph. He said :—
I enclose a letter, which I sent to The Spiritualist, but
which the editor declined to insert, alleging that one experi¬
ment did not suffice, and that the spectators might have been
mistaken.
ME. SEEJEANT COX OX MATEEIA1ISATIONS AND THE
MEDIUMSHIP OF MISS SHOWEES.
The following is Mr. Serjeant Cox’s amended letter
in its entirety, which, having been published else¬
where last week, and already perused by most of the
readers of these pages, we now quote, with Mrs.
Showers’s version of the facts appended :—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sib,—The phenomenon of materialisation of the entire
human form is so astounding, so utterly at variance with all
our conceptions alike of spirit and of matter, and so entirely
inexplicable by any theory, however wild, that it can be
accepted as a fact only upon the most conclusive evidence.
Fortunately, this evidence can be readily obtained. The
alleged fact is not something in itself incapable of positive
proof, or of which the proof is difficult, or upon which, when
proof is given, there can be a difference of opinion. Its
solution needs to be left in no doubt whatever. It is to be
determined by the senses—by the eye or the hand. Science
has a right to ask, why is not such proof given ? Why is a
fact of such overwhelming importance left to be determined
by complicated machinery, invitations upon which suspicious
conditions are imposed, dubious lights, and such like, when it
could be settled in a moment by simply putting forth the hand
and drawing a curtain, or by walking into the room where the
medium sits, or, best of all, by a patch of burnt cork upon
the medium’s cheek ? I am aware that the answer made to
such reasonable and sufficient tests is, that a sudden influx of
light, or the holding of the alleged “ form,” &c., would be
dangerous to the health or even to the life of the medium.
What proof is there of this ? Has any medium ever been
killed by it ? But it is an assertion which of itself excites the
gravest suspicion, for if trickery were designed this would be
precisely the condition to facilitate it. But the assertion is
not true, as I shall presently show. At all events, no positive
harm could come of a letter written on the forehead with a bit
of cork.
I have seen the forms of Katie and Florence together in the
full light, coming out from the room in which Miss Cook and
Miss Showers were placed, walking-about, talking, playing
girlish tricks, patting us and pushing us. They were solid
flesh and blood and bone. They breathed, and perspired, and
ate, and wore a white head-dress and a white robe from neck
to foot, made of cotton and woven by a loom. Not merely did
they resemble their respective mediums, they were fac-similes
of them—alike in face, hair, complexion, teeth, eyes, hands,
and movements of the body. Unless he had been otherwise so
informed, no person would have doubted for a moment that
the two girls who had been placed behind the curtain were now
standing in propria persona before the curtain playing very
prettily the character of ghost.
On that occasion there was nothing to avoid this conclusion
but the bare assertion of the forms in white that they were
not what they appeared to be, but two other beings in the like¬
ness of Miss Cook and Miss Showers; and that the real ladies
werC at that moment asleep on the sofa behind the curtain.
But of this their assertion no proof whatever was given or
offered or permitted. The fact might have been established
in a moment beyond all doubt by the simple process of open¬
ing the curtain and exhibiting the two ladies then and there
upon the sofa, wearing their black gowns. But this only cer¬
tain evidence was not preferred, nor, indeed, was it allowed us
—the conditions exacted from us being that we should do
nothing by which, if it were a trick, we should be enabled to
discover it.
This and similar exhibitions have been advanced as proofs
■of positive materialisation, and it is said, “You have seen,
heard, touched the spirit forms.” iTrue, I have seen two
forms, and they were material forms beyond all question.
But they exactly resembled the ladies, and not the slightest
proof was given or allowed to me that they were not the
ladies themselves, as they appeared to all of us to be.
But I have had one piece of evidence that goes far to
throw a doubt over the whole. At a sitting with Miss
Showers, a few days ago, the curtain, behind which the form
of Florence was exhibiting her face, was opened by a spec¬
tator ignorant of the conditions, and a peep behind the scenes
was afforded to those present. I am bound, in the interests
of truth and science, to say that I, as well as all the others,
beheld revealed to us, not a form in front and a lady in the
chair, but the chair empty, and the lady herself at the curtain
wearing the ghost head-dress, and dressed in her own black
gown! - Nor was she lying on the floor as some have surmised.
When the head was thrust out between the curtain the eyes
were turned up with the fixed stare which has been observed
in the supposed Florence, but the eyes rapidly assumed their
natural position when the exposure was made, and the hands
were forthwith actively employed in trying to close
the curtain, and in the struggle with the inspecting
lady the spirit headdress fell off. I was witness to
it all, and the extraordinary scene that followed — the
voice crying out 1 You have killed my medium! ”—an alarm
which, by the bye, was quite needless, for she was neither
killed or injured beyond the vexation of the discovery. She
said in excuse that she was unconscious of what she had done,
being in a state of trance. Doubtless it was so, and I impute
no blame or deliberate trick to her. But the fact was com¬
pletely established that, on this occasion at least Florence
was Miss Showers herself. It established also another fact,
that the throwing of light and touching of the spirit does not
kill or injure the medium, as was proved also by the rude
seizure of Katie. Investigators need therefore feel no alarm
in the application of rational tests—and the only rational
test is that which common sense prescribes—a view. If, while
the form is without in white, the medium be shown behind the
curtain in black, plain to the eyes of all the spectators, the
greatest marvel the world has ever known will be proved
beyond further controversy. Until this is done, the pre¬
sumption will be, as it ought to be, that the forms are in fact
what they appear, and as all the evidence goes to prove them
to be, the veritable mediums, and neither their doubles nor
other spirits assuming their likeness.
I must not be understood as assuming that because in one
instance the medium was playing “ spirit ” she has done so
in all cases, or that others have done the like, and still less do
I accuse her of deliberate imposture. I know that in the
mesmeric condition patients are often unconscious actors,
obeying merely the strong desire of those about them, and I
readily accept the excuses she made. But such an incident
certainly calls for much more perfect tests than any that have
been yet applied before the fact of materialisation can be
accepted.
I am no advocate for unconditional tests. All experimental
science must be conducted in accordance with certain con¬
ditions. But there are tests not inconsistent with the pro¬
duction of the phenomena, and science and truth may fairly
demand their application. I can understand objection to a
test that would or might prevent the occurrence of the phe¬
nomenon, such as light during the process of materialisation,
if that be a reality. But the test now demanded is a trial if
the phenomenon, after it. is produced, is real or pretended.
The act of materialisation being completed, no subsequent
test to try if it be real or pretended could affect that result.
The only objection that has been raised is that of possible
injury to the medium. But in the only two instances in
which touch has been tried no harm came of it to either
medium, and therefore the alleged danger is purely imaginary,
as proved by actual experience.
I write in hope that these considerations will induce honest
truth-seekers to apply the only tests admissible in a matter of
such overwhelming interest, and to be content with nothing
less than a plain unquestionable view of both spirit and
medium at the same moment, or by making some mark upon
either medium or spirit, or both, which shall at once establish
their identity or difference. What would be said of any dis¬
puted great discovery in science if a piece of burnt cork
would determine it, and the experimentalist refused to try it ?
April 23rd, 1874. Edwabd W. Cox,
The above letter shows that Mr. Seijeant Cox does
not believe, and places no reliance whatever upon, the
May 15, 1874
THE SPIRITUALIST.
231
published statement of his former bosom friend, Mr.
William Crookes, that he (Mr. Crookes) has been in
the cabinet with Miss Cook, and seen and felt her and
her “double,” or the spirit Katie, at the same time.
In the cases of Mr. Williams and Miss Cook, the fact
of materialisation has been absolutely and physically
demonstrated, before different witnesses and in so many
ways—as already published in these pages—that it is
unnecessary to say more upon that point; so we return
to the subject of the seance held at Mr. Serjeant Cox’s
house. The following is his letter inviting Mrs. and
Miss Showers to pay him a friendly visit:—
SERJEANT COX’S INVITATION TO HIS GUESTS.
“ Moat Mount, Hendon.
My dear Mrs. [Showers.—Before you return to Devonshire
I am very anxious that you and Miss Showers should spend a
day or two here, at my country house, where fresh air,
abundance of flowers and other favourable conditions would
conduce to the best phenomena, and where also I should have
the advantage of observing them quietly in my own circle, and
with no strangers. I should feel very greatly obliged if you
would afford me such an opportunity. Any hour that is con¬
venient to you will be convenient to us. Appoint whatever
day you please to come and we shall be ready to receive
you. My carriage will meet you at the station, and you
will be free of the gardens and grounds, and my wife and
daughter will make your visit as pleasant as possible. Any
day next week would do, and you will, I hope, spend three days
here at least. The change of air and scene cannot fail to be
very beneficial to Miss S. after her illness, from which I am
glad to see she is recovering. Write to me addressing 1,
Essex-court, Temple, and say when you will come, choosing
your own time, and I will then give you full directions. We
are only ten miles from London, trains frequent, fare Is. 6d.,
and my carriage meets us at the station. As I am now busily
engaged in [investigations, and your daughter’s phase of
mediumship is very novel and interesting. I hope you will
give me this only opportunity for studying it.—Yours very
truly. (Signed) Edwabd W. Cox.
P.S.—Even if you have resolved to return I hope you will
delay your journey for this purpose.
The following are extracts from the letter which
Mrs. Showers has sent to] the Medium for publication
this week, in answer to Mr. Seijeant Cox’s charge:—
MRS, SHOWERS’ ACCOUNT OE THE SEANCE.
I am glad that I was dissuaded from publishing an account
of this disgraceful affair previously to my departure from
London, for the value of Serjeant Cox’s testimony can be
estimated by those who learn that this memorable seance took
place under his own hospitable roof, and that the people so
“ ignorant of conditions ” were his daughter and himself, to
whom the conditions had been communicated by the con¬
trolling spirit, the circle of investigators being limited to his
wife, daughter, youngest son, and nephew—a boy about
seventeen, or less.
It may be in the recollection of your readers, that at the
end of last year I published an account of some very re¬
markable spiritual manifestations that had occurred in my
house at Teignmouth. I had sent ypu a brief notice of them
some months previously, without authorising you to publish
my name and address, which I only appended to my account
in the Spiritualist when I thought that my authentication
might be of’some service, in consequence of the genuineness of
the manifestations having been made at the time a matter of
much discussion. I pronounced no opinion whatever relative
to the spirit form; but talented and able men, after pieceing
together all the evidence, and carefully observing the severe
tests that were imposed, arrived at the conclusions they did
without any bias from [me. I maintain, therefore, that the
statement of Serjeant Gox in the letter before me is as much
an insult to these gentlemen as it is to me and my daughter.
All that I did was to relate circumstances precisely as they
occurred, concluding by mentioning that the almost un¬
paralleled manifestations I had witnessed culminated in the
enhancement of my daughter for the spirit form which was
presented to us, not as a trick, not as a jest, but with the
utmost solemnity, hemmed round by conditions which I was
earnestly warned on no account to violate, not because the
mere touching or grasping was likely to be hopelessly in
jurious, but because the forcible and prolonged detention of
it would result either in death or idiocy. *
Among those who perused my papers was Serjeant Cox, who
lost little time in introducing himself to me. It is some
satisfaction now to reflect that in his letter he spoke of having
read my account “ with astonishment,” because if he was
astonished there was evidently something there that his
theory would not altogether cover, and as my narration is
true, in the minutest detail, it is to be presumed that there are
phases of Spiritualism of which Serjeant Cox has, as yet, had
no experience, and his presumption in writing in the authori¬
tative tone he does, and in suggesting] tests, is merely a
case of blindness laying down the law of optics. Applicable,
indeed, was the remark of Mr. Atkinson, that “ fools rush in
where angels fear to tread.”
With characteristic courtesy and legal sharpness, Serjeant
Cox coolly ignores the presence at the seance to which he refers
of a fifth person. I may as well mention, therefore, that I
was that person, and was, moreover, his invited guest I Nay,
there was yet a sixth person, a military investigator, whose
chivalrous sense of honour led him to play the somewhat un¬
dignified part of spy in the verandah, his father-in-law having,
by a clever manoeuvre, drawn a curtain only partially over one
of the windows without closing the shutter, which he told me
was closed. This was detected, and the window finally
secured. It was Mrs. Cox who drew my attention to this
man, and had I possessed the sharpness of Mr. Cox and Mrs.
Edwards, had my mind been intent solely on the detection of
hypocrisy, the seance would not have been proceeded with.
Anyhow, the consequences (except in the very material respect
of serious injury to my daughter) would have been the same.
I was enticed into the house with one object, and one alone,
that of forcing testimony to contradict Mr. Crookes. Had it
been otherwise, would some impartial and disinterested person
not have been invited on the important occasion when this
conscientious man undertook the unmasking of a fraud ? I
read that on the occasion when the two forms appeared in
Mr. Crookes’ laboratory “they breathed, they perspired, they
ate.” Indeed! Who provided the refreshments ? Perhaps
the kind-hearted serjeant had a few buns and nuts in his
pocket, with which he contrived to feed them surreptitiously,
after the fashion of wild animals in a menagerie. One thing
here, I observe, he has again omitted, and that is, that after
that sea/nce he dressed Miss Showers’s head in some drapery,
placed and measured her against the door-post, and then,
finding her some inches shorter, he turned away exclaiming,
‘1 It is not the same face; no, that is not the same face.” Mr.
Crookes and a member of his family present can corroborate
this.
Mrs. Showers then gives Mr. Serjeant Cox’s letter of
invitation, already quoted in this article, and continues
thus:—
EXTRAORDINARY PROCEEDINGS AT THE SEANCE.
I received another letter subsequently, almost imploring
me to delay my departure for ‘ the sake of science,’ and it is
needless to add that we, the[two martyrs of science, found our¬
selves at Moat Mount on the evening of the 3rd of April.
We dined at six. The Medium contained a letter from
Mr. Crookes, relative^to his successful experiment, and Mr.
Cox talked of it in a very excited way. I noticed this, but
being of an unsuspicious nature I did not feel the least
anxiety regarding my daughter, calumny itself, as I thought,
being unable to attribute imposture to people in our position
of life: people who, as far as appearances went, had but one
object, viz., the advancement of truth.
After dinner a cabinet was extemporised; Mrs. Edwards
was particularly energetic, and desired a footman to bring in
the rope that he had provided on the previous evening, by
which it appears that our amiable host had left untried no
means of securing our comfort. The dining room has three
large windows, from which are suspended three pairs of thick
tapestry curtains; these curtains were held out by this rope,
which extended from one end of the room almost to the other.
Opposite the two centre curtains a chair was placed for the
medium, the chair being in full view of the aperture, which
was constructed by me, as follows :—
A large shawl was carefully pinned over the two centre
curtains; the space of a foot was left unfastened, just to
allow a face to appear, and the curtain was then pinned
♦Whatever then may he the being who presents herself as Florence,
whether entranced medium, or independent spirit, all I know is, that she
has no knowledge of me, and in her I do not recognise my child,—F. S.
232
THE SPIRITUALIST.
above. Peter gave out the conditions, which were—that we
were to sit in a semi-circle at the other end of the room, and
only approach one by one, keeping at a distance. It is
needless to add that no one obeyed.
I find I have omitted to mention that in some correspond¬
ence with Serjeant Cox,—indeed, in answer to his first letter,—
I voluntarily told him that the so-called materialised form
appeared in my opinion to be that of the entranced medium.
Here I must confess I did some violence to my own convictions,
but I had heard in other instances of this very charge of
imposture, and tried to act as openly as I could, preferring, as
I have previously said, that people should form their own
conclusions after due examination. Some statement to this
effect has even been published by Mr. Harrison, so I need not
say any more about it. I never thought for a moment that
the face manifestation was considered such a very important
one. Where the whole of the powerMemonstrated was unques¬
tionably super-human, one thing was not a whit more wonder¬
ful than another. The commonest spirit rap is as incompre¬
hensible to me as the materialisation of form—that is to say,
it surpasses the limits of my knowledge, and is totally opposed
to all my past experience. Can Serjeant Cox explain it ?
However, to proceed. The medium went into the cabinet
but did not sit down in the chair, so far as anybody knew or
saw. Peter complained that the conditions were lost, and
threatened once or twice that he would give no seance, but I
urged him on, and in due time Mrs. Cox went up to the
aperture, and returned, saying, “ It is your daughter’s face;
it is your daughter in a trance, Mrs. Showers.” I was sitting
far away, and had no intention of moving from my seat a
moment before, but after hearing what Mrs. Cox had said, I
thought I would like to see whether the resemblance was
stronger than usual, and accordingly approached the cabinet.
Mrs. Edwards was then standing before the aperture. I was
close by on her left, waiting for my turn to approach.
Serjeant Cox was on her right. In an instant I saw her dart
to the curtain, try to pull open the aperture and force in her
own head. I asked what she was doing, and seized her wrists.
She retreated, exclaiming, ” The chair is empty, there is no one
in it. It is your daughter; it is your daughter in a trance. I
thought you would like to know, Mrs. Showers.”
“ The medium is in a trance on the floor,” said Peter in a
deep and solemn voice. “ Go back to your seat, you [Peter's
adjectives omiWecf] woman. Serjeant Cox, how could you permit
this, sir ? ” “ Oh, I did not know it; indeed I did not know it.
My daughter was ignorant of conditions ; she has never been
at a seance before.” And he looked as distressed and
sympathising as possible. No attempt was made to go into
the cabinet; no attempt was made to contradict Peter. On
the contrary, the young son of Serjeant Cox did his best to
obey instructions and restore conditions. The aperture was
pinned as I have described, and it was never opened sufficiently
to allow any person to see anything whatever. My astonish¬
ment therefore on reading an account of a “ displaced head¬
dress,” and a “sudden lowering of the eyes,” may be better
imagined than described. It is rather curious, if this happened,
that Serjeant Cox should have kept it from me, and told me
besides that he knew from the beginning Miss Showers was
entranced. “ Nobody but an entranced person could possibly
hold her eyes in that position,” he added. With reference to
the remark, “ She said, in excuse, that she was unconscious
of what she had done, being in a state of trance,” it is perhaps
needless to observe that it is, if anything, the greatest false¬
hood of all. No sound was uttered either by my daughter
or by Florence, till the former rushed put of the cabinet,
shrieking, “ What is it? Where am I?” The relation of this
hideous violation of all the laws of hospitality, this entrapping
of two respectable ladies as if they were conjurors’ wives,
will make the blood of many boil, or I have no knowledge of
human nature. It may go down with the unthinking rabble;
but there are gentlemen and ladies in the world—there are
people who, sincere themselves, recognise sincerity when they
see it, and they will perhaps ask by what right Serjeant Cox
rates his word higher than mine ? Our social position is the
same, and my conduct has been, to say the least of it, more
disinterested than his. Is it because I have come forward at
much trouble, expense, and annoyance to myself to bear
testimony to an unpopular truth? ... I may not perhaps
have stated the matter as satisfactorily as I might have done,
but the sincerity I possess is by no means glib at answering
questions in the witness box. Serjeant Cox may possibly
think that the end justifies the means, and that he is doing a
noble work by hounding on the ignorant and the unreflecting
to martyr mediums, but it is a case of the blind leading the
May 15, 1874.
blind. These manifestations are developing elsewhere; they are
engaging the attention, at last, of scientific men; their truth is
being established on evidence incontrovertible. When my
daughter came out of the trance, the scene was beyond
description. I could hardly recognise in the frantic creature
who had to be held down by Serjeant Cox and myself on the
floor, and resembling more a wild animal than a human being,
the dimpled smiling girl who had gone into the cabinet a short
time before.
Mrs. Showers then goes on to state that the shrieks
of her daughter might have been heard a mile off,
whilst Mr. Serjeant Cox was on his knees for an hour
by her side, trying to soothe and mesmerise her, until
Mrs. Cox, in tones of indignation, said, “ He has no
mesmeric power, none whatever. Make him get up.
Do make him get Up.” She also states that soon after
Miss Showers rushed out of the cabinet, Mrs. Edwards
cleared out of the room in three bounds, and secured her
safety by shutting the door. Mrs. Showers closes her
narrative with these words;—
ILLNESS OE THE MEDIUM.
My daughter has been most seriously injured by this
business, the shock felt by the spirit having evidently been
communicated to her. Since that night she has seldom been
altogether free from pain, and is at present confined to her
bed. The doctor attributes her illness to shock to the nervous
system. Perhaps the publication of a medical certificate to
this effect may avert a similar fate from other mediums.
MISS SHOWERS AND THE SPIRIT FLORENCE MAPLE SEEN
AT THE SAME TIME.
Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law, a friend of
Sergeant Cox, well known and much respected in the
literary world, and the author of the article on “ Modern
Miracles” recently published in London Society, has
favoured us with the following letter about the medium-
ship of Miss Showers :—j
To the Editor of “. The Spiritualist."
Sir,—You will oblige me, if you will allow me to refer as
briefly as I can to two remarkable contributions, to what may be
termed “ The great modern mystery,”-—I mean the able and
exhaustive article of Mr. Wallace, in the new number of the
Fortnightly Review, and the letter of Mr. Serjeant Cox
addressed to a contemporary last week.
With regard to Mr. Wallace’s article, I am sure I but echo
the wish of all interested in these phenomena, when I express
the hope that his second article will be as thoroughly thought
out as the first, and that he will bring his experiences down to
the most recent developments of the materialised form as
shown under the mediumship of Miss Cook; and Miss
Showers. Meantime, I think I am justified in expressing
satisfaction at the manner in which Mr. Wallace has disposed
of Lord Amberley; and his very superficial researches.
Nothing can, I consider, be more unfair on the part of
inquirers of his lordship’s type, than the conclusion to
which they arrive—namely, that because they have seen
nothing in the presence of professional mediums which they
believe to be inconsistent with imposture, and clumsy
imposture too, ergo, there is nothing whatever in facts, to
which hundreds of intelligent witnesses have testified with
non-professional mediums. With the utmost respect, therefore,
for Lord Amberley and other incidental casual and superficial
observers, I for one, must emphatically decline to have my
intelligence and that of my friends dwarfed to the proportion
of his!
With this remark I take "leave of Lord Amberley and his
valuable researches in the cause of truth.
The letter of Serjeant Cox deserves more than a passing
reference. I think too, it is but right that I, who, in common
with two or three others, have had possibly exceptionally
good opportunities of testing the phenomena produced in the
presence of Miss Showers, should break silence. I had not
intended to enter the controversy, nor would I have done so
now, but that my learned friend himself throws out a chal¬
lenge. He says in his letter, “ Why is a fact (the bona fides
of the apparition) of such overwhelming importance left to be
determined by complicated machinery ? — (experiments by
Messrs. Crookes and Varley, I suppose)—invitations upon
May 15, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
233
which suspicious conditions are imposed, dubious lights, and
such like, when it could be settled in a moment by simply
putting forth the hand, or drawing a curtain, and by walking
into the room where the medium sits; or best of all, by a
piece'of burnt cork upon the medium’s cheek.” Now it is
simply because I myself was enabled to get the satisfactory
proof which Mr. Serjeant Cox requires, that I venture a reply
to his communication. He states that at a seance at which
he was present (he does not say where) a person (whom he
does ’not identify), but who was “ignorant of conditions,”
beheld “ not a form in front, and a lady in the chair, but the
chair empty, and the lady herself, wearing the ghost’s head¬
dress, and wearing her own black gown.” It is far from my
desire for a moment to insinuate that Mr. Serjeant Cox does
not write exactly as he believes; but I desire in vindication of
Miss Showers (and without any communication whatever with
her), to state my own experience after the episode to which he
refers.
On the last evening that Miss Showers gave a seance bX the
house of our mutual friend, Mr. Luxmoore, I was particularly
anxious (as was our host and another gentleman present), to get
the very proof which Mr. Serjeant Cox desires. The appa¬
rition of Florence Maple came out and remained in the front
drawing-room for more than half an hour, during which time
she only returned once or twice to the back room, behind the
partly closed folding door of which we had left Miss Showers,
seated, but without any precaution, such as tying, &e. We
did not consider these tests necessary, but we thoroughly ex¬
amined the room, and locked the door leading to the staircase.
Knowing that doubts had been thrown upon the truth and
candour of Miss Showers, and also of Mrs. Showers (for if
there was fraud both ladies must have been privy to it), I said
to Florence, “ I want you particularly to give me a test that
must satisfy everybody.” She replied, “I will if I can.”
I then said, “ I want to see you and the medium together.”
The reply was, “ I will try.” No conditions of any kind were
imposed. A minute or two afterwards she drew back the cur¬
tain, and, beckoning me forward, said, “Look.” I advanced
I own with feelings of curiosity, but with perfect composure,
for I had little doubt as to what would be revealed. Still hold¬
ing the curtain, Florence pointed with her disengaged hand,
and there, seated in the chair, with her head thrown over her
left shoulder and the right side of her face visible, was un¬
questionably the immobile and unconscious form of Miss
Showers.
y Having satisfied myself on this point, I returned to my
seat, but on the re-appearance of Florence immediately after¬
wards, I went up to her and said, “ Will you give me one
more test to satisfy me ? ” The answer was as before, “ I will
if I can, but what is it ? ” I replied, “ I want this crowning
test, I want to follow you instantly behind the curtain.”
Florence at once acceded. She made no stipulation or condi¬
tion of any kind; but I said, “I will put the lamp on the
sofa, close to the folding-doors, so that the light may come
direct into the room.” To this she rejoined, “ You can do so,
and come at once when I tell you.” I put the lamp on the sofa,
and Florence retired behind the curtain. I was then sitting
on the sofa about three feet from the curtain. She had not
disappeared a second, when she put her right hand and arm
through the curtain, and said, “ Come now.” I sprang up,
and throwing aside the curtain, which I held back wide with
my right hand, I stood inside, but could see—nothing, except
Miss Showers still in a trance in the arm-chair. “ Where are
you, Florence ? ” I exclaimed. No answer. I repeated the
question, and there came from the corner of the room imme¬
diately behind the medium a voice (the clear, sweet voice of
Florence), “ Oh, I am here; can’t you see me ?” I could see
nothing. I replied, “ I cannot see you; but if you are there,
touch me.” I then held out my disengaged hand over the
head of the medium, and it was grasped by a thin cold touch,
but £ could see no hand. I then said, “ Will you touch me
when I touch the medium?” “Yes,” she replied, “hold
out your hand and rest it on her head.” This I did, and was
again grasped.
I then returned to the front room thoroughly satisfied—
firstly, that the apparition was a materialised form instinct
with intelligence; and secondly, that it could disappear at
Will by making itself instantaneously invisible.
Now, I wish it to be distinctly understood that where these
irrefragible tests were given no conditions or stipulations of
any kind were laid down or assented to. Had I been so
minded, nothing could have prevented me from grasping the
apparition in a manner which some persons consider justifi¬
able, but which I do not. Knowing what I do I will not incur
such a responsibility, even did not the laws of hospitality and
right feeling forbid it.
I write before I have become acquainted with the case
which Mrs. Showers will no doubt supply on the other side;
but taking Mr. Serjeant Cox’s statement as published, it does
not, in my opinion, necessarily imply any want of good faith
on the part of Miss Showers, who may have been wholly
unconscious of what was passing, while it corroborates an
assertion which my own experience led me to make in my
recent article in London Society, that the whole phenomena are
full of contradiction and inconsistency. I have often noted*
cases in which circumstances have occurred in the presence of
suspicious and unsympathetic persons, as if they were done
purposely to throw discredit upon the phenomena; and yet
on other occasions, when no such influences were present, far
more wonderful manifestations have occurred than were
anticipated.
For these inconsistencies I can offer no explanation, but I
cannot conclude without expressing my perfect and entire
confidence in the honour and truthfulness of Miss Showers.
Time the Avenger will vindicate her, as it has already
vindicated others. Her friends can afford to await the moment,
assured that in the end it will come.
For myself, I would not waste a precious hour to convert all
mankind to the new truth. Henry M. Dunphy.
3, Essex Court, Temple, 11th May.
In conclusion, in our opinion it is greatly to be re¬
gretted that Mr. Serjeant Cox should have brought the
seance at his house under public notice. Even had he
succeeded in showing that no materialisation took place
through the non-professional mediumship of Miss
Showers, it would not have shaken the well-attested
fact of materialisations having occurred through other
mediums, in presence of leading scientific men and
other good witnesses. In consequence of knowing that
such materialisations were real, and occurred under test
conditions, we after some weeks of observation and
inquiry publicly recognised the mediumship of Miss
Showers, because of the resemblance of the manifesta¬
tions to others which had been produced under good
physical tests, because Miss Showers had no advantage
to gain and much to lose by being known as a
medium, and because of a full conviction of the sincerity
of Mrs. and Miss Showers, which we believe to be also
felt by the numerous personal Mends of Mr. Serjeant
Cox, who had the honour of making their acquaintance,
and witnessing many successive seances at Mrs. Gregory’s.
Moreover, we witnessed one or two somewhat stringent
test ‘seances with Miss Showers, although the best took
place in our absence.
Mrs. Showers, who naturally under the circumstances
writes under the influence of strong feeling, inserted in
her letter one or two paragraphs of a more strongly
personal character than those we have quoted; these
we have omitted; since they have no direct bearing
upon the issue, but they will be found in the Medium
of this date, since the journal which made the seance a
matter for public discussion will of course print the de¬
fence made by Mrs. Showers on her daughter’s behalf.
The matter must be more or less painful to all the
actors in the scene at Moat Mount, and neither science
nor Spiritualism can gain much by the public parading
of the details.
Spouts and Pastimes. — Yesterday’s sermon at St.
James’s Church, Piccadilly, the fourth of the series, “ On the
Use and Abuse of the World and the Things that are in the
World,” was preached by the Archbishop of York, the subject
being “ Sports and Pastimes.” His Grace noticed the anoma¬
lous state of the law in regard to cruel amusements, said it
would hereafter be matter of curious history that gentlemen
should have boasted of slaughtering so many thousand head
of game driven into a space from which the creatures had no
escape, and added that women who make a holiday over such
sport are without love or pity.—Daily Telegraph,
234
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 15,1874.
A FAREWELL YISIT TO KATIE KINO, THE SPIRIT.
BY BENJAMIN COLEMAN.
I cheerfully accepted an invitation to attend on
Saturday, May 9tli, one of Miss Cook’s seances, at which
the well-known materialised spirit of Katie King was
expected to appear, and, having been requested to give
my account of what transpired on this eventful evening,
I now do so, merely premising that the readers of this
journal are no doubt aware that this spirit, who calls
herself Katie King, first made, her presence known to
the family of Mr. Cook, of Hackney, just three years
ago, by controlling their eldest daughter, Florence,
promising that, if surrounded by suitable influences,
she would prove one of the greatest mediums known.
Happily for the cause of science, Mr. Charles Black¬
burn, of Manchester, became interested in this young
lady’s career, and at once made such arrangements as
should render it unnecessary for her to become a pro¬
fessional medium. Those who have been readers of
the Spiritualist newspaper have been from time to time
informed of the growing interest which has attended
this young girl’s progress; and how for more than two
years the materialised form of the spirit has appeared
palpably to some hundreds of invited guests who have
attended Miss Cook’s seances. And now that the spirit
has accomplished her mission, as she avers, she is
about to leave the scenes of earth punctually on the
day she originally announced, viz., the 21st of
May, 1874, three years from the date she first
controlled Florence Cook. All those who have closely
followed up these meetings, and heard from the lips
of the spirit what she would accomplish at various
times, if suitable conditions could be secured, and who
all say she has never failed to realise a promise once
made by her, feel sure that she means to take her
departure on the day she has fixed, but only to make
way for other manifestations of a still higher form—
that of recognisable faces of the spirits, and probably
the persons of our departed friends.
The seance I am about to describe was conducted, as
all the later ones have been, by Mr. Wm. Crookes,
F.R.S., and there were present a party of eight or ten
ladies and gentlemen known to Miss Cook and her
family, who formed a congenial and harmonious circle,
best calculated to secure the most perfect results, and
we were not disappointed.
Miss Cook’s bed-room, which is of small size, was
made to answer the purpose of a cabinet, and the
audience sat in a parlour adjoining the bed-room, which
was screened by a heavy dark curtain to obscure the
light. The parlour was lighted by gas which was not
put out, but partially raised and lowered at intervals
by Mr. Crookes. My chair and those who sat on each
side of me were placed opposite to the curtain, so that
when it was withdrawn I could see directly into the
entire length of the cabinet. Mr. Crookes invited me
in the first instance to inspect the arrangements, which
were very simple. They had become afraid to put the
medium to sleep upon the bed as they had been accus¬
tomed to do, for fear she should roll off during the
uneasy state in which she sometimes gets during a long
trance, and now there were but two pillows placed on
the floor for Miss Cook to lie upon, and in this position
I saw her with nothing but her ordinary clothing and
and a red worsted shawl thrown over her head.
Before going into the cabinet I stood by her side and
narrowly scrutinised her person and dress.
She is of small figure, handsome countenance,
brunette complexion, with dark eyes and very dark brown
hair.
Her dress was of light blue merino, trimmed with
black velvet, fitting high up in the neck, with just space
enough to show a glittering necklet suspended round
her throat by a band of black velvet; Her ears are
pierced, and she wore earrings. On her feet were ordi¬
nary spring boots.
This is the result of my observations of [her appear¬
ance and dress, the moment before she laid her head on
the pillows and entered the trance state.
Mr. Crookes stood by the entrance and listened for
any sound from within. In about ten or fifteen minutes
we heard Katie’s voice, and then saw her draw aside a
small portion of the curtain timidly and show her head.
Encouraged by Mr. Crookes, she stepped out into the
room, and at once saluted the ladies and gentlemen
present, and in turn I came in for recognition with an
arch, “ How do you do, Mr. Ben ?” In contrast to
the dress of the medium, the entire appearance of Katie
was singularly striking. I have given up, as I ex¬
plained in my last letter on this subject, my former
hypothesis of the “ double” in this particular case, in
deference to the proofs given by Mr. Crookes and Mr.
Yarley, which establish in the most satisfactory and
conclusive manner that this figure and the medium,
though doubtless connected in some mysterious way,
and much alike in features, are two distinct indivi¬
dualities, and I am now about to add my testimony in
support of the opinion of those distinguished members
of the Royal Society.
The dress of Katie was, as I had seen before, of pure
white, differing only from my former description of it
by having in this instance short sleeves; it was as
nearly as possible like that presented in the photograph,
with Dr. Gully holding her hand. Her feet were
naked, and I am told they always are so presented.
How is this ? Can they not materialise leather ? Her
movements were extremely agile, and singularly grace¬
ful. By the way in which she took the arm of Mr.
Crookes and stooped to pick up a fan she had dropped,
which she had been using in the most natural manner,
and the way in which she stepped across the room (not
gliding, as I had seen before), and at one time resting
her head on her hand with her elbow leaning against
the door; then seating herself on the floor, resting her
elbow on the chair, all gave one the idea of a supple,
flexible-limbed young woman of graceful and child¬
like habits. When she inquired whether any of us
wished to ask her questions, I took out of my pocket
an envelope containing a cabinet-sized photograph, and
holding it for her to take, she stepped across the room
and took it from me and exclaimed, “This is Dr.
Gully and my likeness ! What do you want me to do
with it?” “Write,” I said, “your name, and any
message you have to give me on the back of it that I
may keep it in remembrance of this evening.” Borrow¬
ing my pencil she wrote: “ Annie Morgan, usually
known as Katie King. To her dear friend, Mr. Ben.
May 9th, 1874.” When it was read aloud some one
said that was too familiar, and she was reminded that
there were others of the same name known to her,
upon which she asked for the card to be returned, and
wrote ; “ Mr. Ben is B. Coleman, Esq.”
During the evening she frequently went behind the
curtain to look after her medium, as she said, and once
whilst she was there, Mr. Crookes raised the curtain,
Mat 15, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
235
and lie and I and four others who sat by me saw at
one and the same time the figure of Katie, clad in Tier
white dress, bending oyer the sleeping form of the
medium, whose dress was blue, with a red shawl over her
head. This incident was repeated with an increased
amount of gas-light, which went streaming into the
inner room, and thus the fact is at length established
that both the living form of Miss Cook and the spirit
form of the materialised Katie were seen by Mr.
Crookes, myself, and others, twice on the evening of
9th day of May last.*
I believe, too, that Mr. Crookes will yet get a photo¬
graph on one plate of both the medium and Katie, and
thus all objectors outside these circles will be answered.
But whether this additional evidence occurs or not
we had in this particular evening the most satisfactory
proof of the distinct individuality of Katie, who is
taller than the medium, is a blonde with blue eyes, ears
that are not pierced, well formed finger nails, which
Miss Cook has not, and hair of a golden hue.
As her hair during the first part of the evening was
banded and showed too little for those sitting at a dis¬
tance, I asked Mr. Crookes to decide upon its colour ;
he said “ Her hair is light.” Katie interrupting, said,
“ Oh, I will show you my hair,” and in a few moments
she presented her head with the most luxuriant golden
curls hanging over her shoulders; and turning her head,
we saw that the ringlets were equally long and beauti¬
ful at her back; and to give Mr. Crookes proof of its
reality, Katie asked him to take hold of it at the back
and pull it, which he did, and pronounced that it was
apparently human hair growing on her head.
Indeed, the natural life-like character of the
surroundings of this living form puzzles all who wit¬
ness it:
It would be much better for all who oppose and have
pinned their faith to the cry of imposture, “ delusion,”
or “ psychic force,” to stick to their guns rather than
admit the facts which I assert are true. Bor if they
surrender, the slanderous tongue of some and the
sceptical thoughts of many would be hushed at once.
But happily Mr. Crookes, whose boldness in the
cause of truth all men must approve, has cut the
ground from under his own pet theory of “ psychic
force,” unless, indeed, he has some yet unrevealed
metaphysical hypothesis to make the discoveries he has
recently promulgated fit in with that force to the ex¬
clusion of Spiritualism. And from what I think I
know of his feelings I recommend the Tyndalls, Hux¬
leys, and Carpenters, his associates in the Eoyal Society,
not to be alarmed for the present. He has not run
away from science to adopt what they believe to be a
delusion. He has not got so far as that yet, they may
be assured. He has only given a staggering blow to
the gross calumny which some Spiritualists have ven¬
tured to promulgate against the character of a young
girl, carefully nurtured and well educated, whose only
crime in their eyes is that she proved to be, in the
naturally progressive character of the Spiritual un¬
folding, a greater medium than any who have gone
before her.
Two other incidents followed, which closed the
seance, after more than two hours’ duration.
Katie likes admiration, and as all present could say
without flattery that her flowing curls were beautiful,
* As the face of the medium was not visible on this occasion, we do not
see that this was a test manifestation, although it seems seance after seance
to bo developing into one.—Ed.
several asked her for a portion of them as a souvenir.
She took her hair playfully in her fingers, as if dis¬
posed to grant the request, but did not do it. She
ultimately, however, did what was quite as strange;
she consented to part with portions of her dress,
and, taking up her skirt in a double fold, Mr. Crookes
having lent her his scissors, she cut two pieces out of
the front part, leaving the holes, one about an inch,
and the other two or three inches in circumference,
visible to our eyes, and then, as if by magic, but with¬
out the conjuror’s double boxes- or any attempt at con¬
cealment, she held that portion of the dress in her
closed hand for a minute or two, and showed that the
holes had disappeared, and that the dress was again
entire.
The pieces, a portion of which I have, are apparently
strong ordinary white calico. Finally, I asked Katie
if she would allow me to kiss her, and I walked across
the room with her consent, and gave her a kiss, on a
cheek that was warm, smooth, and yielding to the
pressure.
I am, as all the readers of this journal know, a con¬
firmed Spiritualist of just twenty-one years’ standing,
during which time I have the satisfaction of knowing
that I accepted the faith from which I have never
faltered.
After a very few days’ experience, and never having
been afraid to state my convictions to the world, I have
been the means of converting many sceptics to the
truth of Spiritualism. I believe Mr. Crookes himself
received his earliest information from me about seven
years ago, and witnessed some of the best phenomena
of that day in my presence. He is now working very
hard, and so far very successfully to establish, not
Spiritualism, but whatever these strange facts may lead
him to. But if, perchance, after seven years racking of
his scientific brains to find a solution for these pheno¬
mena from the Boyal Society’s stand point, he should,
after all, be obliged to accept them as Spiritualism pure
and simple, what will be his advantage over unscientific
men like myself, who by the exercise of our common
sense came to the right conclusion in as many days as
he and others have taken years to come to a decision ?
Well, I won’t press Mr. Crookes to answer this ques¬
tion. at present. But I advise him to press on and
solve the problem as speedily as possible, lest Mr.
Serjeant Cox, or some other scientific savan, should rush
in from the threshold at which they are now standing,
and rob my excellent pupil of the honours which I
think are in store for him.
Me. CeeaiiD Massey will be back in England in two
or three weeks’ time, and we believe that the question of invit¬
ing him to deliver a few lectures on Spiritualism in America,
is under consideration by the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
In the quotation from one of Professor Tyndall’s articles,
at the head of the last letter by Mr. H. G. Atkinson, which
was published in these pages, the word printed “master”
should have been “matter.” In the same number the
Cambria Daily Leader was stated to have been a few years
ago “the only paper in Wales;” it should have been—“the
only daily paper.” 1
lx one of the last letters of Judge Edmonds to the editor
of the Banner of Light, he said:—“ I regard Mr. Crookes’s
recent action in England as very important. They seem to
have done in England what we were unable to bring about in
this country. They have there made science give attention to
the subject, and such publications as that of Mr. Crookes and
the Dialectical Society will bring into our ranks numbers who
would otherwise keep aloof.
me
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 15,1874.
EXPERIENCES IN SPIRITUALISM.
No. II.
BY THE LATE T. W. EDMONDS, JUDGE OE THE SUPREME
COURT, NEW YORK.
I remark, en passant, that in my detail I am confining my¬
self to an account only of the new features that were from time
to time presented, purposely omitting those which were a mere
repetition of what I have already mentioned, and some of
which occurred at almost every interview.
About this time, as I was sitting one day alone at work in
my library, the thought suddenly intruded itself upon my
mind, that I must go to a person who was named, and mes¬
merise him, and I would receive a communication from a
spirit in a higher condition than any who had yet communed
with me. Now, as I had no acquaintance with that person,
never having seen him but once, and then hardly exchanged
ten words with him, and as I did not know how to mesmerise
him, never having seen the operation but once, I disregarded
the impression. In a day or two it came again with great dis¬
tinctness, and both times when I was not thinking of the
subject, but my mind was intently engaged on something else.
After it had come the second time, I sought a rapping medium,
and inquired about it. I was told that it was not, as I had
supposed, my own imagining, but a direction that it would
be well for me to heed. I accordingly sought an interview
with the person named, who was a clairvoyant, a rapping
medium, and a medium for physical manifestations. At the
appointed time I met him, with a party of six or eight others,
none of whom had I ever seen before. And much to my
surprise I received a communication pointed directly to two
trains of thought in my mind; one [that had been there
some twenty-five years, and another that had been there for
some two or three months, but neither of which had I ever
uttered, or even hinted at, to mortal man or woman. For
some time they were spoken to as distinctly as if I had pro¬
claimed them with a loud voice. I was startled, for here was
to me evidence from which I could not escape, that my most
secret thoughts were known to the intelligence that was deal¬
ing with me. There was no avoiding the conclusion. Reason
upon it as I would, imagine what solution I might, there was
the fact plainly before me, and I knew it. The conversation
to the others present was an enigma. They did not under¬
stand it, nor could they, unless they had known the secret
thoughts which furnished the text.
I confess this staggered me, and the more I thought upon
it, the more inexplicable it seemed. I procured books on
mesmerism, to see if I could find a solution, but still the fact
—the fact was there. And, as if to confound all my specula¬
tions on the subject, on one occasion soon after that, when I
was on my way to meet with a medium, I determined in my
mind to ask a particular question, but I got no chance to ask
it, yet it was answered by a direct communication made to me
as distinctly as if I had uttered it aloud, yet no human being
knew my purpose.
This, which was then so new and surprising to me, has since
been of such frequent occurrence with me, and with others,
that it has become manifest as one of the strongest and most
marked features of the whole matter—one which very soon
becomes palpable to the inquirer. -
The only thing in my next interview worthy of notice, in
this connection, was this: After it was over, I was standing in
the hall, near the foot of the stairs, receiving a pamphlet from
one of the gentlemen. The raps came on the stairs as the
medium descended, calling for the alphabet and spelling out a
sentence, which directed me what to do with respect to an
article in the book.
At my next interview, at which were present at least a
dozen people, the communication was through a rapping and
a clairvoyant medium. After it was over there came the most
remarkable physical manifestations which I had yet witnessed.
I extract from my journal the account I then wrote of it,
giving only the initials of the persons present.
“ The scene that ensued, it is difficult for me to describe.
It was new to me, and not without a sensation of awe.
“ The rappings directed Gr. and F. to stand by one door,
and M. and K. by another. As soon as they had taken their
stations, there were heavy poundings on the doors as if with a
fist, and distant responses, as if in other parts of the house.
The bell was taken out of M.’s hand and rung, and then put
back again. This occurred several times in the course of the
evening.
f M. and K. were then slapped as with a hand on the
shoulders. This extended then to others at that end of the
room.
“ Those four persons were then directed through the rap¬
pings to return to the table. They did so, standing two on
each side of it. The table, which was a long dining-table,
then moved backward and forward several times. I had my
arm resting upon it, and I could not be mistaken. Those four
were then directed to get together in one part of the room,
and several things were then done to their persons. Pins
were taken out of the girl’s hands, their hands were lifted and
placed together, &c.
“ They then returned to the table and passed around it, the
rappings telling them when to stop, and when to go on.
“ The slappings on the shoulders then resumed. The bell
was again rung. Mrs. R.’s comb was] taken out of her hair,
and the hair suffered to fall on her shoulders.
“ I was touched a number of times, first in my neck, by a
gentle push, as with the ends of the fingers. This was re¬
peatedly done. I was patted on the head many times as if
by a gentle female hand. As I sat by the table, I felt a hand
gently laid on my head and moved around, and the last touch
was several gentle taps on my arm.
“ These touchings of me were different from those experi¬
enced by the others. To me, they were very gentle, and im¬
perceptible to others, while the others were loud and percep¬
tible to all in the room.
“ The clothes of G. and E. and M. were pinned together in
several places, and K. and M. were tied together by the arms
with a pocket handkerchief.”
And now what shall I do ? I have occupied a good deal of
this paper—as much as I can well spare—with the details of
my personal experience, and yet I have not advanced through
the first two months of my investigations. Shall I give more
of it, and where shall I stop ? The ensuing twelve months
were full of the same things, often repeating what I had
already witnessed, and nearly always displaying some new
feature. Can it be necessary that I should detail them all, or
indeed any more of them? Things of the same character
have happened to others—and some far more extraordinary
than anything I have witnessed. Many of them have already
been given to the public in various forms $ and there is not a
neighbourhood in the United States where any attention has
been paid to the subject, where similar things have not
occurred, and can be testified to by persons whose testimony
would be received in any human transaction, so that nothing
short of wilful blindness can prevent their being seen and
recognised.
It cannot be necessary or wise that I should occupy much
more time on this part of the subject. I will, therefore, give
only one or two instances more, and pass to what I regard as
far more important.
On the 28th of March, 1851, I was one of a party of ten
who were directed, through the rappings, to stand up in a
circle in the middle of the room, and every one present was
touched by this unseen power. Some were pulled down upon
the sofa ; one was pulled nearly on to the floor; one had her
feet shoved from under her so that she nearly fell; a shawl
was snatched from a lady’s shoulders and thrown on to the
floor; I was repeatedly touched on different parts of my per¬
son ; chairs were pulled about, and a small table slid along of
itself several feet on the carpet.
< On the 23rd of April, 1851', I was one of a party of nine
who sat around a centre table, on which a lamp with glass
pendants was burning, and another lamp was burning on the
mantel-piece. And there, in plain sight of us all, that table
was lifted at least a foot from the floor, and shaken backward
and forward as easy as I could shake a goblet in my hands.
Some of the party tried to stop it by the exercise of theit
strength, but in vain, so we all drew back from the table,
and by the light of those two burning lamps, we saw that
heavy mahogany table suspended in the air. There was no
mistake about it, and there were those present who were then,
and are yet, unbelievers in spiritual intercourse.
On the 7th of May, 1851,1 was present with eight or ten
others, when the loose pieces of paper on the table were taken
from it, thrown into our faces, and on to the floor, and once,
during the silence of one of the pauses, we distinctly heard
the sound as of a pen writing on paper. We gathered up
carefully all the pieces of paper, and examined to see if there
was any writing on them. But we found none. Then it was
spelled out to us through the rappings, " Look under the
table.” We did so, and there found a small piece of cartridge
paper, on which had been recently written some hieroglyphio
characters, unintelligible to us; and a remarkable feature of
May 15, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
237
the transaction was, that there was no pen or ink in the room,
yet the characters were written in ink, and evidently recently.
One more instance and I have done with my detail of mere
physical manifestations. I had been told through a medium
to publish a statement of what I had witnessed; I declined to
do so until I had more evidence, because I should thus pledge
my character to the truth of this thing, and that I could not
do, until I was perfectly satisfied myself. I was asked what
would satisfy me ? I said, Evidence that this was not the
product of mortal agency, evidence of the identity of -those
who professed to be dealing with me, and evidence that it was
for a good and not an evil purpose. I was asked what evidence
I would have ? I replied, I cannot say, for if I do, I tell you
what to do. The answer was, You shall have evidence that
shall satisfy you.
It was on the 21st of May, 1851, that the evidence came,
and in such a form as to leave no doubt on my mind as to
two of the points of my inquiries. It is impossible for me to
give an adequate conception of what I then witnessed. But
as before said, as I am not aiming to convince others, and
merely relating how I was convinced, I regret my inability the
less. Yet what I can do to describe the scene, I will.
It was on an evening when the circle to which I belonged
was to meet. As I was going toward the house in the east
part of the town, I met the medium, his sister, and two or
three others going toward the west part [of the town. He
told me that he had received instructions through the rappings
to go to Mr. Partridges, and he was accordingly on his way.
He told me also, that when he had got ready to go, he had
been told to wait fifteen minutes, and he had done so. I per¬
ceived that if it had not been for those directions I should
have missed him, and should not have known where he was.
And inasmuch as I was on my way to his house at the time
he received those directions, neither he nor I could imagine
any other reason for them than to have him meet me. I
accordingly determined to go with him. We found there a
party of at least twenty persons, among whom were five
mediums. We were surprised to meet each other; for we
met without preconcert, and found upon inquiry, that we had
been assembled by directions given to different persons in like
manner with those given to the medium whom I accompanied.
For three hours I there witnessed physical manifestations
which demonstrated to me beyond all doubt that they were
not produced by mortal hands, and were governed by an in¬
telligence out of and beyond those present. It is vain for
any one to say we were deceived. I knew that I was not, and
so did every one of that large party. So is it vain to say the
mediums did it, for they were actually more frightened at what
occurred than we were, who were spectators, and essayed in
vain to stop it. Then it was that the chair ran back and forth
on the floor, the bell was rung over our heads, and one of the
party was forcibly torn by an invisible power from my grasp,
in spite alike of his strength and mine. Through one of the
mediums we were told, “ Ho to the front door and let them
ill,” and when the door was opened an unexpected addition to
the party, not one of whom was known to the medium, was
found ascending the steps, but had not reached the bell. As
I stood in a corner where no one could reach my pocket, I felt
a hand thrust into it, and found afterward that six knots had
been tied in my handkerchief. A bass viol was put into my
hand and rested on my foot, and then was played upon. A
violin was placed in my other hand, and likewise played upon.
Another violin was hung around my neck by one of its strings,
and I was struck frequently with a fiddle-bow. My person
was repeatedly touched, and a chair pulled from under me.
I felt on one of my arms what seemed to be the grip of an
iron hand. I felt distinctly the thumb and fingers, the palm
of the hand, and the ball of the thumb, and it held me fast
by a power which I struggled to escape from in vain. With
my other hand I felt all around the spot where the pressure
was, and satisfied myself that it was no earthly hand that was
thus holding me fast, nor, indeed, could it be. No earthly
hand could thus hold me, for I was as powerless in that grip
as a fly would be in the grasp of my hand. And it continued
with me until I had tried every means I could devise to get
rid of it, and not until I thoroughly felt how powerless I was,
did it leave me.
But enough of this in all conscience; I have said sufficient
to give an idea of the general character of what I was witness¬
ing two or three times a week, with only occasional interrup¬
tions, for more than a year. And how could I help believing
that what I saw was not the product of mortal agency ? I
was not a believer seeking confirmation of my own notions. I
was struggling against conviction. I have not stopped to
detail the precautions which I took to guard against decep¬
tion, self or otherwise. Suffice it to say, that in that
respect I omitted nothing which my ingenuity could devise.
There was no cavil too captious for me to resort to, no scrutiny
too rigid or impertinent for me to institute, no inquiry too
intrusive for me to make. So much so, that it was not unfre-
quently that believers were unwilling to meet with me, because
of my querulousness.
These things did not all occur in the presence of the same
medium or the same party of investigators, but often in the
presence of mediums and others whom I had never met
before, and who did not and could not know what I had
witnessed.
MRS. BIRD’S MEDIUMSHIP.
A pew days ago, at a seance held at the house of
Mr. Earl Bird, 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton,
Mrs. Bird, who is a non-professional and good trance
and clairvoyant medium, went into the trance state,
and while under spirit control spoke as follows on the
subject of “ Ambition ” :—
It is a fruitless effort. The more I struggle, the greater is
the difficulty. How came I to be fettered and bound by so
many chains? Shall I never be free? I make continual
efforts to release myself, and more painful grow the bonds. I
free my feet and think to walk, yet lo, the coil which fettered
them fastens itself upon my arm like a winding serpent,
inflicting torture, till I bum with fury and rage, and wish to
die, but cannot.
I am weary with making fruitless efforts, and succumb to
my fate.
I see myself reflected everywhere,—a hideous form wound
about and around. I have looked at it so many times that I
ought to be able to describe it, but cannot; for the cords live
that encase me, and take many shapes. I bite at them in my
fury, and it pains me again.
What am I ? Man ? Serpent ? or Dragon ? I shrink from
my own reflection, and pray that the sight may be taken
away; yet there it is still—staring ! staring! It is my dress;
these living cords are woven together, interlaced, and made to
fit me, ah, too closely. In my despair I say I’ll make no
further effort, but hide myself in yonder cave from the gaze
of my fellows; there no light shall reflect my image, and
there I will try to bury my shadow, for my eyes burn with
looking at it.
Long have I sought to evade this hideous reflection, but it
still racks my brain. I lose in some measure this sight of
myself as I now am, but there is no rest, for images of the
past, and the sight of my other self come back to me. Lo,
afar off I see myself as I was.
A boy at home—an only child. Can I not pass over this ?
Must I look at myself when but six years old ? My mother’s
hand is upon my head, her admiring look in my face; my
father is proud of me and indulgent; I have all the house at
my feet. Did I ever think in these days ? Yes, I thought I
would be great and powerful some day. I was ambitious even
then, and had determined to do certain things when I should
come to power. Did my mother read my ambitious thought ?
Oh, why did she not deal a death-blow at that viper which
ever and anon showed itself to her? Ah, fond, foolish
mother, where art thou? Shall we meet again some day?
We shall.
I see myself at college. I go through every branch of my
education there; and growing, fanned, and made stronger by
that system of education, the old evil again, the viper, fed
and nursed, has grown with my growth. I have now but one
desire, to free myself from all ties and restraints, and follow
this one purpose, to be, what ? A man I thought, a monster
I know.
Ah, there was high festival that day. Many made pretence
to happiness, many were appointed to seats of honour; and on
some their robes sat well, for they were worldly men. I was
their king. They had crowned me, and it ought to have been,
and it was, the happiest day of my life. What followed ?
What followed ? Only my own heart knows. Known only to
my own soul, and deeply written on my own conscience, are
the deeds that followed. I go over them, over and over again.
I see as nobody else can see the fruits of my ambition. I
struggle through scenes on battle fields, amongst the slain,—I
walk over them as in a horrid nightmare, and look till my heart
sickens at the forms of horror and despair, wretchedness and
woe—the fruit of my ambition—the result of my power.
238
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 15, 1874.
Fed by success this serpent grew greedy for more and more,
till I only knew one feeling, to conquer and to gain. Ah, how
this viper fed and grew, until I became cruel, starving out
every spark of sympathy, love, and kindness in my nature,
until I had woven for myself this dress of living cords ; each
drawing closer upon me, and fastening tighter as I struggle to
be free. I forbear, for fear of injuring your medium, to pass
through, or enter into, the scene of my death. Let it suffice
that I was cut off without satisfying the greedy feeling that
possessed me, for it knows no satisfying. Passing away in
darkness into the state which I have described to you to-night
I have for a long period resisted and turned a deaf ear to my
spirit guides and instructors, trying by desperate efforts to
free myself, rather than humble myself, to be instructed by
others—never forgetting that I had been a king ; and refused
to serve and obey.
Are these things unwelcome to your ears ? Would you fain
shut out these voices from the spirit-world because they are
not pleasant to listen to ? I pray you do not, for we are nearer
to your earth than to heaven, and can sometimes be consider¬
ably helped at what you called spirit-circles.
If by these means I may break one fetter or unloose one of
the many cords that bind me, surely your Christian charity
will extend thus far to give ear, and^weAhere may ever have
cause to thank you for our hearing.
THE EOYAL INSTITUTION.
THE AIR WE BREATHE.
Mr. Walter Noel Hartley, F.C.S., delivered the last of a
series of four lectures at the Boyal Institution, on “ The
Atmosphere and its ^Relations to Life,” on Thursday last week,
and on this occasion dealt with the subject of the floating
particles of solid matter which are always present in air. He
said that when examined under the microscope, the floating
dust in air is found to consist of mineral, carbonaceous, and
organic or living particles. One way of collecting these
particles, adopted by Dr. Angus Smith, was to place a little
absolutely pure distilled water in a large stoppered bottle, the
upper part of which bottle was filled with the air of the dis¬
trict; on shaking up the air and water together, floating
particles were always to be found |in the water after¬
wards, and the largest of them could be seen even with a
common lens. Another way of collecting them wasfto plug a
tube with cottonwool, and then draw the air through the tube
by means of an aspirator; the particles of dirt in the [air
would then lodge in the wool, and could be washed out into
distilled water. A third plan was similarly to plug a tube with
gun cotton, and after catching the particles, to dissolve the
gun cotton in a mixture of alcohol and ether. The nature of
the floating particles varies in different localities ; there are
always cotton fibres near habitable places, also starch granules,
and sometimes fragments of hair, and fine bread crumbs;
there are also organised particles, and soot. From the
character of the particles in different places, it is possible to
ascertain approximately what is going on in the neighbour¬
hood ; particles of salt are always found in the air near the
sea; near Newcastle, St. Helens, and similar manufacturing
towns, there are always small crystals of sulphate of soda,
in consequence of the operations carried on in the vicinity, of
making carbonate of soda from common salt. Near Man¬
chester there are always cotton fibres in the air, and sometimes
particles of iron. In mines there is much floating sulphate of
potash, and crystals of nitre, from the gunpowder explosions.
At one time it was generally believed that living organisms
came from dead matter. One alchemist of antiquity told how
to make mice from sawdust collected in an old church; and it
was well known that living organisms soon appeared in putres-
cible substances. Some most elaborate experiments had been
made of late by Dr. Bastian, some of which had been carried
a step further by himself (Mr. Hartley), proving that certain
putrescible liquids will keep unchanged for years in pure air,
but directly ordinary air, containing floating particles, is
admitted, putrefaction begins, and living organisms begin to
appear, being developed from the germs floating in the atmos¬
phere. All the evidence tends to prove that living organisms
are generated only by other living organisms, and not by dead
matter. The lecture was largely illustrated by experiments.
The question of “ Spirit Identity” is perhaps the most
important one at present demanding solution by thinking
Spiritualists. We should be glad to receive authentic evidence
hearing upon the subject.
atamspontieuce.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS.
Sir,—Last autumn I had an opportunity of inspecting closely
the interesting 'series of photographs at Mr. John Beattie’s, in
Bristol, and resolved, after returning to Manchester, to try the
power in this direction in my small but very successful circle,
the members of which were Madame Louise, Miss N. Hesketh,
Alfred Firman, and myself. I procured a camera, &c., and
arranged things in such a manner, that from the polishing of
the newly bought plates to the very last touch in the develop¬
ing room, no finger could interfere, so that literally the whole
of the operations were executed by my own hands. To cut off
all possibility of collusion in respect to secret preparations in
the room, I arranged the sittings in my own room. Finding that
the most powerful manifestations generally took place when
we sat in the same manner, I managed to uncover the lens by
a long cord, without leaving my place among the others.
After several sittings without result, we got in two others, on
seven consecutive exposures, an impression of an additional
form, which we recognised as the same shown in many
seances in the cabinet. The definition is very weak; the light
being variable, and perhaps the focus disturbed by the tripod
stand shifting slightly.- But the evidence of the mysterious
power seems to me beyond a doubt.
Now I wish to draw attention to some points of importance.
I took several impressions with the medium alone, or two and
three of us in different combinations, before and after these
successful sittings, without the slightest trace of a mark. In
an evening seance, I asked our invisible friends whether I
might invite a very clever photographic friend to join our
number. Most emphatically it rapped out “ No, don’t intro¬
duce fresh influence.” This seems to me a lesson worth
noticing, and I believe, if readers who are members of a
circle (especially where materialisations are obtained) would
take these hints, and try similar experiments, my report
might soon fade away by the side of more remarkable results,
and spirit photography be not dependent on a very few gifted
mediums, but have a wider field. Christian Reimers.
2, Ducie Avenue, Manchester.
spirit forms .
Sir,—As additional testimony to the letter of Mr. Black¬
burn in to-day’s Spiritualist, I may state that on Monday
last, the 4th instant, I had the pleasure of being present
at Mr. Henry Cook’s, Hackney, when Eatie, in the second
part of the seance, kindly granted my desire to enter the
cabinet with her, to see or touch the medium. She took me
by the hand into the inner chamber, and while still holding
my left hand, allowed me to take the hand of the entranced
medium, Miss Cook, with my right hand, when Katie’s touch of
my left hand instantly left me. The medium uttered faint
meanings in her sleep, while I gently passed my hands over
her form from head to feet, and then returned to the circle,
when Katie almost instantly made herself visible to wish us
good night. Katie was robed in the purest white, while the
medium, Miss Cook, was dressed in black velvet. I am pre¬
paved to vouch for the accuracy of this account.
B. W. PycocK.
21, Little Trinity-lane, Cannon-street, E.C.
May 8th, 1874.
MRS. DICKINSON’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—I had last week the pleasure of a private sitting for
the first time with Mrs. Julia B. Dickinson. The visit was
quite unexpected by that lady, and quite unpremeditated by
me, as far as regarded that particular time, yet the results
were so remarkable, that I shall feel greatly obliged if you will
allow me this opportunity of publicly expressing my admira¬
tion of Mrs. Dickinson’s powers, and my regret at her inten¬
tion of leaving London very shortly, though not so soon as
was announced last week. I had heard of Mrs. Dickinson’s
capacity for healing and giving written prescriptions, but her
clairvoyance of affairs at a distance was a surprise to me.
She described with precision and accuracy the domestic and
business circumstances of a brother of mine in Queensland,
his relations to persons in business in London, and his future
movements. These were certainly not suggested by any thought
of mine, and are what I should have least expected, but of course
May 15, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
239
the truth of the prophecy remains to be proved. Other
instances relating to personal and private matters were
equally remarkable. The prophetic gift is of course as
uncertain as it is rare, and prophesies through mediums should
be accepted with great reservation, but we may expect that
this great faculty, which seems to have been much cultivated
in early historic times, and among certain nations, will receive
much greater development, and become sufficiently certain to
be of great use and benefit to mankind. I do not know
whether it is often exercised by Mrs. Dickinson; I believe she
confines herself chiefiy to medical and business affairs, for
which my own experience justifies me in recommending her.
May 5th, 1874. Emilv Kislingbuky.
“ TUNING THE SPIRITUAL PIDDLE.”
Sib,—It is sad to see from the article which appears else¬
where under this heading, that while the sharp points of truth
have pierced the sensitive skin of the writer, and sting him to
the quick, the only result has been to make him kick yet more
against the pricks, and that he still refuses to adopt the only
means by which he could clear his character, if I had falsely
accused him, namely, to let me send him my detailed state¬
ment for publication, and to answer it at his leisure.
The fact that he does not do this proves clearly that he
knows that what I have written is true, and that he could not
clear himself. Algernon Joy.
25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OE SPIRITUALISTS.
Sib,—You have been misinformed about our subscriptions.
Of seventy-six members who have paid, or stated the intended
amount, two give £25 per annum. The next largest annual
subscription is one of £3 3s. We have received a life subscrip¬
tion of £6, and one of £5 5s., also a donation of £10 10s.
May 12th, 1874. Algebnon Joy, Hon. Sec.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Sir,—Will you allow me through your columns to address
the following few words to the public on a subject of universal
interest ?
My Countrymen,—Let me earnestly entreat you, in the
name of great numbers now suffering persecution, to come to
the front and challenge such an investigation into recent
incarcerations of Spiritualists, as such, as shall definitively
settle the question whether priestcraft and medical despotism
shall or shall not override the land. I was myself incarcerated
and otherwise restrained as a lunatic for eighteen months, on
the sole ground of claiming to be a passive or automatic
writer. Mrs. , at Plymouth, and others, too numerous to
name, have been and are constantly incarcerated for speaking
of spiritual visions. In short, numbers are being daily severed
from all usefulness and enjoyment in this life, because they
claim communion with a higher.
In June, 1871, two Commissioners in Lunacy, sitting in
solemn judgment on a patient at Hanwell, ruled that all
“Spiritualists are mad.” What wonder, then, if the medical
profession, fortified by that ruling, is ever ready to certify a
Spiritualist insane. I need scarcely tell you that such a state
of things is subversive of all progress, for as Spiritualism is
banned to-day, so may any other novelty in religion or
science be banned to-morrow. I need not tell you how every
onward step in humanity’s progress has been so banned, nor
how of the Greatest Who ever trod this earth it was said,
“ He is beside Himself.” Let them say it of us if they will, as
the prejudiced have said it of all innovators; but when an
irresponsible board and a body of doctors, having enormous
pecuniary interest in multiplying the incarcerated, proceed to
shut up all who differ from them in opinion, it is surely time
for freeborn Britons to cry, “ Hold, enough! ” We purpose
shortly providing opportunities of doing so, and earnestly
trust that public opinion in favour of liberty of conscience
will then be unequivocally expressed. Louisa Lowe.
Honorary Secretary of the Lunacy Reform Association,
64, Berner’s-street.
[If Mrs. Lowe knows any instances in winch sane persons are incar¬
cerated as lunatics, simply because doctors do not understand certain dis¬
orderly phases of undeveloped mediumship, she should furnish the names
and particulars to the British National Association of Spiritualists for
investigation. We cannot publish serious ex parte statements about such
cases.—Ed.]
We expect that the price of The Spiritualist will he
reduced to twopence in the course of nest month.
“GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND.”*
The following is one of the many messages given
through writing mediumship, and published in the
interesting little book, Glimpses of a Brighter
Land:—
Mr dear Friend,—I am permitted to tell you that
where we live all is sunshine and happiness—for sun¬
shine is emblematic of celestial wisdom, and he who
hath celestial wisdom, and holdeth it fast, is happy..
On the spirit leaving the flesh, it assumes a form
similar to the earthly, but not composed of flesh, blood,
and bone ; it is firm and substantial, yet not material,
and therefore can pass through material substances.
There can be no obstacle to the progress of a spirit
form any more than to thought. A spirit is free to
come and go wheresoever it pleaseth, even as “the
wind bloweth where it listeth, and you know not
whence it cometh nor whither it goethyou feel it,
yet it cannot be seen—still, its effects are visible in
swaying branches and agitating leaves. So is our
spirit influence felt, yet unseen of any eye save of
those who have the power, or rather gift, of clairvoy¬
ance. They see us, while others see nothing. No
obstacle impedes our progress; we have but to will,
and, like the electric shock passing through the tele¬
graphic wire, we traverse space; but those whose minds,
wishes, and desires are low, grovelling, and earthy, are
heavy and torpid, and cannot rise: these are spirits
not yet spiritualised, and the materialism clinging to
them weighs them down. They cannot occupy them¬
selves, and hang about their earthly dwellings, and,
desiring to communicate, often seek by noises and
foolish means to attract, attention.
Some are aroused by these means, and thought be¬
gets action. Much then depends on those who receive
these manifestations. If good, serious, and kind, their
example helps to raise the poor spirit, and to develope
its progress; while those who ridicule and only use
the communications and manifestations as idle jokes
and sport, pain and irritatfe the already unhappy spirit,
and goad it on to prove its powers. Then do many
become mad and violent, and endeavour to revenge the
insult received by hideous noises, and throwing about
furniture to terrify those who at first they simply wished
to converse with.
If people could only be induced to consider the mani¬
festations as a means of conversation used by those who
have no other, they would no longer consider it trivial
and ridiculous; many would be soothed by being per¬
mitted to converse, and would be sooner able to rise and
leave earth. Remember, a clever child, if idle, may be
long in learning a lesson, because his mind is not given
to acquiring information, but wanders about to waving
trees, and the sunshine, and the cool babbling brooks
with shining pebbles and blue myosotis; yet when
aroused, and his attention fixed, the lesson is speedily
learnt, and the knowledge is drawn in. Thus do many
poor dull spirits wander on unthinking, not acting, but
clinging to old memories and old well known spots on
earth; their earthliness and materialism make it easier
for them to take in facts from those still on earth, than
from the bright beings who seek to instruct them. They
shrink from the light, and prefer darkness,—wander¬
ing on wearily and drearily—some for months, some
for years, some longer. Many, various, and innumer-
* London; Bailli'cre, Tindall, and Cox.
240   THE SPIRITUALIST. May 15, 1874.
able are the means through which eventually they are
roused and enlightened, and finally rise to greater hap¬
piness,
SPIRIT POETRY.
The following verses are quoted from the Poems of the
Inner Life, given through the trance mediumship of Miss
Lizzie Doten:—
THE SONG OE TRUTH.
From the unseen throne of the Great Unknown,
From the Soul of All, I came;
Not with the rock of the earthquake’s shook,
And not with the wasting flame.
But silent and deep is my onward sweep,
Through the depths of the boundless sky;
I stand sublime, through the lapse of time,
And where God is, there am I.
In the early years, when the youthful spheres,
From the depths of Chaos sprung,
When the heavens grew bright with the new-born light,
And the stars in chorus sung—
To that holy sound, through the space profound,
’Mid their glittering ranks I trod;
For I am a part of the Central Heart,
Co-equal and one with God.
The world is my child. Though wilful and wild,
Yet I know that she loves me still,
For she thinks I fled with her holy dead,
Because of her stubborn will;
And she weeps at night, when the angels light
Their watch-fires over the sky,
Like a maid o’er the grave of her loved and brave;
But the Truth can never die.
One by one, like sparks from the sun,
I have counted the souls that came
From the hand Divine;—all, all are mine,
And I call them by my name.
One by one, like sparks to the sun,
I shall see them all return;
Though tempest-tost, yet they are not lost,
And not one shall cease to bum.
I only speak to the lowly and meek,
To the simple and child-like heart,
But I leave the proud to their glittering shroud,
And the tricks of their cunning art.
Like a white-winged dove from the home of love,
Through the airy space untrod,
I come at the cry which is heard on high,—
“ Hear me, 0 God 1 my God 1 ”
Materialisations in Cleveland, U.S.— Thinking a
few items from my pen might be of interest to your readers, I
present you with an account of a series of seances held in this
city by Charles Bayner (the medium) and myself. Charles
Bayner has been a physical medium for more than twenty
years, and was developed with the Davenport Brothers in
Buffalo, New York. During our stay in this city we have
given six seances for materialisation at No. 206J, Detroit-street,
West Side. At each seance intense interest was manifested
in the recognition of the returning spirits by their friends and
relatives present. It may seem strange to some of your
readers that some of our departed loved ones can return, and
for the time being put on a material form, and be seen and
known by their earthly friends and relatives ; but, neverthe¬
less, such is the case beyond the shadow of a doubt. At each
of the seances from six to twelve spirits materialise and come
out in clear gaslight, and so far, nearly all so appearing have
been recognised by some one present. It is strange beyond
description to see, for instance, a Methodist sister, fresh
from the shades of traditional and religious superstition, come
into our seances, and during the materialisation stand up and
say—“ Brother Samuel, is that you ? Oh, cannot you come
again ? Oh, my God 1 what is this ?” &c. The manifestations
have caused great excitement in the city, especially among
our enemies—the Young Men’s Christian Association of
Cleveland, Ohio—which organisation procured our arrest by
the city police, upon the alleged charge of “ showing without
licence ” (whatever that may mean), and, upon trial, we were
discharged, as it was decided by the court that our seance was
a religious meeting, instead of “ a show.”—A. M. Stoddard,
Cleveland, Ohio, April 16th, 1874.—Bmner of Light,
We learn from an advertisement received just before
going to press, that a public meeting under the auspices of the
British National Association of Spiritualists, will be held next
Thursday afternoon at three o’clock, at the Quebec Institute,
15, Seymour-street, Portman-square, W.
Last Tuesday the following were elected to seats on the
Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists:
Mr. H. T. Humphreys, 4, Trafalgar-square; Mr. John Beattie,
Bristol; Miss Houghton, 20, Delamere-crescent, W.; Mr. W.
D. Meers, lately returned from Dunedin; and Mr. W. Mawson.
Mr. T. M. Simkiss, of Wolverhampton, has sent us a
letter, published by him in the Wolverhampton Chronicle,
setting forth the harm which has been done to the cause of
Spiritualism there by the visit to the town of a person who
has been much “ puffed ” by a contemporary. We decline to
interfere in such disagreeable matters, but recommend pro¬
vincial Spiritualists to inquire of their own friends in London
about the capacity of speakers or mediums before engaging
them.
MRS. TAPPAN’S LECTURES.
ON SUNDAY EYENING, the 17th inst., being the last
lecture of the season, MRS. CORA L. V. TAPP AN will deliver an
ADDRESS under the inspiration of Judge Edmonds, relating his transi¬
tion through the change called death, and his experience in spirit life.
Tickets 2s., Is., or 6d. No free admission on this occasion.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
PUBLIC MEETING for the purpose of advocating a
Reform in the Lunacy Laws will be held in Lawson’s Rooms,
145, Gower-street, London, on Monday evening, May 25.
The Chair will be taken by E. V. KENEALY, ESQ., LL.D., Q.C.
Addresses will be delivered by MRS. LOUISA LOWE, the REV. 0.
MAURICE DAVIES, D.D., the REV. J. PAGE HOPPS (of Glasgow), the
REV. F. R. YOUNG (of Swindon), GEORGE SEXTON, ESQ., LL.D.,
F.Z.S., F.A.S., C. T. PEARCE, ESQ., M.D., M.R.C.S., and other well
known publicists.
SPIRITUALISTS are particularly invited to attend, as questions will
be discussed greatly affecting their position and rights.
■ Chair to be taken at 8 o’clock. Admission, front seats, 2s. 6d; second,
ditto, Is.; Body of the Hall, Free.
Meetings will also be held in the same Rooms on the three following
Monday evenings.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,”
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientific and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz,”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
16 PAGES—ONE PENNY.
F. Pitman, 20, Patemoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any
bookseller.
AAA REWARD.—MASKELYNE & COOKE-
s'.JL*)" an expose
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (IOTA).
London: J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.O.
Price One Penny.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE.
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
J. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• _ Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d, Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra. .
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY.*
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
TI> ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
JL\l House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
THE SPIRITUALIST
in
May 15*/1874.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND CLAIRVOYANTS, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can he consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.)
Terms, One Guinea. Address, 9, Somerset-street, Portman-square,
London, W.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) attends patients and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Gampden-hill, Kensington.
MR. W. Gh SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush,
W. Please write.
Now ready, price Is.,
"XTOTES OF an enquiry into the phenomena
_Ll CALLED SPIRITUAL, DURING THE YEARS 1870—1873. By
WILLIAM CROOKES, F.R.S., &c. Reprinted from the Quarterly Journal
of /Scierecg, January, 1874.
London: Offices of the Quarterly Journal of Science, 3, Horseshoe-court,
Ludgate-hill, E.O.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-
road, London, N.W, To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on appUca-
tion by letter.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London; Longmans,
Green, and Co., Patemoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Yirgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and .'appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a* genuine poetic vein of his own, and
Ids lines have almost always the ring of true metal.”—Standard,
April 1th, 1868.
“ There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’’—London Review, Feb. 15th, 1868.
“The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off.”—Daily News,
March Zd, 1868.
“ Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Oonnington’s translation of the JEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator March 7th, 1868.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.,, Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
or Spiritualists. By Al&ernon Joy (“Iota.”) Printed and published
by T. Scott, 1, Warwick-court, Holborn. Price One Penny.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82, St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery.
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
A WIDOW LADY seeks a Comfortable Home in a
Gentleman’s Family where she could render her services valuable
in any Position of Trust; she is an Experienced Housekeeper, and has
been Oompanion to a Lady. References exchanged. Address H., care of
T. Blyton, 11, Aye Maria Lane, London, E.O.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN-
By EDWARD W. OOX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Amina.
32. The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Nat ural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is. '
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul,
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and not
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury.
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflectiv readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just published,
The second yolume of “whay am i j|
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. OOX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
CHAP.
Preface.
1'. Introductory.
2. Of the Intelligent Motive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.,
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity,
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
OHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. Supersensuous Percep¬
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I.
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II.
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: Longman & Co., Patemoster-row.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. Tojbe had of W, H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Mat 15, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H.Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S.Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Eev. O. Maurice Davies,
D-D-; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.8.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. 'J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; O. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and DrySdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’    
HOW TO DORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on.the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test tbe accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in tfie body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
B
RITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STEBLING.
Bead Offices.-BROW'S, STBEET AND MAESDEN STEEET, MANCHESTER
FIBE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Beturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Eenewed Premiums;
FIDELITY GUAEANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STEEET, LONDON, E.O.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
I
NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming-
ham Daily Mail.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal.in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.”—Spiritualist.
“ The address quite riveted the attention of the audience.”—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.
MB. J. J. MOBSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
The alleged identification of the
ENGLISH NATION WITH THE “LOST HOUSE OF ISBAEL."
By A. L. Lewis, Honorary Secretary, London Anthropological Society.
Being a Paper read before the British Association for the Advancement of
Science (Brighton Meeting), and before the London Anthropological
Society, with the Discussions thereon. Beprinted from Anthropologia,
No. 2 (by permission of the Council of the London Anthropological Society).
With the addition of an Append on the alleged Scriptural Evidence. The
whole showing that Englishmen are not Israelites.
London: Published by the Author, at 4, St. Paul’s-churchyard, E.O, 1874.
Price Sixpence.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PEACTICAL BOOKBINDEE, STATIONEB, BOOKSELLEB, LETTEB-
PBESS, COPPEE-PLATE, AND LITHOGEAPHIO PBINTEE,
ENGBAVEE, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist NewBp&per.
A CIRCLE is in Process of Formation: Sitters of Re¬
fined, Intellectual, Harmonious Natures are required: present
Members Ladies and Gentlemen of good standing. Manifestations of a
high order are promised by the Guardian Spirits for regular, faithful
attendance. Each Applicant will be submitted to the Spirit Guardians for
approval, and it is hoped offence will not be taken upon rejection. Address
by letter, with stamped envelope, for reply, to O. W., 41, Bernard-street,
Bussell-square. Applicants may call, if preferable.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDBESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, FullWood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Ailen, Ave Maria-lane London, E.O.
