Ekoistered as a Newspaper.]
&}[f) JOUf(K®I< 0^ ^^YCSO^OG^ldS^
||p <§Ib.esf Seto^^fk tuHIj Spirihaltsm hx <3xmt §nfam.
THE “ SPIRITUALIST ” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 346, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME; The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
LONDON: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1876. Published weekly ; Price Twopence.
No. 222.—(VOL. IX.—No. 17.)
Contents,
The Scientific Research Committee of the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists. By William H. Harrison ... 193
Death and the After Life. By Eugene Crowell. M.D  194
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—Unconscious
Cerebration—Mr. Serjeant Cox’s Speculations—Ex¬
periments with Clairvoyants—The Natural and Super¬
natural—Remarkable Planchette Messages 19C
The Spiritualists’ Defence Fund    198
Spirit Poetry:—The Victim of Circumstances  198
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances. By G. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci. ... 199
Reception at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s. Dr. Slade and
the Misses Fox      199
Correspondence:—Clairaudients of Genius, Marlowe and
Milton—Are they Occult and Crafty Devices?—Ex¬
periences of Beginners—Dr. Monek and the National
Association of Spiritualists—Dr. Slade—Spiritualism
in Sunderland—Spiritualism in Brighton—Dr. Forbes
Winslow’s Pamphlet—Spiritualism at the East End
—The Ducie Club, Manchester—“ Paid Mediums ” ... 200
The National Association of Spiritualists:—The Second of
the Winter Meetings—Psychological Changes in the
Bodies of Mediums during Seances  202
The National Association of Spiritualists 204
Spiritualism in Liverpool:—^Vagrancy and Witchcraft ... 204
Paragraphs:—Mr. J, J. Morse, 196; Spiritualism in the
North of England, 196; The Credulity of Incredulity,
198 ; A Parable, 198 ; Clairvoyance, 199; Spiritualism
in Dalston, 199; Aid for Mrs. Cogman, 199; Mrs.
Tappan, 199 ; Writing Mediumship 199
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, ana is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S. ; Mr. William
Crookes.-F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenbergj; Mr. H. G. Atkinson. F.G.S.Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owenl(formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey: Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr, George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr, T P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent; (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ross -Church (Florence Marryatj; Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Grder of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) : the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M- Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India) ;
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Gxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.RJ., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D.'H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.p. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residehts in the UnitedjKingdom, 10s. Ipd.
To residents in the United States, '! dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.  ,  
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated peiiods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Eveniog.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
TO PUBLISHERS’ ASSISTANTS.—Wanted,
An intelligent ASSISTANT, aged about 16, experienced
in publishing work, and quick at accounts. Apply, stating
terms, and in own handwriting, to W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
88, GREAT RUSSELL STREET. BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE HEADING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in the same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
libiary. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers hive been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will he
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, W.O.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
N.B.—All new subscriptions paid from this date are avail¬
able to December 31,1877.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This [organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and libiary, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annnm.
PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £29; the second of £10, for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Society.”
The conditions were that the competition should be open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist and F.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom de plume of
M. A., Oxon.; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent in, the two which have been printed were
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; but
the Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publication, holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of the writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O. Price Is. l$d., post free.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A GENERAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
WILD BE HELD IN LONDON, AT
38, GREAT RUSSELL, STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
On the 7th, 8th, and 9th of Febuary, 1877.
The following subjects are offered as suggestions for papers,
but essays on kindred subjects will also be received
1. TheBestTests of the Genuineness of Physical Phenomena.
2. The Scientific Aspects of Spiritualism.
3. Has Spiritualism given any New Truths to the World ?
4. The Evidences of the Identity of Communicating Spirits.
5. The Relation of the Law to Public Mediums.
6. The Aims, Ends, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
7. The Best Means cf Directing Attention to the Importance
of the Private Investigation of Spiritualism.
8. Spiritualism as a Religions Influence.
All papers to be sent to the Secretary, 38. Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, not later than January 20th, 1877; the
papers to remain the property of the Association, subject to i
the conditions laid down in rule 37.
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
SPECIAL APPEAL.
Dr. Slade, a stranger, from the United States, on his
journey to St. Petersburg, is, by an unfortunate sentence of a
magistrate, under condemnation to imprisonment, and punish¬
ment appropriate to a criminal is meted out to him. This
highly gifted sensitive, the greatest medium of the day in
England, is condemned to “ hard labour,” and will, i.a January,
1877, become the forced associate of criminals. Unless we
adopt some effectual means, nothing can prevent this out¬
rageous calamity!
The affair is not individual, but relates to all. The struggle
raised before the nation is between Materialism and Spiritual¬
ism. A more important issue was never before us. Spiritual¬
ism demonstrates, through facts ' occurring around us, the
existence of a future life; while Materialism would deprive
humanity of the precious doctrine of immortality.
When we reflect that the proceedings aimed at Dr. Slade
are really designed more as a blow to the sacred cause of
Spiritualism than against him, shall Spiritualists stand by
and accept the verdict without remonstrance? Will they,
without appeal, suffer him, whom they consider innocent, to
be imprisoned and punished as a felon without a struggle ?
Assuredly not. Conscience being our witness, let us perform
what we know to be right.
The question is before us. According to the measure of
support so will be the penver of the Committee, and their
ability for action.
Donations will be thankfully received by the joint treasurers,
The Executive Committee.
Alexander Galder, 1, Hereford-
square.
/•J. Enmore Jones, Enmore-park,
Honorary Treasurers. ] Wyld, m.Dm 12> Qreftt 0um.
v. berland-pla.ee, W,
SUBSCRIPTIONS.
£ s. d.
Miss Douglas   25 0 0
Mr. G. C. Joad     25 0 0
„ Alexander Calder  10 10 0
“Nicodemus”    25 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn  10 10 0
Mrs. Weldon   10 10 0
Mr. Martin Smith    10 10 0
., Thomas Grant  10 10 0
Miss H    10 0 0
Sir C. Isham, Bart   10 0 0
Mr. A. Tod   10 0 0
„ J. Bulteel    10 0 0
” Lady Jane Grey’’     10 0 0
P. B. J         10 0 0
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood    10 0 0
„ J. N. T. Martheze     7 .0 0
Prince Emile von Wittgenstein   6 0 0
Mr. W. Tebb     5 5 0
„ J. Enmore Jones     5 0 0
„ O. O. Massey       500
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   5 0 0
„ Douglas Bayley   '  5 0 0
S. T. Speer, M.D    5 0 0
Oscar von Hoffman      5 0 0
Dr. George Wyld       5 0 0
„ T. E. Partridge    5 0 0
Mr. N. Kilbum       5 0 0
Mrs. Hennings    5 0 0
Mr. A. T. T. Peterson    ,.... 5 0 0
„ A. Joy     3 0 0
Mr. J. B. Stones    2 12 6
,, H. Withall      2 2 0
Captain James  I  ;  2 2 0
M.A. (Oxon.)......,.',      '.  2 2 0
Mr. O. Pearson      2 2 0
Dr. J. Dixon      2 0 0
Mrs. Lowe        2 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun   > 2 0 0
Mr. A. R. Wallace      2 0 0
„ J. C. Ferguson    2 0 0
Co}iected by J. Bums     12 0
Mr. Geo. Stones    110
„ J. Mould   1 1 0
Dr. K. Cook    110
K . G.  1 1 0
J.R.W     110
Mrs. Maltby       1 1 0
Major Menars     l 1 0
„ W. P. Adshead .1 l 0
Mr. J. O. Ward     11 0
„ E. D. Rogers      110
„ Morell Theobald    110
„ William Theobald    110
„ R. M. Theobald, M.A. 110
„ H.N.   110
„ J. Andre     110
„ James Brown     110
The Misses Withall ...'  jL.vJ • 110
Dr. Baikie        110
Mr. T. P. Barkas.....  110
„ Tucker...     10 0
Mrs. S. Parker     10 0
Miss Douglas Bayley      1 0 0
F. J. T. (collected) 100
Smaller sums         280
From America. ,
Messrs, Colby and Rich 40 0 0
THE SPIRITUALIST
Nov. 24, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-sqnare.'West Brompton, S .'W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, w,
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, 'W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool. , , „ ,Tr
Honywood, Mrs., 52,Warwick-square, S.W. t
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsrmth-biuld-
Mas1sey,’c.'c'., Barrister-at-law, 90, Portland-place, W.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
vYason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richmond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, 1, Cornwall Residences, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, DesmondG.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd,NortU
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kenningtan-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road,Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Brock-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
raad, S.E.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.-
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood. I
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park.'Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Potneroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J:, 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., PosteRestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St, John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H,, 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Oarlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honor ary Treasurer.
Martin E. Smith, Esq., Heatblands; Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes,Esq., 5,Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq , 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test,Esq., M.D.,Union Springs,CayugaCo.,NewTork,U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54,Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Ncwlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emeiy, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot,
SociedadlEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE LIYEEPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
. SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman,'Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
he practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.  ^ 
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office..
Auditors.
Mr, J, H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook.1' Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kisliugbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland. ... ...
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
f he Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness GUldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols aMaranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EIysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-EIysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, EastTndiau Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A. _
A. J. Rikq, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Hfelland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian' Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lmdesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq,, Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany."
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-stfeet, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq.,M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U-S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M A)., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Yernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A,
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Patemoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAVAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 600 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tayistook-square, W.C.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatment by clair¬
voyant. Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and other phases as
usual. Public Seances at 7 p.m, Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, but Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m,
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. HonorCy
Paris.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
/N OOD CHAMBERS or FURNISHED
\JC APARTMENTS to LET. Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
TO LET FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6J
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight
Furnished apartments to let,
consisting of pleasant Sitting Room and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. Near to
Rail and Omnibus. C. P., 102, Clarendon-road, Notting-hiU, W.
TAKEN AWAY BY MISTAKE from the
Ladies’ Cloak Room, at 38, Great Russell-street, on
Wednesday Evening, October 4th, a DOUBLE-GLASS SMEL¬
LING-BOTTLE, with Gilt Stoppers, much valued by the
Owner. If found, it is requested that the same may be left in
charge of the Secretary, at the Reading Room, 88, Great
Russell-street.
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
QPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI-
k3 CAL With MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J,
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiquos, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE TRAPPED MEDIUM; OR, the two
CLEVER SCEPTICS. A pamphlet by Christian
Reimers.—This brochure contains a series of illustrations,
setting forth the exciting adventures of Professor Molecule,
F.R S., X.Y.Z., B.I.G.A.S.8.,and hisassistant, Dr. Protoplaster,
in their investigation of Spiritual Phenomena. It is an excel¬
lent little book for distribution among scientific men and dis¬
believers in Spiritualism generally. A review of it in The
Spiritualist newspaper says that the pamphlet displays real
genius. Price 6d : post free, 6|d. Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Groat Russell-street, London, W.C.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclnsive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms that the strongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found in the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Jr
V OJliU JVIE
uf nnh $f
Kijme. K UMBER JSeVENTEEJH.
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24th, 1876.
THE SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH COMMITTEE OF THE
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.*
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
The Scientific liesearch Committee of the National
Association of Spiritualists has for some time past been
attempting- to obtain what has been characterised as an
(C absolute test,” that is to say, the depression in the vicinity
of a medium of the armature of an electro-magnet inside
a closed box secured by screws and seals, the said depression
being indicated by the ringing of an electrical bell conse¬
quent upon the completion of a galvanic circuit. Several
stances have been held in the attempt to obtain this mani¬
festation, and in the end perseverance will doubtless be
successful. The evidence in favour of this conclusion is
that in the presence of Mrs. Kane it is now a common thing
for the keys of a piano to be played upon while, the lid is
closed and locked, or for the wires to be sounded like those
of a harp. There is strong evidence tending to prove that
this is done by means of a temporarily materialised spirit-
hand inside the piano.
The question I wish to raise is whether the object to be
attained is worth the time and money involved in the pur¬
suit ? Directly the successful point is reached the observers
will certify the facts as they have done many which have
gone before, but will those who are not Spiritualists believe
them ? Not a bit of it. Unanswerable manifestations have
long been before the public, have been certified by competent
observers, and open to the- examination of sceptics so in¬
clined, but the latter, with a few exceptions, have neither
examined for themselves, nor accepted the testimony of those
who have done the work. Should the armature be regularly
depressed at own seances through one particular medium, any
new inquirers will refuse to accept the fact, and will insist
upon haying their own boxes and their own apparatus.
These new articles will probably have to be charged several
evenings in succession by influences or aura from the
medium before the results can be again obtained, for the
same reason that spirits cannot handle new musical instru¬
ments so easily as they do those to which they have been
accustomed. Here then the lack of precision in spiritual
manifestations will step in, causing two or three failures at
all events. Then again the inquirers may insult and dis¬
compose the medium, thereby inducing the very worst con¬
ditions for the evolution of spiritual phenomena. For these
reasons the aim of the Committee does not seem to be worth
the trouble its pursuit involves, and when the end is attained
it will throw no light whatever upon the philosophy at the
root of the phenomena, and to ascertain the philosophy is of
far more importance than to convert disbelievers, who I
should be very glad to see locked out from our seances
altogether, and forced to raise up mediums for themselves in
their own homes. The evils of such exclusion would bear
no proportion to the large amount of good which would re¬
sult ; and the additional peace of mind and absence of worry
to those Spiritualists who are always trying to force down
the throats of their neighbours that which the latter do not
want, would be boons indeed. I think that the right path
for experimentalists to take is to ignore the existence of
outsiders altogether, and to push on Spiritualism as a
science, for it should be remembered that proselytising is not
scientific research, and that any funds contributed to the
Research Committee are not intended to be used for pro¬
selytising purposes.
Experience shows that spiritual manifestations are more
connected with the phantasmagoria of organic life than with
the stabilities of the simpler phenomena of pure physics.
* A paper read last Monday at one of the Winter Meetings of the British
National Association of Spiritualists.
I! The physician, the physiologist, and the mesmerist can make
I more advance in the study of the scientific aspects of
| Spiritualism than-a man whose groove of thought lies ex-
| clusively in light, heat, electricity, and other of the exact
sciences. Real headway can be made by inviting mesmerists
| to these rooms with their sensitives, and getting them to
| pass under review all the phenomena they are able to exhibit.
In a few of the mesmeric experiments which were once
| shown in this room, several of the phenomena of spirit-
(| circles were reproduced; moreover, I succeeded in making
|| a ■•sensitive see an imaginary-spirit possessing the-real name
(| of Sarah Godbold, and I obtained a short trance address
<j through the medium fr6m that hypothetical spirit. By
| experimentally reproducing these phenomena and ascertajn-
yj ing their nature, we shall gradually be able, to recognize
| what occurrences at circles are purely mesmeric and what
11 arise from true spirit action. The physiological aspect of
If spiritual phenomena also presents a. fine field for research.
| Physical mediums, so far as the revelations given through
I their mediumship are concerned, sometimes rise very nearly
| to Heaven and sometimes, descend to. unwelcome proximity
11 to the other place. I think that in these different states
)j they very possibly-resemble the Sensitives who are made, to
| exhibit the facts of phreno-mesmerism, one passion or. the
i other being abnormally excited,, and the mediums not
l\ responsible for their acts. This may explain the scrapes into
[ | which by their erratic -. conduct they sometimes involve both
I themselves and their friends. If it be the case that par-
! ticular organs of the brain are-excited during the occurrence
>1 of certain manifestations, an increase in the temperature of
(| those organs may be expected, and this increase can and
| i should be measured by scientific apparatus. The changes in
| temperature of the body of a medium are markedly , large
| during the course of a seance, yet. they have never been
| accurately observed and tabulated. Here, then, is good
| work to be done; work which would push on our knowledge
|j of the philosophy of the subject; moreover, it would prove
j | a safeguard against imposture. If it be a fact that throi^gh-
| out particular manifestations certain definite changes fake
11 place in the brain and body, and these changes are knpWn,
11 any man who afterwards attempted to produce the phe-
/1 nomena by imposture would be detected, because of the
(l absence of involuntary physiological symptoms which no
(| trickery could imitate.
| By observing and tabulating physiological conditions in
{I relation to phenomena which are already common, og by
j | sitting with a well developed medium for the production of
I new manifestations such as the world has never seen, head-
| way in the investigation of the subject can be made ; but the
j phenomena are. so intimately connected with organic life,
| and bear such a distant relation to pure physics that any-
j body who approaches the facts as he would do those of light
(I and electricity, rather than of medicine, physiology and
J | spirituality, will not find himself much wiser after a long
11 series of observations than he was at the beginning. As the
11 realm of pure physics "is left behind, the domain of the
| organic sciences is entered, and the phenomena of the latter
| are less precise in their nature than those of the former; for
j instance, medicine can never be made an exact science be-
| cause of the multiplicity of ever-varying conditions. In the
| phenomena of Spiritualism we are halfway between the
I realm of physiology and that of trance and visions; we are
i almost dealing with the stuff that dreams are made of. In
| this upper air the man who would attempt to reduce the
j phenomena around him to pure physics may be compared to
j one who would attempt to capture a sunbeam and to carry it
| away in a mousetrap. Before sitting down I should like to
| ask a question which has arisen in the minds of several,
i namely, is the character of our Winter Meetings to be
194
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 24, 1876.
altered because they have been placed under the control of j
the Research Committee ? Is a paper on the religious aspect
of Spiritualism now inadmissible ? May a series of papers in
favour of national organisation and of united action among |
Spiritualists now be read? The discussion of these latter j
points is desirable at this particular time of year, as the |
accession of a considerable number of new members to the
British National Association of Spiritualists resulted from a |
similar course in 1875. I think that better managers of j
these meetings than the members of the Research Committee
cannot be found, if it is generally understood that—as was j
the case last year—there is no limitation as to the choice of j
subjects. The example of the Royal Institution should be j
followed, and ample freedom of choice of subject be given to |
every member.
DEATH AND THE AFTER LIFE.*
BT EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
Db. McCosh, president of Princeton College, an exceed- |
ingly able Scotch Calvinist, said, at the funeral of a Mr. Prior, |
a young man of great promise and excellence :—
“ I do not know that in my lengthened life I have ever j
been in a position in which I felt greater difficulty in |
speaking than I do on this day of cloud and darkness^ and j
trouble, and.,rebuke. I feel as if, instead of speaking to men, j
it would be more appropriate in all of us to be speaking to !
God. I feel as if I could go into his presence and say, j
* Let me talk to Thee of Thy judgments? It may be pre- i
sumptuous, but I feel as if I could venture to say to Him : j
1 What is the meaning of this dispensation ? ’ and yet, when ij
we thus talk to God of His judgments, His only answer j
may be ‘Put trust in Me. What thou knowest not now, j
thou shalt know hereafter.’ ”
The feeling expressed in the above words, and throughout |
the address, does honour to the heart of Dr. McCosh; but j
do not these words produce the conviction that the speaker j
realises little of the future life, and has the frailest hold |
upon it, and hope for those who enter it, and, like the majority !
of those he addresses, is groping almost hopelessly amid the j
mazes of speculative theology? A certain single passage j
from the inspired volume should be sufficient to dissipate at ]
least a portion of this gloom from a Christian’s mind.
“ There shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, j
neither shall there be any more pain.” If the Doctor believes
this to be true, he must believe that the deceased young man,
whom so many mourned, is far happier than he was on earth, j
and if so, how can he say : r I feel as if I could venture to j
say to Him, 1 What is the meaning of this dispensation ? ’ ” h
The consoling truths expressed in such simple and forcible j!
language in the above passage, every intelligent Spiritualist | ]
appreciates; but they have all their sweetness embittered in i
the minds of strictly dogmatic thinkers by the erroneous | j
teachings of semi-barbarous priests, who lived thousands of I
years ago, and whose words are still bearing bitter fruit in j i
Christian churches. J
Here is a lament in the same strain :—
“ For none return from those spirit shores,
Who cross with the boatman cold and pale ; I
We hear the dip of the golden oars,
And 6atch a glimpse of the snowy sail,
And lo ! they have passed from our yearning hearts ; |
They cross the stream and are gone for aye.
We may not sunder the vail apart,
That hides from our vision the gates of day.” i
They do return; they are not gone for ever. The spirit j
of ignorance and gloom inspired the above lines. They have j
been returning in all ages. They return in multitudes to- ||
day. They are all around us, and thousands of the most j
intelligent members of the churches have seen and touched |!
them, and heard them speak. They do return; and all lj
these churches will soon acknowledge it, and this, the most [<
important truth that has ever blessed mankind since the jl
fabled Adam existed in Eden, will be established as an |j
orthodox fact, and upheld by orthodox faith and teachings, j {
As before remarked, it js well for those who have no
knowledge of the life beyond, to rest their hopes upon what- p
* Frora CroYfell’s Primitive Christianity and Modem Spiritualism, vol. ;i. j j
ever faith they may possess; but how few possess this faith
in any considerable degree, and can rise to a state of confi¬
dence and resignation in the assurance that God doeth all
things well; and what a comfort it would be to the stricken
heart to hear, from the spiritual lips of the departed that
they still live—that they are not dead—that they frequently
visit their earthly friends and homes, and pour the balm of
consolation into the hearts of the despairing mourners; and
notwithstanding the preacher’s reiteration of the venerable
orthodox error that they “ come back to us on earth no
more,” they do return to us, and dry our tears with the
assurance that God in His love has provided a means of
communication between them and us. The words of Lizzie
Doten, the medial trance poetess, well embody this idea:—
“ So we fold our bands, and we close our eyes,
And we strive to forget our pain,
Lest the w£ak and the selfish wish should rise,
To ask for them back again.
“ The swelling tide of our grief we stay,
While our warm hearts fondly yearn,
And we ask if over that shining way
They shall nevermore return.
Oh, we oft forget that our lonely hours
Are known to the souls we love,
And they strew the path of our life with flowers
From that rainbow arch above.
“We hear them call, and their voices sweet
Float down from that bridge of light,
Where the gold and crimson and azure meet,
And mingle their glories bright.
We hear them call, and the soul replies
From the depth of the life below,
And we strive on the wings of faith to rise
To the height of that radiant bow.”
Thanks to the Infinite Father the lonely grave has no
more relation to us than has a depository of our cast-off
apparel, and we no more descend to the one than we follow
the conditions and fate of the other. Death is but the
crowning of life.
Thousands have passed through the experiences of death,
all but the final issue of the soul from the body, and have
recovered to relate them to others; and many of these
persons have described their sensations as pleasant, even
delightful, aside from the groundless fears sometimes ac¬
companying them, and their testimony confirms the remark
of Lord Bacon that “ It is as natural to die as to be born,
and to an infant, perhaps one is as painful as the other.”
And what are the first emotions of the liberated spirit ?
These must be as varied as their conditions; surprise, plea¬
sure, disappointment, confusion, and to some ecstatic delight,
dependent upon the previous belief or unbelief, and moral
condition of the spirit. The tender infant is often affected
as it was at its introduction to earth-life. An intelligent
spirit speaking in reference to this subject said \—
“ The birth into the higher life, and specially with infants,
is similar to the birth into this world; and when first their
brows are fanned by the foreign, unknown airs of the spirit-
world, their natural impulse is fear. They cry out through
fear. They often cry for the mother-love from which they
have been materially separated, but they are speedily
gathered in that beautiful land by loving, sympathizing
souls, who have need of just such buds to nourish them into
a higher life—who would care for their wants, and minister
to their needs. The mother-love could scarce do more for
them than is done by those who become their spiritual
mothers in the better life.”
Not long after the decease of a near relative, I was told by
a spirit friend, through Dr. Kenney, that when he died, im¬
mediately upon the extinction of his breath, as his spirit
friends who had removed a short distance from him in antici¬
pation of the event, were attentively observing him, he in
spirit form suddenly stood beside his deserted body. The
transition was accomplished so suddenly they did not per¬
ceive his emergence from the body. At this instant his
mother advanced and cast over him a loose robe and joyously
embraced him, he recognising her, though greatly be¬
wildered at finding himself in her presence, and amid such
surroundings. In a few minutes, when his surprise had
slightly abated, his other friends one by one advanced, and
upon recognising them, there were mutual embraces and re-
Nov. 24, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST. 195
newed expressions of joyous surprise on his part. Soon after
they soared upward with my friend in their midst.
Hudson Tuttle is one of the most reliable mediums now
living, for communications from spirits of high intelligence,
and the following was given, through him, as we find it in
Mrs. Emma Hardinge’s American Spiritualism.
It is the narration of the sufferings of a distinguished
soldier upon the field of battle, and of his first experience
upon his translation to spirit life.
“ A darkness came over me. I felt the earth strike hard
against me. I had fallen. Where and how I was wounded
I could not tell. I was in no pain, but I could not move.
After a time the strange ringing left my ears, the mists
cleared from my eyes. I saw dimly, but enough to know my
friends were gone and the enemy were all around me. Then
keen pains shot through my limbs. I knew I was injured,
but not mortally wounded. After the battle, when the field
was searched for the wounded, I should be cared for, kindly
tended, and then sent home on furlough. A sunny face would
meet me at the gate. The dear remembered home would
shelter me, loving hands would be busy about me, and
darling little ones climb my wounded knees and cling around
4 poor papa’s neck.’ Ah! what joy, what ecstasy! A
thousand thoughts like these shot through my mind like
gleams of sunlight.
44 Then I heard the hoarse voices of fierce combatants;
they had made a stand directly over where I lay. Our
soldiers fought desperately as they retreated, and many a
pursuing enemy fell on their track. One was aiming his
piece directly over me, when he was struck dead. He fell
across me. I endeavoured to move so as to shake off the j
dreadful pressure from my chest; but I was too weak—I
could only suffer and think. Others fell thick around me.
One lay heavily upon my aching feet, but intolerable as was
the pain of this added weight, I was only pinned more
closely to the earth; I could not move. The combatants had
moved on, their voices had died off in the distance, and I lay
helpless in the midst of thousands of such wrecks as myself.
Thoughts of the dear home far away, the beloved ones who
were watching and waiting for me amidst the quiet green
hills of Vermont, mingled with the horror of laying there in
the midst of that ghastly battle-field, with the dead weight
that crushed me growing heavier with every breath. It was
like some horrid nightmare. A corpse resting its cold
weight on my breast, a corpse pressing on my bleeding
limbs. Night came on and with it the rain. Darkness im- !
penetrable in the physical world; and oh I what unutterable
darkness in the mental. In the great rifts of the black
heavens there were awful flashes of lightning, and bursts
of thunder, in the midst of which I heard the groans of the
wounded as they lay in the pitiless rain.
44 When the morning came I was almost unconscious of
life. I remember watching the light breaking in the gray
east, my head rested on that side, and I was too weak to turn
it, or else it had become stiff in the rain.
44 As it became light I heard the rolling of artillery, then
the fierce booming thunder of the battle renewed. I heard
the crash of the rumbling wheels, the tramp of the war
horses; I knew they were coming towards me, and the hor¬
rible fear came over me lest I should be trampled under foot,
crushed, maimed, ground into the dust! I endeavoured to
shout and tell them I was not dead, but I could not even
whisper. On they came, maddened and reckless by the
spirit of the war. The iron-footed horses were on me,
almost; but no—they passed me, but now the dreadful
wheels approached! I saw them coming; one was directly
over my eyes. That was the last I remember.
44 All was perfect silence. The sounds of war were all
hushed. I think I must have been in perfect, dreamless
slumber, for 1 felt, heard, and saw nothing. When I awoke
I was well, peaceful, happy; John was standing near me,
apparently in perfect health. 4 You here?’ I asked in
astonishment; 41 thought you were dead.’ 4 So I am,’ he
replied; 4 at least I have lost my mortal body, but you
plainly see the body is not all there is of a man, for my
body is as you say dead, yet I exist. 4 Surely,’ I answered,
41 have dreamed, or else am dreaming.’
44 He smiled as he replied,4 Not so, but you too are dead.’
Our conversation lasted some hours before I was fully con- 1
I vinced I was really dead, though free from pain, and the
I horrors of the battle-field over.
| 44 Since then I have watched the advent of many spirits
| on the battle-field. The emotions they manifest are as various
Ij as the dispositions they bore in life. Some arise from the
| body perfectly bewildered, others filled with unutterable
| hate, and only inspired with the desire of vengeance on the
| foe. Many meet dear friends, who await their coming and
| hover round their departing spirits. Guardian spirits stand
| ready by the side of all to conduct them to the land where
| wars shall cease for ever. ;
441 once observed two northern and southern men charge
j bayonets and mutually kill each other. As they arose to
| this sphere they stood casting looks of hate at each other,
J but by instant spiritual instinct, perceiving that in their im-
1 mortal bodies they could no longer injure one another, they
j turned slowly away, repelled by that principle so cogent
I here, that we cannot approach those we hate, nor quit those
! we love.”
I have given the above narration entire, for the reason that
| it is a graphic description of death on the battle-field, and
I of the subsequent experiences of the spirit upon entering
| the spirit-world, by one who had passed through the events
| and scenes he describes. It is a rational description, strictly
I in accordance with what is now known of death and the
| first conditions of spirit existence thereafter, and besides I
| have the most perfect faith in the good faith and the reliable
| mediumship of the gentleman through whom the communi-
I cation came.
This is not the place to expatiate upon the visions of
I beauty that open to the view of the virtuous upon their
| advent to spirit life, nor upon the cheerless prospect that
| presents itself to the gaze of the worshippers at the shrines
| of mammon and sensuality; upon the supreme happiness of
I the former, upon the realisation of the perfection of their
! spirit-home, and of their consciousness of their capacity
| to appreciate and enjoy it; and upon the chagrin and dis-
| appointment of the latter, upon their discovery that all their
earthly treasures are to them forever lost, with no heavenly
| riches to compensate ; forever deprived of means of sensual
| enjoyment, while the memory of former gratifications still
j burns within and haunts them. To these death is in one
| sense the enemy, for it deprives them of the opportunity for
I the gratification of selfish indulgence, and casts the unclean
spirit stranded upon the shores of eternity, where it is com-
| polled to commence and prosecute the tedious and sad work
I of purification through continued and laborious efforts, to
| which it has not been accustomed, but yet which are essen¬
tial to its progress, as through this means alone can it rise
to the enjoyments that ever await the virtuous and good.
The fear of death is the fruit of ignorance and false teach-
| ings, and it is found that as correct views of the great change
I are obtained through the light of Spiritualism, this fear in-
| variably diminishes, and is soon dissipated, and death is no
I longer the grim monster the world has regarded it; to-
| day thousands view it in this light with calmness aud hope,
! as the beneficent provision for the termination of all earthly
I ills, and the commencement of eternal happiness.
And what a blessing it is for one to be free from the bale-
| ful effects of the teachings of old theology upon this subject;
to be able to view the approach of death not only without
I apprehension but with pleasure, and what a heavenly privilege
to be able at the couch of the sufferer to confidently and know-
j ingly assure him that his fears are groundless ; that death is
| really and surely an angel of light and mercy, and not the
! un pitying remorseless enemy that he has been taught to be¬
lieve. Even young children can be taught to view death
without fear by impressing their tender minds with the
| beautiful truths of angelic ministry and love.
441 was greatly pleased,” said Dr. Thompson, 44 with a
! little incident a mother gave me the other day. A child lay
| dying. Feeling unusual sensations, she said, 4 Mamma,
| what is the matter with me ? ’
44 Mother: 4 My child, you are dying.’
44 Child: 4 Well, mamma, what is dying?’
44 Mother : 4 To you, dear child, it is going to heaven.’
| 44 Child: 4 Where is heaven ? ’
44 Mother: 4 It is where God is, and the angels, and the
! good men made perfect.’
196
THE SPIRITUALIST.   Hov/24, 1876.
“ Child : ‘ But, mamma, I am not acquainted with any of
those, and do not like to go alone ; won’t you go with me ? ’
u Mother: ‘ 0 Mary, I cannot. God has called you only;
not me now.’
u Turning to the father, she asked the same question.
Then piteously to each of her brothers and sisters, she
repeated the same interrogatory, and received the same
response. She then fell into a gentle slumber, from which
she awoke in a transport of joy, saying : ( You need not go
with me; I can go alone. I-have been there, and grand¬
mamma is there, and grandpapa is there, and Aunt Martha.”
The portals of death open upon a land bathed in the
effulgence of eternal light, and not upon the sunless realms
of the grave. It is but the fall of the curtain after the last
act of the drama of life; soon it is again raised, when our
astonished eyes are permitted to feast upon the delightful,
unfading realities of the spirit-world. No more will the
Curtain fall to conceal those ravishing scenes. We are hence¬
forth with those who act glorious parts; we become com¬
panions of those radiant beings whom heretofore we have
viewed only through the mists of earth.
Death bridges the chasm between earth and heaven. It
is the passage from a land of mists and tears to one of eternal
sunshine—“from a land of gloom gnd sorrow to one of beauty
and gladness. It is only through the portals of death that
we can enter into the enjoyments of life. The weary
traveller should as soon think of dreading the blessed
slumber that refreshes him, as the pilgrim through this
wilderness of care and trouble the welcome sleep of death. It
is simply laying down the burden of earth-life, and arising
emancipated and free to breathe the celestial atmosphere of
a glorious existence. Death, the dark king of terrors, is
being shorn of his sceptre, and soon an angel of light and
mercy will be enthroned in his stead, whom we will crown
with laurel and myrtle, leaving the gloom of the cypress for
the unhappy few-who still believe in death. I quote a few
more of the trance utterances of Miss Doten :—
Jf Ohj what is death ? Tis a fleeting breath—
A simple but blessed change;
’Tis rending a chain, that the soul may gain
A higher and broader range.
Unbounded space is its dwelling-place
Where no human foot hath trod,
But everywhere doth it feel the cafe,
And the changeless love of Grod. ;
“ Oh, then, though you weep when your loved ones sleep,
When the rQse on the cheek grows pale, |)
' Yet their forms of light, just concealed from sight,
Are only behind the vail. LI K
With their faces fair, and their shining hair jj
With blossoms of beauty crowned,
They will also stand with a helping hand,
When you shall be Outward bound.” i
H Hi u tm i
.. . ■ |
Mu. J. J. Morse.—On Sunday last, ..November 19th, Mr. Morse !
delivered an inspirational address at Doughty Hall, London, on the i
subject of “ The Life Immortal.”. A large and appreciative audience jj
was in attendance. On Sunday next Mr. Morse will deliver two in- j)
spirational addresses in the Old County Court Booms, Halifax, after- jj
noon at 2.30; evening at 6,30. His other engagements for the rest of j
the present year are—Newcastle-on-Tyne, December 3rd and 4th; ij
Oldham, December 10th, 12th, and 14th; Manchester, December 17th; ij
New Mills, December 18th; Wolverhampton, December 19th; London, j)
December 24th and 31st. All letters to be addressed to Mr. Morse at j
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London. E.
, Spiritualism in the North of England.—Miss Longbottom, trance jj
medium, of Halifax, has been lecturing in the north, where she has jj
been well received on this her first visit. Her first address was given jj
at Chester-le-street, and more recently she spoke at the Freemasons’ Tj
Old Hall, Newcastle. The subject on the latter occasion was—“Who ij
does it all;.and how is it done?” Mr, Armstrong, sen., presided, and i
the hall was crowded to excess. Miss Longbottom was warmly wel- ij
corned; slie is a young lady rather above the average height, with a jj
quiet, but pleasing'expression of countenance, rather timid and nervous, j j
She sits on the platform, and is neatly dressed in black, with her hair j j
carefully arranged in curls; and she creates at once a favourable j)
impression on the audience. She passes into the trance condition jj
quietly, and, were it not for a few gentle shocks slightly convulsing her jj
frame, visible only to these in .close proximity to her, no perceptible j)
difference from her normal state would be noticed, with the exception jj
that her eyes are closed. Bat when she speaks her features wear a jj
much harder expression than is natural to them; her voice becomes jj
somewhat masculine, bold and distinct, but at times falls low. In her jj
addresses she appeals to tie finer and more religious emotions,of j)
human nature, ' , jj
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GBEAT BRITAIN.
On Thursday evening, last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting
of the Psychological Society, held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-
square, Mr. Serjeant Cox presided. There was a large attendance, the
hall being inconveniently full,
Mr. A. Vacher, Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, Mr. George R. Wright,
and Lady Subsark were elected members of the society.
A few communications to the society were read by Mr. F. K. Munton,
honorary secretary.
UNCONSCIOUS CEREBRATION.
Mr. C. C. Massey then read a paper on “ Some Applications of the
Theory of Unconscious Cerebration.” He quoted largely from Dr.
Carpenter’s recent work on Mental Physiology, and while he admitted
unconscious cerebration as a fact, he argued that it had been applied to
phenomena which it was incompetent to explain, and that well attested
facts opposed to it had been unduly kept out of sight. There was a
general straining of the theory to make it cover more ground than it
was justly competent to occupy.
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood said that he thought that those cases of
slate writing in the presence of Dr. Slade, in which Greek messages
came when nobody Was in the room who understood Greek, was a con¬
clusive fact in opposition to the theory of unconscious cerebration. In
his presence the 26th verse of the third chapter of Genesis had been
written in Greek, through the mediumship of Dr. Slade, under con¬
ditions where imposture was impossible. He (Mr. Wedgwood) could
not have written it consciously or unconsciously, and Dr. Slade did not
understand Greek.
Mr. Joy wished to be informed how Mr. Wedgwood knew that Dr.
Slade was unacquainted with Greek, and had not read the Septuagint ?
Mr. Wedgwood replied that Dr. Slade was an uneducated man, and
that Mr. Simmons, who knew him well, testified that he had no know¬
ledge of Greek.
Dr. Carter Blake, as a visitor, thanked the President for the privi¬
lege of listening to Mr. Massey’s philosophical paper. The doctrines
of “unconscious cerebration,” and of “psychic force,” appeared to
him not to account either for the physiological or the physical pheno¬
mena. If Pfliiger’s experiment were repeated, and the spinal chord of
a frog divided below the serisorium, the posterior segment of the frog
showed evidence of sensation and volition. So, cutting tbe head away,
such “ cerebration ” as the frog ever possessed was produced without
the head. Assuming the spinal chord to be a sensational and volitional
centre, the action of a body acting at a distance from sitter or medium
was not explained. And when such action showed that the power
producing slate writing was intelligent to a higher degree than either
sitter or medium, it was difficult to say how latent thoughts could
exist which were never in the minds of the persons present. When,
for example, a gentleman ignorant of Spanish, Italian, and Portuguese,
received a message in those, languages, when alone with Dr. Slade, in
whose good faith no intelligent person no longer could feel a doubt,
he did not see how such message could be the result of “unconscious
cerebration.” And when the force which moved heavy objects con¬
trary to the volition of either medium or sitter was tangible, solid,
material, and often visible, he thought that we could not hesitate to
recognise it as a separate entity. In conclusion, he begged the Psycho¬
logical Society to revert to the old laws of thought, as shown in the
peripatetic philosophy. After centuries of ignorance, the pendulum of
human thought was now swinging back to the ideas of Aristotle, and
the ancient conception of “form,” whether identifiable or not with the
simulacra or eidola of the Epicureans, would, he submitted, account for
many of the phenomena, and not be contrary to the explanation which
Spiritualists gave of them.
Mr. Spencer said that he believed that Captain Burton’s letter in The
Times referred chiefly to visions in crystals, in relation to which Captain
Burton had had more experience perhaps than any other living man.
He (Mr. Spencer) could bear witness that information was sometimes
obtained in this way, altogether foreign to knowledge possessed by the
seer.
MR. SERJEANT COX’S SPECULATIONS.
Mr. Serjeant Cox thought that it was a good rule never to ascribe
anything to the supernatural until the natural had been exhausted
when everything else had failed to explain phenomena it would be time
enough to call spirits to their aid. The phenomena appearing to the
uninformed to be improbable was no proof that they were not real; the
motion of the earth existed thousands of years before it was discovered
that it revolved around the sun; if anybody in those early times had
said that the earth went round the sun, everybody else in the world
would have said that he was a fool and would perhaps have prosecuted
him in a police-court. (Hear, hear.) He entirely accepted Dr. Car¬
penter’s theory of unconscious cerebration, but without some additions it
would not explain all psychical phenomena. He (Mr. Serjeant Cox)
started with the assumption that man has two brains, just as he has two
eyes, and that sometimes one of these brains would work inharmoniously
with the other; in this abnormal working might be found the explana¬
tion of many psychical facts. He thought that separate impressions
were made by the external world upon each brain, but that the impres¬
sions received by the conscious self, or soul, were single, although in
health they reached it through a double channel, and the conscious self
then took cognisance of the two impressions as one. But he surmised
that when the body was out of health the conscious self took cognisance
only of the impressions made upon one brain, and not at the time of
those made upon the other; in fact, one brain might be receiving one
set of impressions, and the other brain receiving another—each brain
storing up the impressions made upon it. A reversal of the process
might sometimes take place by one of the brains acting unconsciously
to the individual. All planchette writing he thought to be due to this
197
Nov 24, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST.
unconscious action of one of the brains. He supposed that if man had
but one brain he would never dream at all, and that when he had un¬
conscious sleep it was because both the brains were at rest at the same
time. Planchette-writing he thought to be due to the unconscious
Working of one brain directing the motions of the hand.
The Rev. W. Stainton Moses: Do you think that the brain never acts
beyond the body ?
Mr. Serjeant Oox: At present I am dealing only with the planchette,
but you open another and larger question, which I will not deal with at
present. What I have just said is merely an hypothesis which ought to
be thought over and talked about, to see whether it will hold good.
Mr. Stainton Moses had ventured to ask his question because Mr.
Crookes had recorded in public that one day, when his wife was using
a planchette, he put his finger on a newspaper behind him, and asked
that the word beneath it—which he did not know himself—should be
written; the planchette then wrote it out. This was why he wanted to
know whether the Chairman postulated the action of the brain beyond
the bounds of the body. How did Mr. Serjeant Cox explain by his
theory the experiment made by Mr. Crookes ? He thought the uncon¬
scious cerebration theory to be one of the most illusory that had ever
deceived mankind; it would cover a certain range of facts, and go no
further, and all hypotheses were bad which did not cover the whole
ground of fact. He had listened to Mr. Massey’s paper with attention;
he had always thought unconscious cerebration to be a kind of maid-of-
all-work, to be called in to clear inconvenient facts but of the way, and
he thought that, like the theory of unconscious muscular action, it would
soon be swept into the limbo of the forgotten past. The theory dealt
with abnormal states, but the facts took place in the presence of
healthy people who were not insane. He had heard many explana¬
tions which darkened counsel with words of wisdom, and especially was
this the case when a theory had to be supported; human nature then
asserted itself, and it was very much in human nature, after framing a
theory, to set to work to find facts to support it. He should like to
reverse the process—to observe the facts first, and form a theory after¬
wards. (Hear, hear.) He thought unconscious cerebration to be a
theory formed to get rid of inconvenient facts, like that of the Greek
script already mentioned ; moreover, a little while ago, he had seen a
slate which contained writing in Turkish. He (Mr. Stainton Moses)
understood Greek very well, but did not get any Greek writing, only
plain English, which was remarkable, since his presence offered such a
fine opportunity for unconscious cerebration to come to the front. Mr.
Dale Owen had sent to The Spiritualist a photograph of some Greek
writing obtained by him in Dr. Slade’s presence, and Mr. Wedgwood
had sent some more Greek writing from the same source to the Medium.
When he (Mr. Moses) first looked at the writing reproduced in The
Spiritualist, he thought it slurred stuff, but, on closer examination, he
found it to be the running style of one accustomed to writing the cha¬
racters. With Mr. Wedgwood and Mr. Gledstanes the style was that
of a person unaccustomed to writing Greek, and the two latter messages
had a different signature to that appended to the former; he thought
that, altogether, there was evidence of Mr. Dale Owen’s message
having been written by another intelligence. It was quite certain that
the human spirit played a great part in these manifestations, and many
difficulties would be cleared up when they knew more of the powers of
the human spirit and of its transcorporeal action. He had satisfied
himself, by laborious investigation, of the truth of the whole theory of
what was called Spiritualism in its widest sense, and did not tie himself
down merely to the human spirit. There were unimagined possibilities
within every living human being; and by learning more of his own
powers, man would do much to advance the eternal destinies of his
hereafter. (Applause.)
Mr. Nichols agreed with the last speaker, that no subject better
deserved investigation than the powers of the human spirit. He came
to that meeting as an ignoramus, who had never taken the trouble to
investigate the alleged phenomena for himself, but he came with a desire
to be informed. He thought that the case of the servant girl who when
in a delirium wrote Hebrew, which he had heard her master utter years
before, was a proof of the existence of such a thing as unconscious cere¬
bration. Mr. Massey had cited a case of a planchette which had told
those using it that it had been made at Bath. The statement proved to
be true, and those using it had not been aware of the fact before ; he
thought that this did not fit in with the theory of Mr. Serjeant Cox, or
with the theory of. unconscious cerebration; there seemed to be some
inconsistency. He knew nothing about Spiritual manifestations, but it
seemed extraordinary that people come forward who could do exactly
the same things. (No, no.) Well, he was merely telling them what
passed in his own mind, in consequence of what he had read in the
public papers. (Hear, hear, and applause.) The public papers told
him that the conjurers reproduced the same manifestations. (No, no.)
It seemed to him that the manifestations of spirits were puerile in the
extreme, and he thought that it could hardly be a part of the grand
economy of nature that spirits should do such simple things ; he thought
that they ought to come for purposes of instruction. (Question.) He
was simply telling what passed in his own mind in* consequence of what
he had read in the newspapers. (Hear, hear.)
At this point there was a pause, everybody laughing and listening to
loud spirit raps through the mediumship of Mrs. Jencken (Kate Fox),
which had been going on for some time, and were now strong enough to
be heard all over the hall.
EXtERIMENTS WITH CLAIRVOYANTS.
Mr. Enmore Jones: During the past few weeks I have been mystified
as to the meaning of “ palmistry,’’ and now I am puzzled as to the
meaning of “ unconscious cerebration.” Can somebody tell me its exact
meaning ?
The Chairman: The working of the brain resulting in action without
the consciousness of the individual,
|| Mr. Enmore Jones—Oh ! then, unconscious cerebration is all foolish-
| ness. (Laughter.) I have had twenty years’ experience, and mediums
I have told me plenty they knew nothing about. Once I had a servant
| girl residing in my own house. Passing over several phenomena which
would take me twelve or fourteen hours to tell, I found that when she
| was in the clairvoyant state she gave evidence that there was a “ ghost
| power ” in stones and shells, or what you call “ psychic forceshe
j told me that there were certain curative powers in particular stones,
| and that she could tell me where the stones were. I was fool enough
sometimes to get a cab, she with her eyes closed entered the cab, and
thus we made many journeys in search of stones which she had previ¬
ously seen at a distance clairvoyantly. I did not like the idea of being
in a cab with this sleeping girl, so I lit up a wax candle, and thus
we travelled over the hills and far away. (Laughter.) When we
got out she would jog along with her eyes shut until we arrived at the
! place. She would then put her hand down and pick up the stone
which she had previously described. I would then, mark it and wrap
| it in paper. She told me that certain stones would put mesmeric
i sensitives to sleep whilst others would wake them up. Once in walk-
| ing along a road while I was carrying the candle, she stopped with a
| shock, and I said, “Lizzie! what’s the matter?” She replied, “ O,
| that stone ! That stone !” and it woke her up; she had stepped on it in
| walking. I put her to sleep again with a sleeping stone. Unconscious
! cerebration will not explain these things. We want less theory and
more practice. I found that these stones possessed the same powers
| over other sensitives which she asserted them to have, and I could tell
| you of many experiments. I found that the stones had a peculiar power
| within themselves, and a distinctive colour, by which sensitives could
identify them when in a clairvoyant state. If any man tells me that
unconscious cerebration explains these things, he is not so wise as I am.
THE NATURAL AND SUPERNATURAL.
Mr. Algernon Joy—I speak with the humility of a stranger when I
| say that the way in which the speakers have departed from the subject
is perfectly awful. You, Mr. Chairman, used the word “ supernatural”
I as applied to Spiritualism, and said that psychic force was not super¬
natural.
] Mr. Serjeant Cox—I used the word “supernatural’’ for want of a
I better, in describing causes external to the human machine. “ Super¬
human ” would have been a better word.
I Mr. Joy continued that he was going to object to the word “ super-
i natural ” altogether, for no educated Spiritualist believed in the super-
I natural; all the phenomena of Spiritualism were believed to be perfectly
natural.
| The Chairman—I go with you to the full extent in this matter. The
Word “ supernatural ” was hot well chosen by me.
REMARKABLE PLANCHETTE MESSAGES,
!Mr. Joy remarked that it was incomprehensible how anybody could
go to seances regularly without seeing that the evidence was absolute of
the presence of some intelligence not that of any person in the room.
The evidence of spirit agency was just as strong as that of the chairman’s
bantling, psychic force. He (Mr. Joy) knew a lady who had never
seen a planchette until he had introduced it to her; he also knew
another lady who had never seen one at all, and who thought that if
any power was in any way connected with the instrument it must come
! from the devil. The latter lady entered the room one day while plan--
chette was moving for her friend, and she remarked; “ It is all humbug,
and it will stop when I put my hand on it.” However, it did not do so,
but ran on more vigorously when her unconscious cerebration helped,
j (Laughter.) On the next evening four persons were present, including
/1 himself, and they agreed that they would write questions on slips of
(i paper, and not let the medium see what the questions were. The scep-
||'j tical lady already mentioned asked in writing, “Where’s Robert?’’ of
whom she had not heard for years. The planchette wrote out “ Cooper.”
i She replied that she had never heard of such a place, and added,
| “ Where is it P” The reply was, “ Carpentaria.” They afterwards
discovered that Cooper was a town on the Gulf of Carpentaria. Next
she wrote, “Where’s Jack?” The answer was “Liverpool.” She
laughed, and, for the first time spoke, saying, “ That is a mistake, for I
know he is in Lisbon.” The planchette again wrote, angrily, “ Liver¬
pool.” She afterwards made inquiries by post of a friend, and learned
that “Jack” had unexpectedly arrived in Liverpool. He did not know
what unconscious cerebration or psychic force had to do with these
facts. It was quite a mistake to suppose that conjurers could do that
| which occurred in the presence of mediums. He had offered a reward
of a thousand pounds to any conjurer who would produce the same
| things under the same conditions, and not by mediumship : to this day
| the challenge remained unaccepted. Maskelyne and Cooke had
| refused to make the attempt. Once another conjurer called upon him,
| but when he learned that his hands and feet were to be held by disbe¬
lievers all the time he was in the room, he did not attempt to accept
the challenge.
| Mr. Stainton Moses said that Mr. Joy’s challenge had been rejected
over and over again. Mediums were simply rendered helpless by the
conditions imposed, yet the phenomena took place; but when conjurers
were rendered helpless everything was at an end.
I Mr. Dunlop hoped that they would not sweep away unconscious cere¬
bration, and other theories, if they explained so far and no farther. He
! had never seen any of the Spiritualistic phenomena. He did not deny
their reality, indeed no sensible man could do so, but if unconscious
cerebration and Serjeant Cox’s theory explained some of the facts, those
explanations might be true, and they should look elsewhere for the
solution of the remainder. In the East the Punkah-Wallah would go
to sleep while he was at work, and would snore, yet continue to pull the
! punkah. If anybody woke him he apologised, rubbed his eyes, and
J began to blow more vigorously. He was not absolutely asleep, but half
198
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 24; 1876;
asleep, for if he was left alone for half-an-hour both his brains ceased |(
to act, and his work stopped. Here the theory of unconscious cere- j )
bration might be accepted, and there was no guilt in so doing because j)
it did not explain the higher phenomena in the distance. He thought j (
that there was very little in Dr. Carpenter’s book that he would have i |
to cancel when all the facts were fully understood; but at the same time j)
he thought that he would have to add a great deal to it. He was told ! (
that Dr. Carpenter was investigating Spiritualism at the present time j >
with two mediums, and he hoped they would give him the opportunity j)
of adding a chapter to his book. Once he (Mr. Dunlop) had heard of a j (
Highlander who did not, in the opinion of his friends, know how to j j
speak Gaelic, and who met with a serious accident by which his head |)
was injured; then in a half unconscious state he began to speak Gaelic
tolerably fluently. u
Mr. C. C. Massey, in reply to the various speakers, said that he I
accepted unconscious cerebration as an important fact in physiology, !
and thought everybody ought to thank Dr. Carpenter for what he had j)
written on the subject. At the same time there had been a manifest j (
straining of the theory to explain phenomena which it was wholly
unable to cover, and he was sure that no disciple of unconscious cere- ])
bration would ever admit that the theory explained the facts in question. I (
Further, in Dr. Carpenter’s book the facts to which the theory was in- |)
applicable had been put out of sight, whilst those favourable to it had j)
been drawn into the net, and it had been intimated to the public that | (
the evidence for the former phenomena was not sound. Thus the book i j
was unconsciously disingenuous in the circumstance that it intimated j /
that the more important facts either were covered by the theory or were j
not proven. ])
The Secretary announced that at the meeting next Thursday Pro- j /
fessor Plumptre will read a paper on “ Art Magic.” j
The proceedings then closed. I
THE SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND. |
The present dimensions of the fund will be seen in the !
advertisement columns on the front page. i
About a fortnight before Dr. Slade’s case had been closed j
in the Police Court, Mr. Harrison wrote to Mr. Epes Sargent, j
of Boston, urging him and the proprietors of the Banner of j
Light, to raise subscriptions in America, in the event of an j
adverse decision. The letter reached Mr. Sargent about the j
same time as an Atlantic telegram from a gentleman, in- |
forming him of the result of the trial. The consequence is, |
that Messrs. Colby and Rich will do their best to raise sub- |
scriptions in America, and have themselves headed the list |<
with 200 dollars.
Dr. Slade has a great number of friends in America, whose j j
esteem has been gained through a public career of fifteen \\
years’ duration, and whose experiences are as usual altogether j j
at variance with those of Messrs. Lankester and Donkin, j
■whose ephemeral observations and hasty conclusions have not j(
in the slightest degree weakened the confidence in Dr. Slade \)
of any Spiritualist that we know of in this country.
At a meeting of the Executive Committee, held on Monday j
last, the treasurers reported subscriptions entered to the j)
extent of about £310, including £40 from America. But the j
appeal against Dr. Slade's conviction may possibly cost four |
times that sum, and unless at least a considerable proportion j
of the probable cost is guaranteed in advance, it would be j
rash to incur expense in commencing proceedings which j
might afterwards have to be abandoned for want of funds, j
One subscriber has undertaken to give £1 for every £40 j
subscribed from other sources, up to a total of £1,000. It j I
would be well if other subscribers would follow this principle, | {
by which each would bear a share in proportion to his or her j j
means. ,• j<
Mr. Algernon Joy, M.Inst.C.E., has been appointed |j
honorary secretary to the Committee, and the Committee itself j j
is in process of enlargement. ' . [I
The Cbedulity of Incredulity.—“Does the supernatural really j
exist?” That is the point. We can wait to ask later what it tends h
to. The question need not he presented as a theological problem—can j(
be kept quite distinct from religion, hut is intensely interesting in itself. ]
Whether the supernatural, if it does exist, is likely to do us any parti- i <
cular good is a question of a profoundly unscientific character. The j(
truly scientific mind wants to investigate great phenomena quite irre- j
spective of their immediate utility. But the position is hardly suscept- j j
ible of argument really. Any man who saw a vase move oft' his dwn i1
mantelpiece by itself, and return to its place, or a table get up into the i!
air without anyone touching it, or any other incident of that kind,
would be very much interested, even though the exigencies of an argu-
im nt might make him in the first instance pretend that he would not be.
There are great numbers of people who say they have seen incidents of i
this kind; so many, that to declare nothing of the kind ever took place,
is getting to be a foolish assertion. There are limits to the extent to
which it is possible to disbelieve what other people say.—The Pioneer i
(Allahabad), 11
SPIRIT POETRY.
THE VICTIM OF CIRCUMSTANCES.
The criminal is the child and victim of circumstances—of the circum¬
stances of birth, education, and surroundings—the proscribed and out¬
cast of society, and is generally far more to be pitied than blamed.
One of these unfortunates, after he had arisen above his shadows in
spirit-life, thus eloquently and vividly described in verse through the
trance mediumship of Miss Lizzie Doten, the earthly woes and
sufferings that were the legitimate fruits of his inherited and acquired
tendencies. The words are taken from her inspired Poems from the
Inner Life.
Out in the desolate midnight,
Out in the cold and rain,
With the bitter, bleak winds of winter
Driving across the plain;
In the ghastly gloom of the churchyard,
Crouching behind a stone,
Fleeing from what is called Justice,
I was safe with the dead alone.
All of the madness and evil,
That into my nature was cast;
All of the demon or devil,
Had filled up its measure at last.
Blood, on my hands, of a brother !
Blood—an indelible stain ?
Burning, and smarting, and eating
Into my heart and my brain.
In woe and iniquity shapen,
Conceived by my mother in sin,
Forecast in the soil of pollution,
Did the life of my being begin.
I chose not the nature within me;
I was fated and fashioned by birth;
Foreordained to the darkness and evil,
The sins and the sorrows of earth.
The world was my foe ere it knew me;
It scattered its snares in my path;
Like a serpent it charmed and it drew me,
Then met me with judgment and wrath!
I saw that the strong crushed the weaker,
That wickedness won in the strife,
And the greatest of crimes and of curses
Was the lot of a beggar in life!
* * * 5|< # * *
O the prison! the sentence ! the gallows!
That last fearful struggle for breath!
The rush, and the roar, and confusion,
The depth and the darkness of death!
O man! I have sinned and have suffered;
The climax of evil is past;
But the justice of time may determine
That you were more guilty at last!
Then long did I struggle with phantoms.
And wandered in darkness and night,
Till there came to my soul, in its prison,
The form of an Angel of Light.
I thought, in my blindness and darkness,
That he was the Infinite God,
Who had come in the might of His vengeance
To smite with His merciless rod.
*******
“ My brother,” replied the bright angel,
“ Let the name of the Highest be blessed!
Lo I He renders thee blessing for cursing,
His will and His way are the best.
Thy soul in His sight hath been precious,
Since the birth of thy being began;
Thou art judged by the need of thy nature,
And not by the standard of man.”
Then out of my cursing and madness,
And out of the furnace of flame,
My soul, like a jewel of beauty,
Annealed through life’s processes came.
The forms of my loved ones were near me,
The night of my sorrow had passed;
God grant you, oh mortals who judged me,
As full an acceptance at last!
A Parable.—*A Roman who had just witnessed the decapitation of
a criminal for violating the laws and defying the majesty of the state by
refusing to burn incense to the gods and to invoke the genius of the
Emperor, might have reflected that the criminal was one of a class pos¬
sessed by an “ exitiabilis superstitio ” and a certain “ odium humam
generis,” who met together at night.amidst the dead to sing “charms”
and adore with magic rites a crucified malefactor represented with an
ass’s head, and who were so rapidly and mysteriously increasing that no
citizen could feel quite sure he might not even himself be seized unwit¬
tingly by this degrading and insane superstition: had such a Roman,
so reflecting, considered his era to be one critical for the empire, and
himself a witness of the commencement of a social cataclysm, he would
not have exaggerated the importance of the phenomena surrounding
him.—Contemporary Evolution, by Professor St. George Mivart, F.R.S.,
p. 3.”
Nov. 24," 1876. THE SPIEITUALIST. 199
MR. BLACKBURN’S SEANCES. j j
BY C. CARTER BLAKE, DOC. SCI. ||j
On Wednesday, Nov. 15th, anotherof Mr. C. Blackburn’s new [ I
series of seances took place, with Mr. C. E. Williams as medium, j |
The circle consisted of Mr. B. de Courcy Nixon, Mr. A. | !
May, Mrs. and Miss Edensor, Mrs. Edmands,-Mrs. Limpus, | j
Mr. W. J. Pickersgill, Miss Emily Fitz-Gerald, and myself j !
for the seance committee. The manifestations at the dark j |
seance were very good, the musical box being floated in the j j
air, and seen by several, including myself, to cross the I |
space of light shown by the chink above the shutters, and li
hands being felt by nearly the whole circle, while those of j j
Mr. Williams were firmly held by myself and a lady. A j !
cabinet seance took place afterwards for materialisations, | |
which did not appear, though several persons were touched j j
outside the cabinet, when Mr. Williams, to my certain j
knowledge, was inside it. Lights were shown at a distance | j
from the medium, and the voice which claims to be that of j j
“Peter’’was heard. It is, of course, needless for those j j
who have been at many of Mr. Williams’ seances to express ! j
their confidence in his thorough honesty and sincerity.
Mr. N. F. Dawe is at Cannes, and will shortly proceed to Italy. Mr. m
and Mrs. W. Tebb are about to visit Rome and Naples. j |
The Mexican Society of Spiritualists is about to found a Library and | |
Reading Room in Mexico. \l\
Aid for Mrs. Cogman.—Mrs. Maltby, 41, Marylebone-road, London, j j
ha6 received the following additional subscriptions on behalf of the iji
widow of the late Mr. Cogman, and will be glad to receive further con- j (;
tributions towards the same deserving object:—J. M. G-., £3; J. N. T. ! j
Martheze, £2 2s.; Thos. Gront, £2; A. T. T. Peterson, £1; by E. W. Hi
Waller, £1; W. Tebb, £2 2s.; previously acknowledged, £30 6s. 6d.: j j
total, £41 10s. 6d.
Some one or two correspondents have had the weakness to ask us to ! j
reply to one or other of the numerous abusive articles in daily news- ! J;
papers against Spiritualism. The daily papers are well known to be i j
incompetent to deal with ordinary scientific subjects without making .(
absurd mistakes, and Spiritualism being unpopular, most of them add i i
misrepresentation and abuse to the usual blunders of incapacity. The ] I ]
space of a technical journal cannot be wasted to any great extent over (j
such antagonists, and no glory is to be gained in a successful encounter m
with them. The conductors of the Times, the Sussex Daily News, and in
one or two other daily papers deal fairly with the subject, and possess | |
some of the instincts of gentlemen.
Clairvoyance.—To the Editor of the Sussex Daily News.—Sir,—Will j j
you allow me, through the medium of your columns, to make the fol- j j
lowing proposition to Spiritualists, mesmerists, clairvoyants, and others i |
whom it may concern ? I shall place in a locked box, under test con- I (i
ditions : 1, a Scripture text; 2, an easy arithmetical sum; 3, a ten- | [ j
pound Bank of England note. I am willing to give the above note to j
anyone who will do one of the following things: 1, read the text; j i
2, calculate the sum; 3, give the number of the note. I can promise | !
that the performance of any one of the above test operations will go | j i
farther to prove the truth of Spiritualism, or the presence of “odic i |
force,” than many columns of the washy twaddle which one sees pub- ! j
lished daily on the subject. If two or more applicants for the above j) j
sum arise, I reserve to myself the right of selecting the one whom I j (
consider to have prior claims. Persons willing to undergo the above I [ i
test operation must send a written application to the following address j
before the 1st January, 1877.—-H., 7, St. John’s-terrace, Hove, Nov. (l
16th, 1876.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—At the ordinary monthly session of the !
Council of the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, held j}
at the Association’s Rooms, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, on Thursday ]}
evening last week, the following members were present:—Mrs. Amelia j
Corner, vice-president, in the chair, Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. John j
Rouse, Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, and Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen. The !
minutes of last Council meeting were read and confirmed. A letter was |
read from Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., the president, as to the liability of ] j
professional mediums. Presentations received since the last meeting of j
the Council, were laid upon the table and accepted with a cordial vote i (
of thanks to the respective donors, viz., the “British National Associa-
tion of Spiritualists,” Mr. William White, and Mr. Charles Blackburn, j j
The hon. secretary read correspondence with the “ Marylebone Associa- |i
tion of Inquirers into Spiritualism,” agreeing to reciprocate members’ ■; [
privileges between the two Associations, which arrangement was con- i j
firmed. The attention of the Council was called to the question of ar- j(
rangements for the last Thursday evening in December next, and a |
letter was read from Mr. J. J. Morse, applying for an engagement, i |
which was not accepted. It was resolved to celebrate the sixth anni- | (
versary of the Association at the rooms on Thursday evening, 4th Jan., j
1877. An offer by Mr. F. R. Young, honorary member, to read a paper I
on “ The Positive Value of Spirit Communion,’’ on Thursday evening, i
the 25th January, 1877, was accepted with thanks. On the motion of j |
Mr. John Rouse, seconded by Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, it was resolved j |
—“ That no professional media be paid by the Association .until after |
the Slade case is settled.” ' 1 *
RECEPTION AT MRS. MAKDOUGALL GREGORY’S.
DR. SLADE AND THE MISSES FOX.
Last Wednesday night Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, of 21, Green-street,
Grosvenor-square, London, gave a reception at which three of the most
remarkable mediums of modern times were present, namely, Mrs.
Jencken (Kate Fox), and Mrs. Kane (Maggie Fox, the widow of Dr.
Kane, the Arctic explorer); Dr. Slade was also among the guests.
The first of the manifestations of modern Spiritualism began through
the mediumship of the Misses Fox, at Hydesville, near Rochester,
U.S., in the year 1847, when the two instruments of the power were
mere children. Since then the phenomena have spread all over the
civilised globe, and from thirty to forty periodicals are now devoted
exclusively to the subject.
At Mrs. Gregory’s dinner party early in the evening the Misses Fox
were among the guests, and raps were plentiful the greater part of the
time. At the reception afterwards the following friends were among
those in attendance:—Lady Vere Cameron, of Lochiel, Lady Brewster,
Lady Milford, Lady Borthwick, the Hon. Mrs. Forbes, Lady Erskine,
the Hon. Mrs. Brown, Rev. Dr. Cosmo Gordon, Mrs. Gordon, the Rev.
Mr. Carpenter, the Rev. Mr. Fisher, the Rev. Mr. Haweis, Mrs.
Haweis, the Rev. Mr. Shaw, Mrs. Shaw, the Rev. W. W. Newbould,
the Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., Mr. and Mrs. Ulick Burke, Mr.
Percival, Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Miss
Fitz-Gerald, Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Cameron, Major and Mrs. Mackenzie,
Colonel Lane Fox, Mrs. and Miss Showers, Miss Rose, Mr. Buchanan,
Mr. Alexander Monro, Mrs. Barret, Mr. W. H. Coffin, Miss Coffin, Mr
Moeller, Mr. Ernest Cuenot, Mr. Barton Bennet, Dr. and Mrs. Wyld,
Dr. Slade, Miss Slade, Miss Simmons, Mr. Stanhope Templeman
Speer, M.D., Mrs. Speer, Dr. Rae, Miss Williamson, Mr. and Mrs. H.
D. Jencken, Mrs, Kane, Mr. Eyre, Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. Schletter and
Miss A. Schletter, Mr. and Mrs. Ward, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Miss
Kislingbury, Miss Emmet, Miss Otley, Miss Carleton, of Bath, and Mr.
W. H. Harrison.
Mr. G. C. Joad is now in the South of France, en route for Egypt.
The President of the Spanish Society of Spiritualists has postponed
his intended visit to London until the spring of next year.
The Haverfordwest Telegraph says:—“ There are some advantages,
after all, in possessing a classical education. Mr. Flowers, the magis¬
trate, thinks so, at any rate. The solicitors in his court are as bois¬
terous and unruly as they are in most other police-courts. He says
that when all other methods fail in silencing some obstreperous Sampson
Brass he quotes some Latin maxim. The disputant is at once stumped
up and hushed, for, of course, he does not understand one word of it,
and does not like to confess his ignorance.”
“Happily the proofs of a continued existence are frequent and of
overwhelming force. In our own time, during the last twenty years,
the manifestation of spirit existence, and the power of unseen intel¬
ligence over matter have become more familiar and more widely
known than at any former period, thus confirming the one great
central doctrine of every religion—its faith in immortality—and giving
to men the highest notions of a true and good life here, in the hope
of a never-ending enjoyment of the life to come.”—Dr, T. L. NichoU’s
Esoteric Anthropology.
Mrs. Tappan.—A Chicago correspondent writes to us:—“ It will be
of interest to Mrs. Tappan’s many friends in England to know that Mr.
Richmond, to whom she is just married, is a nephew of the Mrs. Rich*
mond who was Mrs. Tappan’s companion in England. He is a young
man of sterling character, and high standing, connected with an old
Chicago family, long identified with Spiritualism; he is in entire sym¬
pathy with her work, consequently the new relation will in no way in¬
terrupt her public ministrations. Mrs. Richmond goes from here to
San Francisco in November, filling an engagement in that city during
the winter months. She expects to return to England early next
summer.”
Writing Mediumship.—A correspondent says :—“ I enclose you a
copy of some verses by a private lady medium, who has been in the
habit of sitting, once or twice a week, for the last six months; before
these sittings were instituted, she had never written a line of verse in
her life ; since then, however, she has written one or two papers every
week, either in prose or verse. When she is influenced, her hand begins
to shake, she seizes a pencil (which is placed on the table for the pur¬
pose), and begins to write rapidly. Some of her verses are defective in
rhyme, some in meaning, but all, in my opinion and others, possessing
beautiful thoughts. They are quite unpremeditated, and before she
begins she is in entire ignorance of the subject on which she is going to
write. Many of them are signed by the name of the control. We have
had some wonderful tests. The daughter of a gentleman who was
sitting, took possession of the medium, and after writing a long message
to him, gave, as a test, the name of three other friends (his daughter’s)
known to the gentleman, but entirely unknown to the medium.” We
agree with our correspondent as to the quality of the verses; they are
rich in spiritual ideas, but the metre is faulty, and the rhyme defective,
consequently would bring down the abuse and ridicule of general news¬
papers, even if we placed the lines on record but for scientific purposes,
and said so.
200
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 24, 1876.
CorresponneiTce.
[Greatfreedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposite
to those of this journal and its readers.']
CLAIKATJDIENTS OP GENIUS, MARLOWE AND MILTON.
“ They who watch by him see not, but he sees—
Sees and exnlts. Were ever dreams like these ?
Those who watch by him hear not, but he hears;
And earth recedes, and heaven itself appears.”
From Human Life,—Rogers.
SIR)__In Indian Wisdom, by Monier Williams, is the following trans¬
lation from Bhantri-hseri, a Hindoo poet, who lived a thousand years
before Shakespeare:—
“Now for a little while a child; and now
An amorous youth; then for a season turned
Into the wealthy householder; then stripped
Of all his riches, with decrepid limbs
And wrinkled frame, man creeps towards the end
Of life’s erratic course, and, like an actor,
Passes behind death’s curtain, out of view.”
Shakespeare can hardly be supposed to have understood Sanscrit, and
to have made a free translation of the above lines in his Seven Ages ;
but that he was inspired most people will confess, though they would
be, for the most part, sorely put to it to explain what they mean by
that term when it is applied to the great poet. Spiritualists, however,
have no such difficulty, and will at once point to the now well-known
processes of spirit-writing as the more than probable means whereby
the above extraordinary coincidence accrued. Some of the spirit writings
of modern times, at any rate some of the direct writings, have been
proved to be extracts from works existing in the British Museum, or
even selections from ancient numbers of the Times newspaper; and this,
certainly, throws a very suggestive light, not only on the above coinci¬
dence of. the two—we must call them both—great poets, but very strong
presumptive evidence with respect to the probable source of all Shake¬
speare’s best plays, certainly the essentially spiritual ones, which are,
in fact, the best. Indeed, how many more like helps from Hindoo and
other sources may have accrued, we cannot guess; we, at any rate, now
know of one.
It has been asserted by an American writer—I regret that I have
not noticed his name—that there are fifteen thousand words to be found
in Shakespeare; while in the Bible there are but five thousand, six
hundred and forty-two ; and eight thousand words in Milton’s works.
Now, where could this stupendous vocabulary of Shakespeare have
come from, when we consider his early antecedents and opportunities ?
And where the leisure hours for attaining it in the days of his manhood,
when he combined the author and the actor ? And whence his won¬
drous knowledge of human nature, if he had not been prompted by
some powers greater than his own ? The Spiritualists, I think, cannot
doubt that Shakespeare was a powerful medium; and that his specialty
was that of a writing medium we have the strongest reason for
believing. While, if he were also clairaudient, he, at any rate, showed
a preference for the former gift. This is evinced in his remarks which
refer to his rival, the poet Marlowe; for, that Marlowe was his com¬
petitor for favour with their common patron, Mr. Gerald Massey has
plainly pointed out in his Shakespeare’s Sonnets and his Private
Friends, as well as in his valuable little book, Concerning Spiritualism.
It is strange how Shakespeare’s admiration breaks out even for his
rival as a writing medium, when he acknowledges that Marlowe’s
spirit was—
“By spirits taught to write
Above a mortal pitch.”
Yet when he alludes to Marlowe’s clairaudience, he speaks only of—
“Compeers by night,
Giving him aid.”
“ Compeers,” merely spirits of his own calibre, one of which was,
indeed, of a lying nature:—
“ That affable familiar ghost,
“ Which nightly gulls him with intelligence.”
I need hardly remark that the latter lines seem evidently to refer to
clairaudience, in contrast to being “ taught to write,” as well as in the
difference between the two medial powers as regards high efficacy; one
gift being “ above a mortal pitch,” and the other only on Marlowe’s own
level, or perhaps even on a lower one, “ gulling.” Clairaudience,
moreover, is likely to be prevalent during the quiet of night, which is a
fine time for “compeers’’ and “gulling” spirits to seize their oppor¬
tunity. For night implies darkness, and darkness is a good condition
for most spirits to manifest in, especially for a certain sort; and, further,
men cannot, while in a normal state, write during darkness, though their
sense of hearing, whether of words of deception or of instruction, is then
most acute. For the above causes, the poet Marlowe may, I think, be
safely set down as a clairaudient medium of genius, though he
was, according to Shakespeare’s words, a medium for inspirational
writing also.
Milton’s mediumship was also in part clairaudient, and in part
manifested through inspirational writing; and certainly, in his case, no
moral inferiority is implied in the former gift, for both methods of Mil¬
ton’s control emanated from the same high source, that is from the same
spirit, his “ Celestial Patroness.” Witness his Paradise Lost, Book ix.,
where he sings—
“I now must change
These notes to tragick 
If answerable style I can obtain
Of my Celestial- Patroness, who deigns
Her nightly visitation unimplor’d,
And dictates to me slumb’ring; or inspires
Easie my unpremeditated verse.”
(j In Milton’s case, the clairaudient dictation, whilst slumbering, evi-
)! dently prevailed, as the more suitable mediumship of a blind man with
(I presumed good memory for retaining night thoughts. As he tells us, he
|| set aside subjects which, at that period, were made the usual theme for
11 verse, in which common taste hejacknowledges he was “ nor skill’d nor
|! studious.” And thinking, as he did, that the treatment of such trivial
I j things could bring no honour to his name, he adds,—
II “ Higher argument
j | Remains, sufficient of itself to raise that name.”
j By which he meant his own name. But he wisely adds,—
(j “If all be mine
|| Not hers who brings it nightly to my ear l ’
| I majr hereafter show by your favour that clairaudience has not been
>| a rare gift among men and women of genius, nor is it in the present day
{j an uncommon one among many who do not aspire to so high a title; but
11 it is a gift which has its drawbacks as well as its benefits. And among
11 the chief of the drawbacks we may mention not only the pains mental and
|| bodily, which that gift may bring with it, but also the danger it opens
! out of mediums who are subject to it being urged or “gulled ” by dicta-
)j tion contrary to reason and common sense; while it may be, and fre-
j quently is, quite otherwise in its tendency. Clairaudient experience
has also an especial attribute in common with clairvoyance, that of
j occurring almost always spontaneously, and often when least expected.
Clairaudience is perhaps the spiritual manifestation to which least of
all others can be attributed the imputation or the merit of amenability
to the-medium’s will or seeking.
By the contemplation of the above subject we see who or what are
often really, to use the words of Mr. Crookes, the true “ builders of
| reputations.” Let me, however, here proffer a caution to those who are
endowed with the gift of clairaudience in the present day. Do not, as a
| general rule, mention it to your family doctor; it will certainly irritate
[ him, unless he be an exceptional person; he would not probably under-
| stand it; would be pretty sure to murmur something about hallucina-
I tion at least, and the medium’s confidence might end, as it has possibly
| ended ere this, in a catastrophe adverse to habeas corpus.
  Scrutator.
ARE THEY OCCULT AND CRAFTY DEVICES?
j Sir,—By many High Church ministers it is believed that an infant is
j a child of Satan until, by the sprinkling of water upon it by the clergy-
I man at baptism, it is made a member of the Church, a child of God, and
! an inheritor of the Kingdom of Heaven, and the minister is paid for the
(| transaction. By this proceeding of the clergyman, a magical act is per-
! formed, supposed to produce a sudden change in the condition, therefore,
| i in the prospects of the child. Supposing this to be only inference, and
(i that he cannot, by any known method, prove to matter-of-fact minds
) | that benefit follows, is he not to be considered as taking money under
j false pretences ? Fact is truth, surmise or influence may not be.
(i A Roman Catholic priest teaches that on his consecrating the wafer
>j partaken of in the sacrament, it is changed into the body and blood of
h Christ, and the participants are partakers of good thereby. Is not this
jl to be deemed a magical or occult act, for the exercise of which he is
l| paid, and if it cannot be really proved to be true in some clear manner
| j by its effects, is he not to be considered guilty of receiving money under
I! false pretences.
j The priest receives money for praying the souls of people out of pur-
|j gatory; it is a money transaction. If unable to prove that souls are
! | thus delivered from purgatory, say by their returning to mankind to
n make it known and to bless the priesthood for their services, or by any
(j other substantial way, to the truth-loving or matter-of-fact mind, will
>j he not be regarded as a receiver of money under false pretences ?
| A bishop, in the course of his duties, is paid for ordaining men to the
II ministry, and when doing this, lays his hand on them after apostolical
! fashion, to impart the Holy Ghost. But, if the ordained, after apos-
11 tolical fashion, give not proof that they have received the Holy Ghost, and
i I of its power, by speaking with tongues, &c., is not such bishop to be
| i rightly regarded as receiving money under false pretences, and as exer-
(| cising an occult power he really possesses not ? and so it may be said
I i of some other things. I write not this in the spirit of irreverence, but
II as a sober inquirer into truth.
(I Dr. Slade is known to place a slate on the table with a bit of pencil
) | under it, avowing the writing will not be done by himself but by some
/ j power in connection with him, but outside himself. His hand will be
11 clearly seen to be immovable with the fingers on the end of the slate, and
11 the fingers of another person on the other end, pressing it to the table;
(i writing is produced under the slate. Does he not thus afford clearer
}j proof of an occult power attending, and independently acting in concert
11 with him, than do the above-named in connection with their church
(| ceremonials ?
|j If what the conjurors say of the doings of our mediums be true, that
}j they are but tricksters, how eminently superior to the conjuror’s in-
| j genuity and originality must our mediums be in having for some years
)| past supplied the conjurors with the most taking and money-making ox
)! their tricks ? "What ungrateful dogs they are. W. T.
EXPERIENCES OF BEGINNERS.
Sir,—I am but a recent convert to Spiritualism, and would ask some
more experienced Spiritualists kindly to give me the benefit of their
experience. "What I wish to know is, how to make the most of small
means.
I have been sitting lately at a small table, with two others, one of
them undoubtedly a medium, but what I should call an undeveloped
one, so we cannot expect much ; yet with a bright fire burning, and the
gas turned low, we get tilts in plenty, and in the dark occasional finger
touches; the raps are at present too faint to be made use of, and can
generally only be heard by placing the ear to the table.
Our modes of communicating with the spirits are for the most part
Nov. 24, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
201
two. First, we arrange the letters (from a box of letters), from A to Z,
on the table; one of the party runs a finger down the letters, and the
table tilts at the required one. Our second and quicker method is to
write the letters of the alphabet on a piece of paper placed on a book,
to raise it level with the upper surface of planchette, which, with a
pointer attached for the purpose, points in rapid succession to the re¬
quired letters. Both of these methods we find easier and more satis¬
factory than what one of our party calls “ bawling out the letters.”
If any of your correspondents would kindly give us some hints as to
the best way of making use of the small power at our command, we
should be most thankful. An Old Lady.
October 24th. — -
DR. MONCK AND THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Sir,—In reference to the case of Dr. Monck, one or two members of
our Council have requested me to state that if they had been present at
the meeting when questions were asked about Dr. Monck, they should
have gladly testified to his powers as a medium, from personal acquaint¬
ance with him, and they are fearful that he may suffer from the absence
of any expression of opinion in his favour.
In complying with this request,, allow me also to point out that no
word was uttered at that meeting in disparagement of Dr. Monck’s
mediumship. The Council was asked to define its position towards Dr.
Monck, and events were stated exactly as they had occurred.
Emily Ktslingbury, Secretary, B.N.A.S.
38j Great Russell-stroet, Nov. 21st, 1876.
[We have received several letters in favour and disfavour of Dr. Monck,
suitable for submission to lawyers in the present stage of the proceedings.—
Ed.]
DR. SLADE.
Sir,—An article appeared in the Saturday Review, of the 28th ult.,
under the heading, “ A Rogue and a Vagabond,” in which the circum¬
stances connected with the Bow-street trial were misrepresented in a
way which seemed to show the most perfect ignorance of the facts of
the case. I wrote to enlighten the Editor as to the incompetence of
his correspondent to deal with such matters. The Saturday Review,
being wise in its generation, never publishes correspondence ; but, if it
would profit by the hints thus received, it would show even greater
wisdom ; it does not appear to do so, for, last week, another rabid and
ignorant article on Spiritualism appeared, apparently from the same
pen. A. Joy.
20th November, 1.876. - ■ -
SPIRITUALISM In SUNDERLAND;
Sir,—The several attempts to establish circles here have met with
but indifferent success in some instances, but in others the cause of
Spiritualism has been strengthened. Two mediums have been developed,
one of whom, Mr. V. A. Pinkney, who has very high controls, has
written in Gtai'eek and phonography, although having no knowledge of
either;
The UMvfemeht, however, has been lately greatly advanced, owing to
Mr. Joseph Skipsey, the Northumbrian Seer, paying us a flying visit.
On Sunday (the 12th inst.) Mr. Joseph Skipsey became the guest of Mr,
John Rutherford, a gentleman who for many years has taken a great
interest in Spiritualistic progress. A few of the friends interested in
the movement were introduced to Mr. Skipsey, and his delineations
were wonderfully successful.
Clairvoyance is a gift devoutly to be wished for, as of all the
phenomena Spiritualism has elicited this is unquestionably the most
valuable, as it reveals in a wondrous manner the soul attributes in¬
vesting man’s spirit, even whilst in the flesh. According to the celebrated
seer, Andrew Jackson Davis, clairvoyance is a property common to all
humanity, although in some cases it may not be developed in this earth-
life, owing to the barriers of physical temperament, perverted education,
or other circumstances. Investigators should not confine all their
researches to accounting for physical manifestations, when such a
beautiful and highly convincing phase of Spiritualism can be readily
developed. Circles should endeavour to have mediums developed in
this valuable direction, and towards the consummation of this object the
presence of Mr. Skipsey would be of material aid, as the proofs he
adduces are in an instant quite convincing that clairvoyance is a reality.
Mr. Skipsey is a highly intelligent gentleman, a poet, and some of his
literary productions have been published, gaining for him much praise.
The seer is highly developed in the intellectual and moral regions of the
brain, possesses a good physical appearance, whilst his faculties of vene¬
ration and benevolence are exceedingly prominent, his reflective and per -
ceptive faculties being harmoniotis. This gentleman has been the means
of spreading the truth of Spiritualism over a wide area to a praise¬
worthy extent. Mr. Skipsey is principally famed for the psychometrical
phase of clairvoyance; his visions are strangely accurate. A piece of
hair from the head of a lady resident in Sunderland was sent to Mr.
Skipsey at his own home, when instantly his peculiar gift conjured up a
vision of the lady and his delineation of the lady’s intellectual nature,
physical appearance and demeanour, were strictly correct, but his state¬
ment with regard to the absence of two front teeth, was a puzzler to the
lady’s friends, who thought that on this point he must be mistaken. A
few days after, when Mr. Skipsey came to Sunderland, the lady was ap -
pealed to, and she acknowledged that the description was exact, as two
of her real teeth were missing, but were replaced with artificial ones;
this of course was only known to the lady’s husband; hence the apparent
discrepancy. The psychological explanation of the seer was that the
artificial teeth could not be expected to throw off so much of her per¬
sonal influence as the real ones, and, consequently, the vision in this
respect was imperfect. Mr. Skipsey points out that his spirit-guide is a
lady, and that previous to beholding visions he is susceptible to an in¬
fluence as if oil were being poured over his face. Mr. Skipsey . is in
every respect remarkable as a seer, and is yet destined to achieve great
things. All his delineations up to the present have been singularly
successful. He has had visions of the spirit-world; but, from his
extremely sympathetic nature, his principal visitants from the ethereal
regions have been Spirits whose lives were unfortunate on this earth,
and they are attracted to him for aid.
A Sunderland Spiritualist. '
SPIRITUALISM IN BRIGHTON.
To the Editor of the “ Sussex Daily News.”
i Sir,—I know nothing whatever of professional mediumship, but a
Spiritualist friend, not a medium, wishing to give us a convincing
| proof of the truth of spirit intercourse, brought to our private apart-
i ments in Brighton, an almost uneducated young lad, who, in a trance,
i discoursed to us for fifty minutes on a subject chosen by ourselves that
| afternoon, when neither he nor our friend was present. The subject
was “The Communion of Saints,” and he proved from the Bible, the
Brahminical and Buddhist writings, the writings of Confucius and
others, that what is now called Spiritualism has been believed in in all
ages. Can the unbelievers tell us where this young lad got all. his
' I lore ? Not one of the limited company knew it, and so could not have
I influenced him. Afterwards, the medium was influenced by another
\ | spirit, that of a German-American, when his voice completely changed,
i i and he spoke with a German accent, answering all sorts of questions or
'I subjects of which he (the medium) is entirely ignorant. The spirit,
[ | before bidding us good night, said he would close with a poem on any
i subject we might choose. We chose “ The Love of God,” when, in the
II loftiest diction, without the slightest hesitation, but still with a soupqon
| i of the German accent, he recited a poem of about a hundred lines,
i i They can be no evil spirits who, in such a way, discourse on such sub-
I jects (see St. Luke xi. and xix.). And again I say, the young lad, who
,j is not a professional medium, is incapable of it by himself. This is a
II short narrative of facts, which were entirely convincing to us, sceptics
' | as we were before, as we could account for the phenomena on no other
!i ground than that of spirit influence.
An Inquirer after Truth.
)| DR. FORBES WINSLOW’S PAMPHLET.
Sir,—Pray kindly allow me to deny your “ soft impeachment,” in to*
(! day’s Spiritualist, of “ soon having made the madhouses too hot to hold
i me.” Not that I should regret having done so, but because it is most
11 dangerous for the public to imagine the feat to be a practicable one.
(j Nothing that a patient can himself do short of escape, which is rarely
( achieved, can procure his liberation from an asylum. If he protests
> | his sanity, and remonstrates, he is adjudged an excitable, troublesome
(! subject, and is punished; if he takes things quietly, and makes the best
I of it, which was my course, he is adjudged morbidly apathetic, and in-
| i different to those for whose society his heart may be breaking in secret,
( I and the Commissioners decide that he is best where he is. My own
(l deliverance was solely and exclusively due to the accidental resignation
II of a trustee. The settlement authorised me alone to nominate a
(i successor. I being under certificate, the Court of Chancery was
j | applied to; hence followed, as a matter of course, the order for an inqui-
(j sition, in view of which the Lunacy Commissioners had me released on
| probation, and thus I regained partial liberty after fifteen months of
) \ horrible and degrading suffering in four different asylums.
) | I make no apology to the public for introducing such personal matter,
(| for it is right that they should know their danger. But for the trustee-
|! ship, or some similar extraneous incident, there.can be no doubt that my
) i incarceration would have lasted for life, for I would never have disowned
(| Spiritualism, or acknowledged passive writing to be an insane delusion ;
j | and, as I can prove by irrefragable evidence, my doing so was the con-
(| dition attached by the Commissioners to giving consent for my release.
] Indeed, having once committed themselves to the judicial utterance,
|j “All Spiritualists are mad,” they could scarcely release me without my
/1 recantation. And this induces me to observe that, with a
(! slight change of formula, Dr. Forbes Winslow’s statement in
|} The Standard may be received as correct. If, instead of saying that
) | “ Spiritualism is filling English and American madhouses with luna-
(| tics,” he had said, “ The doctors are everywhere confounding the
11 mediumistic temperament with insanity, and filling their houses with
(j undeveloped and unacknowledged mediums, who are thus gradually
(j driven mad,’’he would have been right. I have myself no doubt that
[ i of the 80,000 persons incarcerated in English and Welsh asylums, there
11 are many thousands suffering from misunderstood, disorderly mediumship.
(| The medial temperament is far more general than is usually thought,
> | and the phenomena of clairaudience, clairvoyance, &c., manifest them-
(I selves in persons who- have never even heard of modern Spiritualism,
s | or are utterly ignorant of its principles. If such patients are orthodox,
j | they probably refer these phenomena to one or other of Christendom’s
|( i great spirit-entities—God or the Devil, and imagine themselves divinely
||i inspired or demoniacally possessed. Many suffer acutely from their
|)| abnormal experiences; they seek relief in confidential utterances to a
i)j friend; the friend is alarmed and consults the doctor, and, hey,
\{\ presto! “ care and treatment” are declared indispensable; the certifi-
jjj cates are given, and the poor wretch finds himself in a madhouse,
i \ I where, as you so truly observe, he will very probably shortly become
j I really insane. I left behind me at Brislington two patients, one in the
i)j prime and vigour of manhood, another with silvery hairs, against whom
j(j there was, I believe, no allegation except that they “ heard voices” and
| j “ imagined spirits near them nor could I ever detect in either any
sign of insanity. The certificate of a poor woman incarcerated by her
m husband, at Exeter, opens thus: “She says that she has seen and
jji conversed with her mother, who has been dead some years. She says
lh that her mother’s Bible has been stolen, while it is beside her on the
202 THE SPIRITUALIST. Nov. 24, 1876.
bed. Her talk is irrational, and she says she sees many supernatural
visions.” On this certificate the poor woman endured many months’
incarceration as a pauper lunatic; but, happily, she did not become
mad. She is a refined and well-educated person for her station, but
had never heard of modern Spiritualism. It will be noticed that, apart
from Spiritualism, the only “insane delusion” alleged in this case is
concerning the identity of a book, of which the doctor could know
nothing ; yet this certificate was submitted to the Lunacy Commissioners,
and passed by them as adequate 1 Anything, or nothing, is so deemed,
by them where conscious or unconscious mediumship is concerned. I
could adduce numberless other instances to show that the present pro¬
secutions of professional mediums are mild, in comparison with the
persecution of Spiritualism itself, as opposed to materialism, by the
madness-mongers and common doctors and Commissioners in Lunacy*
but I must not trespass further on your space. Of one thing I will
assure my fellow-believers, that safety lies in publicity and combination
alone. Let every one essentially a Spiritualist avow his belief boldly,
and enrol himself as a member of some organised body; and let us all,
despite minor difi'erences, staunchly stand by one another; so only
shall we triumph in this day of danger. Louisa Lowe,
Hon. Sec. to the Lunacy Law Reform Association, 63, Berners-street,
SPIRITUALISM AT THE EAST-END.
Sir,—It was arranged, at the Conference held here on Nov. 19th,
that the Sunday evening meetings should be held as heretofore, for
lectures and trance addresses; also, that a developing circle should be
formed to meet on Mondays, and a seance held on Wednesdays, at
eight o’clock.
The developing circle will be strictly limited to twelve sitters, but all
subscribers will be privileged to bring one friend to Wednesday’s seance,
Understanding they are responsible for their conduct. Seven gentlemen
have entered their names for the developing circle, therefore it will be
necessary (to make an harmonious circle) that the rest should be ladies.
There will be a meeting on Monday evening, Nov. 27th, at eight o’clock,
for the purpose of making final arrangements. All persons desirous of
joining are requested to attend, or to forward their names before that
date. E. W. Wallis.
15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end, London.
THE DUCIE CLUB, MANCHESTER.
As a member of the Ducie Club, I have great pleasure in informing
you that I have been requested by the committee to order the regular
supply of the Spiritualist newspaper, which they consider ought to be
found wherever intelligence is not made the slave of public opinion or
fashionable prejudice. Please to accept this step not only as an ex¬
pression of their unanimous approval of the conduct of your paper, but
also as a protest against the constant misrepresentations of unprincipled
daily journals, and their unfair treatment of the phenomena and its
mediums, by totally ignoring the powerful evidence given by eminent
scientific men. C. Reimebs.
Manchester, Nov. 1st, 1876.
“ PAID MEDIUMS.”
Sir,—In your Spiritualist, No. 220, for November 10th, there is an
editorial article on “ Paid Mediums,” in which the following paragraph
occurs: . “ When the newspaper called the Christian Spiritualist was
started some years ago, the editor began with a vigorous article on the
energetic steps he was about to take against paid mediums. We, in
return, printed a quiet little paragraph to the effect that the only
difference between paid mediums and paid preachers was this—that,
whilst both received remuneration for their services, the medium could
show proof of being in communication with the next world, whilst the
paid preacher could not do so, but gave his own assertion to that effect.
The editor of the Christian Spiritualist was a well-known dissenting
preacher, and the practical effect of our comment was, that not another
word against remuneration for mediumship appeared in his columns
during the many years’ subsequent existence of the Christian Spirit¬
ualist.”
Now, as I happen to be “ the editor” above referred to, I should like
to say a word by way of comment; and my first word is, that I do like
fair play. If I had to meet Satan himself in mortal combat, I would
not | stab him in the back,” or “ hit him below the belt.” The quota¬
tion I make above from your paper would lead your readers to suppose
that I had ceased to write against paid mediumship chiefly because I
was confronted by you with a parallel between “paid mediums and
paid preachers.” But what are the facts ? Having said my say about
paid mediumship, I did not continue the subject; and, as I am not
at all ashamed of what I did say, I beg to fefer your readers to
the Christian Spiritualist for March, 1871 (now published by Gr. S.
Sexton, 75, Fleet-street), in which they will find what I did really
say on this subject. Now I distinctly deny that the parallel you seek to
set up between “paid mediums and paid preachers” is a fair one,
because the circumstances are not sufficiently similar to make the
parallel exact; and, secondly, in answer to the insinuation that not
another word against remuneration for mediumship appeared in the
Christian Spiritualist, the inference left for your readers to draw being
that as I was “ a well-known dissenting preacher,” I could not, for shame’s
sake, say anything more, I beg to call your attention to the fact that the
following words occur in the very article in the Christian Spiritualist in
which my views on paid mediumship were expressed:—“ We may add as
a further justification of any words we have here used, that although we
pursue the work of the Christian ministry we are doing so without fee or
reward; and, not only so, but with actual money loss year by year;
and all for the sake of that perfect independence, which the Apostle
Paul himself so dearly prized.” From this extract you and your readers
will see that my not pursuing the subject of paid mediumship after your
article, could arise from no personal desire to shield myself from incon¬
sistency. “ Let the galled jade wince : our withers are unrung.” I
have no money interest, direct or indirect, in the Christian ministry, or
in Spiritualism; and both in the one case and the other I simply say
what I believe to be true, leaving it to be received or rejected as the
hearer or the reader may determine. I have no desire to interfere with
another man’s perfect liberty of judging and speaking, but I will at the
same time take very good care, as long as there are pauper stones to
break on the roadside, and pauper bread to eat at the workhouse, that
no man or woman shall interfere with mine.
Frederic Rowland Young.
Rose Cottage, Swindon, November 17, 1876.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
THE SECOND OF THE WINTER MEETINGS.
Last Monday night, at one of the ordinary fortnightly meetings of
the British National Association of Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell*
street, London, Dr. Carter Blake, Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy
at Westminster Hospital, presided.
In the absence of Mr. J. W. Gray, C.E., who had intended to read a
paper, but was absent from illness, Mr. W. H. Harrison read one upon
“The Work of the Scientific Research Committee of the National
Association.” This paper is printed in full upon another page of the
present number of The Spiritualist.
At the close of the reading of the paper the Chairman stated that
he believed that there was nothing in the new arrangements which
would prevent the reading of memoirs at those meetings upon any
subject connected with Spiritualism ; they were not intended for the
consideration exclusively of papers dealing with the scientific branches
of the subject,
PHYSIOLOGICAL CHANGES IN THE BODIES OF MEDIUMS DURING SEANCES.
Mr. Simmons said : I quite agree with Mr. Harrison in the main
| points of his paper, but from my own experience am disposed to think
i that it would be very difficult to tabulate the conditions incidental to
| mediumship, for I know different mediums who have power to obtain
the same manifestations under opposite conditions. For instance,
| when Dr. Dunn—the medium who once visited England with Mr.
Peebles—goes into a trance, he seems to be like a person in a high
fever, and his pulse runs up to over a hundred. Dr. Slade’s condition
varies with the spirits influencing him; some are able to operate upon
him far more easily than others, chiefly because they are accustomed to
the work. I know one who entrances him so quickly that he will
stop him when in conversation in the middle of a word of one
syllable, then speak through his lips for a time, and upon leaving him
Dr. Slade will recommence his conversation, and begin with the last
half of the word he had been prevented from speaking. Other spirits
are slower in approaching him. You see a change in his eye, then his
head begins to sway about, and he gradually comes under control.
There are changes in the temperature of his body when sitting for
physical manifestations. Shortly before a seance begins, and before he
enters the seance room, he begins to get cold, and he recognises that
change in his feelings as a symptom that he is in a condition to sit. It
seems to me that the same conditions do not apply to different mediums ;
still it would be interesting to make an attempt to classify the con¬
ditions.
Mrs. Hallock: I was very pleased with the paper; it was condensed,
and there was enough in it to form matter for several articles. I have
had very little experience as to the physiological conditions apper¬
taining to mediumship. Although I have seen most of the best mediums
in the United States once or twice, I have not been with them long
enough to make any deductions. At home we sit regularly, and culti¬
vate our spiritual nature as well as our earthly nature. I think the
cultivation of both sets of faculties to be necessary for the perfect
development of any human being. I think that we have a spiritual
self distinct from the body, with its own eyes and ears, or powers of
perception, and that this spiritual body is not developed from material
substance, but is something entirely different; this conclusion, how¬
ever, may perhaps be an assumption, for I cannot prove it. The
spirits tell us that the cause of all things is in spirit, that matter is
death itself, and all life and cause of action are to be found in spirit.
This is, of course, quite opposed to the opinions held by materialists,
but our experience tends to prove that such teachings are true. Many
spirits come to us; they tell us a great deal of truth, and some false¬
hoods.
Mr. Newton said : My feeling is that it is important to work up to
the ideas entertained by Mrs. Hallock along the lines of our present
sciences, and to reach those altitudes by purely scientific methods.
When this has been done we may perhaps be able to accept the specu¬
lations of Mrs. Hallock as facts. I attach importance to mechanical
experiments; I have had myself some of the best tests through a
private medium ; recently through his mediumship a piano was played
upon very well while the lid was closed and locked.
Miss Kislingbury : Mr. Simmons has told us that on account of the
varying conditions which affect each medium it would be difficult to
predict the conditions which would influence other mediums; but if
the task is so difficult the overcoming of the difficulties would make the
work all the more interesting, and probably in the end we should arrive
at some common law underlying the whole of the manifestations.
When in Paris I was told of some interesting physiological observa¬
tions connected with mediums. M. Chavee told me that he had applied
a thermometer to different parts of the brains of writing and trance
mediums, and the general result was that the temperature of the brain
varied on the two sides of each head. When I went with Mr. Joy to a
seance with Dr. Slade two slates were on the table at the same time;
Nov. 24, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
203
one was a common slate and the other our folding slate. After a time
Dr. Slade became very cold, and we heard the sound of writing ; then
Dr. Slade gradually became so cold that he seemed to have lost all
vitality. Dr. Pardon made many observations and experiments in
connection with the mediuraship of Miss Cook, but has not yet pub¬
lished his results. Mr. Blackburn once told me that while he was
sitting with a medium, and the upper part of a materialised spirit had
been formed, the hand of the medium was cold, while that of the spirit
was warm. It seems to me that it is possible to examine and tabulate
facts such as these.
Mr. T. H. Edmands: I think that the Research Committee should
not exclude from these meetings any topics to which we have been
accustomed. I also think that the tests put to mediums should be
applied in a scientific form, and that we should be able to repeat the
results at will for the benefit of new inquirers. All the tests in the
world spoken of by others would not have convinced me of the truth
of these phenomena; I should have felt bound to prove them for my¬
self. (Hear, hear.) I had heard much of Dr. Slade’s manifestations,
and did not doubt the words of my friends, still I felt it to be necessary
to see them for myself. I went to him with the statements of Messrs.
Lankester and Donkin fresh in my mind, and I am as certain as that I
am a living man, that the assertions which they made against him bore
no relation to my similar results. I went to Dr. Slade with full know¬
ledge of what had been sworn, and found it to be totally opposed to
any rational explanation of the facts which I witnessed. (Applause.)
The Chairman: I think there can be no doubt that, with some
mediums, two or three minutes before a seance takes place a consider¬
able coldness, tangible to observers, spreads over the finger-tips, and
other extremities of the body, and that with other mediums such
appears not to be the case. I have watched Mr. Eglinton, and with
him there appears to be no change in temperature. Perhaps the
observations in his case were not accurately made, for no instruments
were used to indicate the temperature; still there were no variations
of importance. In Dr. Slade’s case extreme coldness takes place im¬
mediately before a seance. There is another question which is related
to that of temperature—namely, that of the respiration of mediums.
In the cases of Messrs. Eglington, "Williams, and Herne, stertorous
breathing, which has not been associated with the normal action of
the lungs, takes place ; the noise is something like that which would
be produced after putting a wet sponge in the mouth; it is a noise
very difficult to imitate. This is a matter which deserves careful
future observation. The instrument invented by a French chemist to
measure the force of thought, as indicated by variations of the flow of
blood, might be of some use in the investigation of the physiological
conditions appertaining to mediumship; that instrument was brought
under the notice of the French Academy of Sciences two years ago,
and the experiments of its inventor have been repeated lately by Dr.
Hill Norris, of Birmingham, who recently visited Dr. Slade, and ob¬
tained most satisfactory results, which I hope he will publish. Miss
Kislingbury has referred to the observations made by Dr. Purdon on
the physiological conditions appertaining to the manifestations observed
in the presence of that most satisfactory and remarkable medium,
Miss Cook. We are all thankful to Dr. Purdon for having made those
valuable observations, and can only blame him that they are not now
before us; when he is amongst us we hope that he will furnish us
with the details for consideration. Mr. Blackburn’s observation in the
case wherein the spirit form was warm while the medium was cold,.
points towards the truth which I have been trying to impress upon
some of you—that a separation of form, under certain conditions, takes
place, and that the second form is built up of forces abstracted from
the body of the medium.
Mrs. Hallock: Dr. Hallock has had extensive experience in this
matter, and he has come to the conclusion that it is doubtful whether
any person has medial power unless his hands become cold in the early
stages of the sitting. Dr. Hallock knew much about mesmerism, and
had tried many experiments in psychology before he knew anything
about Spiritualism, and his test of real sensitiveness was that the
individual’s hand, in the earlier stages of the phenomena, exhibited a
coldness; I suppose it was the same with the other extremities. If
the person’s hands remained warm nothing very satisfactory was
obtained from him. What say you, Mr. Simmons 1
Mr. Simmons: I think that such is generally the case.
Mrs. Hallock : If we knew more about the manifestations, I agree
that we should have a very great power of checking imposture,
because the variations in the temperature of the body, and physio¬
logical changes of a like kind, could not be made at will by a conjurer.
If these physiological laws are applied to test the reality of the
mediumship of Dr. Slade, I am sure that he will pass through the
ordeal with the most unmitigated success. (Hear, hear.) Any judge
of human nature, outside Spiritualism, looking at Dr. Slade, and
talking with him, would soon come to the conclusion that he was not a
tricky man. (Applause.)
Mr. Simmons : In reference to what Miss Kislingbury has said, I
have often noticed that one side of Dr. Slade will be warm, and the
other cold at the same time. He is very different when under the in¬
fluence of separate controls. One spirit who controls him claims to
have lived in Tennessee; he alleges himself to have been a Southerner,
and he has inspired Dr. Slade to speak at public meetings. An hour
before the meeting Dr. Slade may have been haggard and tired, but,
just before he begins to speak his eyes flash, and the colour comes into
his face. There is another manner in which he is affected. Some¬
times he is unpleasantly influenced by the control of strange spirits,
and when they succeed in writing through his mediumship he is very
much exhausted. I can tell almost an hour beforehand when one of
these strange spirits is coming ; the blood settles under his nails, he
feels sick, and when these symptoms appear I conclude that something
unusual is going to take place, but do not make my remarks to him on
[j the point. This was particularly the case when one gentleman had
11 writing in six different languages on the slate; after the seance was
11 over we had to give stimulants to Dr. Slade.
[| Miss Kislingbury: Was there anything peculiar about Dr. Slade
11 before Mr. Lankester went in ?
M Mr. Simmons : No, he was holding a sitting, and several others were
11 waiting for their turn. Di\ Slade took Mr. Lankester in at once with-
11 out pausing to rest.
'i The Chairman said : I have become convinced that the influence
, | calling itself “ Owasso ” has an existence as a separate entity capable of
i j moving objects, that these results are involuntary so far as Dr. Slade is
'I concerned. In reference to Miss Kislingbury’s question, it was my
i! good or evil fortune to see Dr. Slade an hour after Lankester’s sitting,
i! which I look upon as one of the brightest incidents in the career of
11 those who are investigating psychology. Slade said to me, Two very
11 stupid men have been here this afternoon.” He did not give their
11 names very clearly, for I did not recognise them at the time. He
) \ further informed me that they were going away with absurd ideas. I
I i said to him, “ You say that two foolish individuals have been here.
II Set your mind at rest. The population of London I believe to be about
}j 2,300,000.” (Laughter.)
i i Mr. W. H. Harrison: Mr. Simmons has said that physiological con-
> | ditions sometimes differ widely in two different mediums who obtain
i the same manifestations; I am aware that certain classes of phenomena
i ] split themselves into two orders, but the why and the wherefore of
11 such differences will very soon be found out by observation, and be
11 reduced to law. In consequence of having attended such a vast number
i ] of seances lam able to state that there are great similarities in the mode
I i and order of development of the same phenomena through different
^ [ mediums. So much is this the case that I cau sometimes say to a
II medium who gets particular manifestations, “ You can obtain such and
'i such new manifestations with ease by sitting for them.” I am also
! | sometimes able to tell a medium that he will not get a new manifesta-
i j tion he desires if he sits for it for a year. Interesting and unexpected
'I results are attainable by closely studying the manifestations; for in-
11 stance, at first sight it would appear difficult to prove any relationship
i i between the manifestations which occur in the presence of a writing
I j medium and the materialisations which take place through another
II sensitive; writing mediumship, indeed, is not usually classed among
11 physical manifestations at all. Once I wrote and cunningly secured a
[ I letter in an envelope with no address outside, and enclosed it in another
11 envelope to Mr. Mansfield, the New York test medium. The name of
11 the departed person for whom the secured letter was intended was kept
! | from the knowledge of the medium, unless he had the power to read
11 clairvoyantly the sealed note, and there were eight questions in the
11 letter to the spirit, each question numbered. I know the various
[ | methods once used by Post-office experts to open sealed letters without
11 detection, and took care that by no subtle craft or device—to use a
11 foreign phrase now being forcibly introduced into science—could Mans-
[ | field get at the contents of the letter. In obtaining replies- to such
11 communications, he professes to sit in a room alone, to place his left
11 hand on the letter, until, in a short time, his right hand, with a pencil
[ I in it, automatically gives the reply. When the answer arrived in
i! England, T found that each of my eight questions had been accurately
11 answered in detail and separately, and that the proper names mentioned
j therein were known to and repeated by the responding intelligence;
i! but on critically examining the answers I discovered that they gave no
11 information which could not have been gathered from my questions,
j | There was thus no evidence that the reply came from the spirit by
11 whom it was professed to be sent. It then occurred to me that a year
] I or two previously Mr. Blackburn, of Manchester, had used various
I! subtle crafts and devices, with the aid of some of his Manchester
11 friends, in securing a letter so that it could not be opened without their
11 knowledge ; this letter was sent to Mansfield, and a categorical reply
) i received to all the questions in it. I asked Mr. Blackburn to lend me
j the reply, which had very much astonished his friends, for they ad-
I' | mitted that the original letter had not been opened. On examining the
reply, it was palpable that the communicating intelligence had displayed
no knowledge of Mr. Blackburn’s departed relative, except that which
had been picked up from his questions. Now for the relationship of
these things to the materialisation manifestations. One day Prince
Wittgenstein sent a letter to England asking various questions of the
spirit Katie King ; the letter was enclosed in an envelope, sealed with
five seals, and he asked that the spirit would reply to it and at the same
I time return him the original letter unopened. This letter was sent by
him in the first instance to Mr. Crookes, who put it in a second
| envelope and sealed that with various seals, after which it was
| handed to Miss Cook. The spirits told her to place it on a table
near her bedside; in the morning the answer was found, written
by Katie King, and informing Prince Wittgenstein that she was not
much accustomed to that kind of work, but to show him that she had
read his letter, she would write him a copy of it. Here followed an
exact copy, word for word, of a long, closely written letter, which ex-
|i tended over three or four sides of a sheet of note-paper. Then
11 she proceeded to reply to it, but showed no more knowledge
)! of Prince Wittgenstein or his affairs than had been gathered from
(! his letter, or than had been within the previous knowledge of.
) | the medium and her spirits. Here, then, we have the same kind of
) | manifestation as with Mr. Mansfield; but in the one case the writing
] | was done by Katie King, who has been proved on certain occasions to
j | have possessed a temporarily materialised body separate from that of
|| Miss Cook, whilst in the other case we have the same thing done
through writing mediumship. Perhaps the difference between the
two cases was merely one of will-power, and that had the communi-
| eating intelligence exercised more influence over Mr. Mansfield, it
might have itself appeared in a temporarily materialised form just like
the spirit attendant upon Miss Cook. One of the chief objects of my
204
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 24, 1876.
paper is to strongly express the opinion that the phenomena of
mesmerism and physiology are far more closely related to the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism than are the more exact sciences of light
and electricity. I think that by the application of mechanics to
spiritual phenomena less headway can be made than in an attempt to
investigate photography by means of mechanics. In inquiring into
photography a knowledge of light and chemistry is useful rather than
of mechanics; and on the same principle, if the Scientific Research
Committee were to attack spiritual phenomena, by means of physiology
and mesmerism, they would make rapid headway, whereas the road on
which the Committee is now travelling might well, I think, be labelled
“no thoroughfare.” Mrs. Hallock speaks of spirit as something
altogether different from matter, whereas in everything else in nature
we see continuity, a gradual passage of one thing into another. For
instance, there are some organisms holding such intermediate positions
between the animal and vegetable world that it is difficult to tell to
which, they belong. The materialist who assumes the evolution of
intelligence from matter is consistent; he introduces no great break in
the order of nature ; still his positiou is based at root upon assump¬
tions. In like manner we, I think, should assume that what is called
the material world is the outcome of mental and physical conditions,
and strong experimental and theoretical evidence can be brought for¬
ward to prove this position, which does away with matter in the vulgar
sense altogether. As to the changes in the temperature of the bodies
of mediums, while the writing is being produced upon Dr. Slade’s
slates his hands grow colder and colder. One morning, after he had
given a very long seance to Professor Barrett, he came out complaining
bitterly of the cold. I then pointed out to Colonel Lane Fox,-and to
six or seven other callers present, that his hands were as white as a
sheet of paper, and when I felt them they were as cold as a stone. He
warmed his hands about ten minutes before he was ready to go in with
the next sitter. I hoped, when the Research Committee was formed,
that we had at last obtained a working body which would utterly ignore
the existence of disbelievers, and go on quietly with its legitimate duties ;
instead of which it has given two months to work having an ulterior
proselytising object, and has not prosecuted any research tending to
evolve even a fragment of philosophy. Proselytising work may be
good. If the end is worth the trouble, let a committee be formed for
that special purpose, but missionary labours are foreign to the purpose
for which the Research Committee was established.
• Mrs. Hallock remarked that at her first sitting with Dr. Slade,
which took place in New York in broad daylight, the writing came
while the slate was on the top of Dr. Hallock’s head, and while the
medium was holding it by one corner. She saw a materialised spirit j
hand doing the writing; it was the hand of a lady.
The Secretary announced that the Council had only placed the
general management of the meetings in the hands of the Research
Committee, but had given it no power to limit the subjects to any par- j
ticular groove.
After a few further remarks from various speakers, the proceedings j
closed.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The steady increase in the number of members of the i
National Association of Spiritualists, from month to month,
ever since it was founded, the efficient way in which it is I
managed, and the firmness it displays in living within its jl
income, show that it deserves the popularity it enjoys not j!
only at home, but abroad. In consequence of the accessions <
of new members, no bazaars, or anything of that kind, have
been necessary during the year now drawing to a close, and | <
the prospects of the Association in the future are of the j
brightest description. During the present year it has lost j
about £50, in consequence of its non-acceptance of Mr. |
Harrison’s offer to print and publish the prize essays at his j
own risk. As pointed out some time ago in these pages, its j)
income might also have been increased by its offering greater j)
privileges to provincial and foreign members. The establish- !|
ment of a travelling library, with books sent from town to j
town once a month, in tin-lined boxes, to the care of local K
agents for the benefit of local subscribers, "would be a tangible k
benefit to the latter, and bring in plenty of new country |j
members at higher subscriptions than the present average, j)
The other suggestion we made was that in the library com- j
plete files should be kept of every periodical connected with )
Spiritualism, published in any part of the globe, so that K
Spiritualists everywhere should know where to look for per- j)
feet historical records. All foreign books on the subject K
should likewise be at once obtained and preserved. The il
consequence, it was argued, would be that the British !j|
National Association would have a claim upon the support m
of foreign Spiritualists, who thereby might be induced to j<j
enrol themselves as ordinary members. The chief Spiritual |)|
journals in Spain, France, and, we believe, Germany warmly m
endorsed this idea, and Mr. Wiese wrote from Wiesbaden in Rj
its support, at the same time enrolling himself as an ordi- j|i
nary foreign member. Had all the points just mentioned been m
attended to, the income of the National Association during ui
the past year would have been much larger than its actual
amount, but the Council had most of its time consumed in
the consideration of other subjects the comparative importance
of which every member can criticise for himself. Apart from
mere business considerations, or any idea of personal advan¬
tage, all Spiritualists should aid in this step to substitute
order for confusion, harmony for dissension, self-government
for anarchy, strength for weakness, and united friendly action
for unregulated individualism. Just in proportion as men
are advanced in civilisation and culture, do they acquire
capacity for forming efficient organisations; the one is a
measure of the altitude of the other.
SPIRITUALISM IN LIVERPOOL.
VAGRANCY AND WITCHCRAFT.
The following paper was read by Mr. Chapman at a meeting held
on Tuesday, last week, at 63, Newland-street, Everton, Liverpool,
Mr. Joseph Shepherd in the chair.
Of the Liverpool Conference of 1873, it was reported in The Spirit¬
ualist of August 15th of the same year, that I made the following
remarks when speaking upon “ National Organisation of Spiritualists ”:
“ Organisation was necessary for the welfare and future progress of
Spiritualism. According to Moses, Chaos first reigned in the Universe,
but order and harmony came out of it, and order was necessary for great
achievements in connection with Spiritualism as well as in connection
with anything else. We should band ourselves together to give a wider
spread to Spiritualism and its philosophy, but not to make them into a
creed or formula. The time had come when our forces should be joined
to form a tower of strength to ward off the attacks of enemies, for the
Church had denounced Spiritualism, the world had scouted it, and a
great part of the scientific world had treated it as imposture and a sham:
we ought, therefore, to organise for self-protection. There were clauses
in old Acts of Parliament which might be used to persecute Spiritualists,
especially one passed in the days of James I., inflicting pains and penal¬
ties upon people who had to do with any wicked spirit. (Laughter.)
Nobody would like to see our mediums dragged for persecution’s sake
before a court of law, with nobody to defend them, and nothing could
protect them so well as a strong organisation. (Hear, hear.) As
Spiritualism stood at present it had been compared to a shapeless mass
floating about without aim or purpose.” (Applause.)
I confess that I am neither a prophet, nor the son of a prophet; but
these apprehensions filled my mind at that time, and my fears gave rise
to the above remarks. The state of things wliich I then feared has
come to pass in the case of some mediums, and others may share the
same fate.
It is said that the law of witchcraft is abolished, but I fail to see it
while the same words are incorporated into other Acts to be used at the
present day.
By the 9th Geo. II. c. 5, s. 3, it is enacted, “ That no prosecution, suit,
or proceeding shall be commenced or carried on against any person or
persons for witchcraft, sorcery, enchantment, or conjuration, or for
charging another with any such offence, in any Court whatever in Great
Britain.”
In the next section of the Act, the offence against real witchcraft
having been done away with, the same thing is enacted under the word
“ Pretence.” The only things abolished are benefit of clergy and death
by burning; for the section 4 says: “ And for the more effectual pre¬
venting and punishing any pretences to such arts or powers as are before
mentioned, whereby ignorant persons are frequently deluded and de¬
frauded.” It is further enacted: “ That if any person shall pretend to
exercise or use any kind of witchcraft, sorcery, enchantment, or con¬
juration, or undertake to tell fortunes, or pretend from his or her skill or
knowledge in any occult or crafty science to discover where or in what
manner any goods or chattels supposed to have been stolen or lost may
be found, every person so offending, being thereof lawfully convicted on
indictment, shall suffer imprisonment one year, without bail or main¬
prise, and once in every quarter of the same year, in some market town,
stand openly on the pillory by the space of one hour, and find sureties,
if the Court think fit, for his or her future behaviour, or be imprisoned
until such sureties be given.”
The Witchcraft Act is incorporated with the Vagrant Act, and it is
under this Act which the magistrate, Mr. Flowers, has condemned Dr.
Slade. The Act says:—
“ By the 5th Geo. IV., c. 83, s. 4, Secondly, Every person pretend¬
ing or professing to tell fortunes, or using any craft, means, or device,
by palmistry or otherwise, to deceive and impose on any of his Majesty’s
subjects . . . shall be deemed a rogue and vagabond, within the true
intent and meaning of this Act; and it shall be lawful for any justice of
the peace to commit such offender, being therefore convicted before him
by the confession of such offender, or by the evidence on oath of one
or more credible witness (or witnesses), to the house of correction, there
to be kept to hard labour for any time not exceeding three calendar
months.”
Mr. Chapman then proceeded to criticise the evidence of Messrs.
Lankester and Donkin with considerable vigour.
The meeting terminated with the passing of the following resolution :
—“ That we know Spiritualism to be a great truth, and we feel confident
the present prosecution of media will ultimate to its advantage.”
The North of England Review has published several well-written
articles on Spiritualism, besides biographical notices of some of the
leading mediums, English and American.
Nov. 24, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. Is. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, Sby William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
■ facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
. most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefiy with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton- 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spint Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
'Anii-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Sims; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals {were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the epinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that' all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth, Best edition, gilt, Ids. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid. Z
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.O.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Orosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, MB., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS; A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5s.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ol Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. -James Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BV ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
   ’ II.
HI.
IV. „ .
I V. „ . .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-reourring Questions from the P
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ;
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Coniugal Love; Truth v. Theology . ,
Morning Lectures . . . .
ople
s. d.
15 0
7 6
7 6
7 C
7 6
7 6
7 0
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
C 0
7 6
7 6
5 0
6 0
2 6
3 0
7 fi
f. d.
24 0
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences, (Pub. at 7s. fid.) 4s..
Oriental Religions (Johnson)
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiuitualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A hook containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A„ Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . ... . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. - Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind'; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . ~~ f.-2>
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , , . . . • 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . .30
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . ' . . . - , 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . J'* ■ . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools . , ., . 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
3 Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR, HENRI
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear., Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrieally through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr B. T.
Hallock. 2s.
Ir
THE S PI RITUAL 1ST,
Nov. 24, 1876.
Published at 7s. 6d. Beduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, ■with experiments and obser-
rations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
‘ EDWIN LEE, M.D., ,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Boyal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin;
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is .recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Eugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about an’mal
magnetism, *which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have dbne still leaves an enormous' deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mindi but.we cannot understand a thinking* a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published "by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Beduced.in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d> Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Another Work on Occult Spiritism,
By the Author of
“ AET M AGIO."
" Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten begs to announce that she has
been privileged to" prepare for the Press another work by the
Author of Art Magic, entitled
■ ■ GHOST-LAND;
Or,
Eebeieohes into the Mysteries of Occult Spiritism. -
; Illustrated in a series of autobiographical papers, with
extracts from the records of
MAGICAL SEANCES, &0„ •&0.
Translated and edited by Emma Hardinge Britten.
This magnificent and thrilling record of spiritual experiences
was prepared for and commenced in the Western Star soma
four years ago. Since the suspension of that periodical—
necessitated by the Boston fires—Mrs. Hardinge Britten has
been repeatedly solicited to publish the admired and fasci¬
nating “ Ghost Land ’’ papers in a connected series. The great
demand for another book from the author of Art Magic, the
earnest desire of the subscribers to that celebrated work to
know more about its author, and the interest which exists at
the present hour in philosophical and progressive views, of
Spiritualism, combine to induce the Editor to put forth the
present highly instructive and wonderful volume, with the
special view of meeting the above requirements.
Price 12s. Orders may be sent to W. H, Harrison, 88, Great
Bussell-street, London, W.C.
.This day* 16mo cloth* Is.; post free, Is. Id.
HANDBOOK FOR ATTENDANTS ON THE
INSANE..
By L. S. FOBBES WINSLOW, M.B. Cantab, D.C.L. Oxon.,
Lecturer on Mental Diseases, Charing-cross Hospital.
Also, this day, by the same Author, price Is.
ON SPIRITUALISTIC MADNESS.
London: Balllifere, Tindall & Cox, King William Street, Strand.
iNow Beady.—Fifty-seventh Tear.
APHAEL’S PROPHETIC ALMANAC &
MESSENGEB for 1877. Post free Seven Stamps; or,
with Ephermis, Thirteen Stamps.
London: Catty and Dobson, 1, Ivy Lane, E.C.
Leigh spiritualists* association
-MEETING BOOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
tp Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Boom, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
LIBERTY HALL, 19, Church.-street, Isling¬
ton. Weekly Seances, &c.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Stance at 8p'm.;ls. Friday, Seance a!
8 p.m.;. non-subscribers, is. Saturday, Development Class at
8 p.m.; subscribers only
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of books, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 books and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of books, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the popu'ation is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the great truths of Spiritualism, Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
PRIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIEITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Beligious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Rooms of the Association, 88, Great Bussell-
street, and of Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria lane, price Is.,
post, ls.l£d.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is. ; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Brancn Office.
HE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOB EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c.. By Allan Kardec. Translated by Anna
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 5s. 6d,
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED BY THE -
. MUSIC AND ART, ASSOCIATION,
39, Great Marlborough Street.1
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. TlNEL as a
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Price 6s.
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
FETE DE JUPITER.' Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTORIUM. For Organ, 4s.
JOAN OF ABO. French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin¬
cipal Music, arranged by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.B.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price 2s. 6d. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5,'6, and 7, price 6s.
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s,
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Chidiock Tichborne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Bose, 4s.
A Series of 12 Part Songs, fid. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION. 2
MISS TBEHERNE (MBS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,'
‘ To the Cuckoo, 6d.
JOHN URICH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian^-
Barcarole, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi-‘
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s. f
F.'CLAY.—Enid’s-Song.. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien’s'
Song, 4s.- Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s. ‘
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 6s. Two Voices: a Song,
<4S< ■ ", *■ ,
ALFRED CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody. ■
Grannie’s Nursery Ehjme Quadrilles, with Pertrait of Mrs."
Weldon, arranged from Grannie's Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Bhyme
Book—Subscribers, 5s.;'Non-Subscribers, 7s. 6d.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborovgh-street, is sold for the
benefit of Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
MRS. BURKE’S
. BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O.
Tub long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualisfs visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a pubjic hotel, h*s, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. - It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. C. Burke.
■ By Royal Letters Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY; .
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY. HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache. '
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved' by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the ■ Nursery as well as for.the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient. - •• . \ r- , • '
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d'. per Botjjje.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr, John Rouse, 80, George:st'reet,‘
Sloane-square, S.W.
DR.- SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept, 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
HIGH was given for and against Dr. Slade
iiTthe Imes newspaper. It contains a reprint-of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester,-F.R.S:.; Dr.'
H. B. Donkin: Colonel Lane Fox, president Of, the Afithfo-'
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake;..Mr. C.'C; Massey,-^
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. - A.- R. Wallace/
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. G. C. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Slade.—2£d., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C,
Just published, a New Song. >
Remembrance (embossed title),- 4s. in a
flat for contralto or baritone, and in O for soprano or'
tenor. Woids by 'W. H. Parker. Sung by Miss Laura
Matthews, Miss Hellier, Mr. R. Odell, and Mr. Sidney Barber.
Also the Snowdrop Mazurka and Dewdrop Redowas (second
edition), each 3s., by the tame composer. To be bad of all.
Music-sellers, and of the Author and Publisher, post free, at
half price. Copyrights reserved. A few second-hand piano¬
fortes for sale, from £5 to £18. N. Vickery, Professor of
Music, 9, Cambridge-terrace, Railton-road, Heme-hill, S.E,:
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES.
MR. T._ P. BAREAS, F.G.S.,
Begs to announce that he proposes to deliver a series of SIX
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES, in the Lecture Room,
Nelson-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne. on the Thursday evenings
of each week, commencing shortly.
Doors open each evening at 7 o’clock? Chair to he taken
at 7.30.. •' 7; y
LECTiptE I,—The Worshipful the Mayor will preside.
Subject- “ The Scientific Principles involved in raising the
Vanguard, and a criticism of the methods proposed.”
LECTURE If.-rThos. Foster, Esq., Sheriff of Newcastle, will
preside. Subject—“Pneumatics; or, the Laws and Pro¬
perties of Air and other Gases, with remarks on the Navi¬
gation of the Air.”
LECTURE III.—Councillor H. W. Newton will preside.
Subject—“The Structure and Fuiioti'ons of the Brain and
Nervous System, comparative and human.”
LECTURE IV.—Councillor J. ,0. Scott will preside. Subject—
The Latest News from the Stars.”
LECTURE V.—Councillor W. Stewart will preside. Subject—
■ “ Heat: its History and Philosophy.”' <
LECTURE VI.—Alderman Gregson will preside. Subject—
“Heat: its Modern Applications.”
These Lectures will occupy about one hour each, and at the
conclusion of each Lecture, relevant questions will be
answered. .
The Lectures will be illustrated by diagrams and models.
Terms of Admission by Ticket, to be had of Mr. Barkas, Art
Gallery, and Mr. Blake,'49, Grainger-street. Front Seats, 2s. 6d.
the*course; Unreserved Seats, Is. 6d.'the course.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
- INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists,
President.
HENRY D. JENOKEN, ESQ., M.R.I.
(B«rrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Sewetary
of the Association for the Reform and Codificaiion of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.'
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas W ilks. ,
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts aflecting Spirituajism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry info Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.46 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of th»
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances of
several .well-known professional mediums on payment 6f reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to ths
Honorary Secretary: and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapeis and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
formation of circles and conduct of seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can. be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, LDushborough-road, North Bixton.
2 The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &e., &c., apply
to—
. H. E. FRANCIS, Hon. Sec.
Mrs. OLIYE Las a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence! .15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henfy’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
j&pntalrst lUtoapp**,
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
ciown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in ‘addition Ten initial letters or
; figures .count, as one word. Displayed Advertisemenis Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a vpry good medium for’ advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
leach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
i others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
. preserved' for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
' n’ewspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue shojild reach the
office not later than by the. first post on the previous Wedi.et day
-morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
■ be addressed to the Editor.
, . No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a Admittance. “ The Spiritualist” will be posted for one year, ijost
’free, to any ajldfess within the United Kingdom on receipt pf the
annual subscription of 10s 10d.
r City Publishing Office, E W. Allen’s, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London,.
; E.C. T
* Printed ,for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
> ‘Holhorn Printing. Works, Fullwpod’s Rents, High Hoi born,
t in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Av«
• Maria-lane, London, E.C.
