Registered as a Newspaper.]
&K© joi.'liV31< o^ f’^YdSoiKOQidS^ ^dis^K^^-
#l^sf rxrtmir^b' foiilj S^iriiwalism m (fittni §nfaiir.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH ; Jpsefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. . BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO : 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. zoio, Seventh-street,
No. 239.—(VOL. X.—No. 12.)
LONDON: FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 1877.
Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
©ontetug.
The Difficulties and Possibilities of Interplanetary Commu¬
nication Considered. By William H. Harrison 133
Psychology versus Materialism. By Edward W. Cox, Ser-
jeant-at-Law        136
The Dream of a German Poet 137
The National Association of Spiritualists:—Investigators’
Seances..1.  ...' ... ..i ...  137
Haunting Spirits. By the Countess Adelma Von Vay
Wurmbrand ... '     ... I ’... 138
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—Apparition
of a Doe at the Moment of Death—Spiritualism in the
Police Force—The Objective Idea in Nature—What"
Determines Molecular Motion?—The Human Voice
Psychologically Considered 138
Private ...     ... ...  139
Speculations Relating to the Influence of Food upon the
Spirit        140
The Human Voice Regarded Psychologically. Part II.
By Charles John Plumptre, Lecturer on Public Speak¬
ing at King's College, London     140
Correspondence:—The Blomberg Ghost Again—Specula¬
tions about Reincarnation—Transformation and Ma¬
terialisation Phenomena—A Spectre Butler—Spirit¬
ualism at Sowerby Bridge—Mr. E. W. Wallis and
East-end Spiritualism     141
Spiritualism in Kensington:—The Credulity of Incredulity
—Direct Spirit Writing—A Remarkable Case of Clair¬
voyance    ..,     144
A Haunted House in Kent     ... ... 144
Paragraphs:—The Liabilities of Bail, 137; Mr. J. J.
Morse’s Appointments, 139; Spiritualists’ Defence
Fund, 143; The Appeal for Mr. Alridge, 143; Dr.
Sexton, 143; Spiritualism in Brighton   ...”144
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the. Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
npHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-L oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
stsinallihe English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F- Parley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Right Hon. the Countess of
CaithnessHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.;! Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J.L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryatj; Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.,Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. JohnE. Purdon,M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Cxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg"); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev.,C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A, LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles ^United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the UnitedIKingdom, 10s. 10d.
To residents in the United States,'4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O,  
Publishing Office:,13, Red Lion-court, Fleet-street,
London, E.O.
THE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional literature, drama,
music, sports, &c. Chas, L. Wellsden, Editor and Proprietor,
1, Castledine-road, Anerley, S.E.
- March 27th, 1877.
VALUABLE SPIRITUALISTIC. WORKS FOR SALE.
H y. NEWTON will SELL by AUCTION,
• at the Assembly Room, Camborne, Cornwall, at
One p.m., on Tuesday, the 27th inst., about 150 volumes of
new and popular WORKS ON SPIRITUALISM, late the
property of Mr. Samuel Hocking, O.E., deceased.
Dated Camborne, March 20th, 1877.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in tho same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may he hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should he addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
SEANCES.
Seances for Inquirers are held every Thursday evening at 8
p.m. Seances for Members and Subscribers only every Tuesday
evening at 8 p.m. Tickets, 2s. 6d. Applications for tickets
must always be made in advance.
EASTER CLOSING.
The Offices at 38, Great Russell-street, will be clpsed for the
Easter Holidays on the 29th of March, and will re-open on
Monday, the flth of April.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
SEANCES.
A new series of Free Circles for Inquirers, tickets for which
can be purchased by Members at a nominal charge, are now
held weekly, on Thursdays, at 38, Great Russell-street, at
8 p.m. precisely.
Private Seances for Members and Subscribers only are held
every Tuesday evening at 8 p.m. Tickets, 2s. 6d. each. Appli¬
cation for tickets must in all cases be made in advance.
 E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c,, apply
to—
 H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. 
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE. —A com¬
plete set of this valuable work for sale, in 17 vols.—
1860—76. Eleven vols. bound half ealf, marble edges; the
remaining six unbound. Price £5 5s. Address—S. B. Field,
13, Ampton-street, Gray's-inn-road, W.O.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCROFT, Manager.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
HENRY D. JENCKEN,‘ ESQ., M.R.L
{Barrister-at-Law, ’Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association, for the Reform and Codification of
tlte Law of Nations.)
Yioe-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
acts affecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by vanous means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special seances with professional media, lectures, discus*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have'the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
formation of circles and conduct ofsetwceV’ and libraiy catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership ••—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seanee, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
OFFICE OF “ LADIES’ DEBATING CLUB,
102, Bath Street, Glasgow.
MRS. M. G. PARKER and other Ladies of
Club are prepared to Lecture on all the social reforms,
particularly the questions of human equality and temperance.
First-class pianists and vocalists. For terms apply to Mrs. M.
G. Parker.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best hooks published in connection with Modern
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
I two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
A NEW REVELATION.
Just Published, price 12s.
ENGLAND AND ISLAM;
Or. the Counsel of Caiphas. By Edward Maitland, Author
of “ The pilgrim and the Shrine,” “ The Keys of the Creeds, &c.
“ The production of this hook was accompanied by pheno¬
mena of such a character as to leave no doubt on the minds of
the writer and others who witnessed them, that it contains a
revelation from the spiritual world which is destined to con¬
stitute it one of tthe world's Bibles. Written under the con¬
trol of a spirit, claiming-to be the same that spoke through the
prophets of the Old and New Testaments, while its immediate
purpose is to afford a solution of the present European com¬
plication, it sets forth the existence and nature of God and
the soul, the perfection of the whole of the divine existence,
the purpose and method of creation, and the object and cha¬
racter of religion. It further points the place of the present
crisis in the;scheme of the world’s development; the spiritual
relationship between England, Islam, and Israel; the duty of
England in the present crisis; and the high destiny which
awaits her on the fulfilment of that duty.”—Extract from the
New Preface.
Tinsley Brothers, Publishers, Catherine-street.
Purchasers of previous copies can obtain the Preface at the
Publishers.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
March 23, 1877,
H
WHITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., I, Hereford-square, West Bromp,ton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Dldsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Kltz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Oregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W. , ,, ,
Jencken, Henry D., M.E.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build*
ingS> E.CJ.
Massey, C.’ C., Barrlster-at-law, 98, Portland-place, W.
Kogers, E. D„ Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.I)., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra*
road. South Hampstead. N.W.
Wason. James, Wason’s-bulldings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-plaoei Hyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-Street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle vue-terrace, Soutnsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, vanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe. N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Podd.'J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H.. 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 8, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledlne-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 84, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston. E.
Reiroers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N ,
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. vV.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Poste Restante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-toad, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin K. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J, H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. I , Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Klslingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Khan de Rassim PachaSa Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld. Pinneberg, Holstein.
Mi Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.8.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britien, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany."
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210; Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A,
J. H. Gledstanes,Esq., 5,Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
SamuelChinnery,Esq.. 2.Rue de Rocroi. Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A,
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 30, Upper Gloucester-place, Dorset-square,
London.N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denblgh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 80, Naples.
Dr, Fuel, 78, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liveimool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,'
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23.
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid, Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Tofres-Solanot.
Sociedad;Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Callc de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1877.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—John Priest, Esq.
Secretary.—T&c. Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Auditors.—Mr. Charlton and Mr. Chatham.
Trustees.—NLx Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
James Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos¬
worthy, Mrs. Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Mr. Casson, Mr.
Davies, Mr. Foden, Mr. Fowler. Mr. Jones, Mr. A. Lament,
Mr. J. Lamont, Mr. Norris, Mr. Richard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology,
s The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877.
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Bronte, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderfol articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 8s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent Interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 8s.
London Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“ Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book ” will he published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Cb. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie"
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-Square, W.O.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are diseontinned, hut Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terraoe, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to he addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
M
Paris.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o'clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
MRS. KANE AT HOME Tuesdays, Thurs¬
days, and Saturdays from three to five o’clock.—34,
Guilford-street, Russell-squaro, London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
Medical mesmerism and galvan¬
ism.—professor ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years
established) attends patients, and may be consulted daily at his
residence from 2 till 5.—10, Berkeley-gardens, Camden-hill,
Kensington.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &c. Address, “ Spiritualist,’’ 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located-for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manages—Mrs. A. C. Burke
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
WHICH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin; Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. O. C. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S,; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. G. C. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Slade.—2id., post free
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
Spiritualism in the bible identi¬
cal WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
18, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
R
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyoho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Soeiiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, Ace., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
WANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the book and newspaper trade; by E. W
Wallis, 15 St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E.
J Km ti % uf % nttb
Volume Tejh/ Kumber Twelve,
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 23rd, 1877.
THE DIFFICULTIES AND POSSIBILITIES OF INTER-
PLANETARY COMMUNICATION CONSIDERED.*
BY WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Until recently an idea has been prevalent, even among
the thinking minority, that the planetary worlds which re¬
volve around our sun are inhabited. How natural it is to
think that in the economy of nature, planets larger by far
than our little earth, and attended by four or eight moons
instead of one, should not roll through space devoid of in¬
tellectual life ! Is it conceivable that Jupiter, eleven times
larger in diameter than the earth, enveloped in shifting
clouds, swathed by trade winds, and favoured with four
moons, should have no intellectual life upon its surface?
And if men live and die upon other planets than our own,
and their spirits now act independently of time and space,
may not these former dwellers in other worlds be numerous
among the intelligences who manifest at spirit circles ? As
a matter of fact, some of the spirits whom we cannot see, and
whose credentials we cannot easily examine, claim to have
lived in other worlds than ours, consequently the question of
the state of organic life upon other planets requires examina¬
tion in connection with Spiritualism. If the statements of a
few of the spirits about the planets be true, a grand problem
as yet untouched by orthodox science is partially solved, and
the only difficulty in the way of obtaining precise informa¬
tion about life on other orbs, is the imperfect power as yet
obtained by spirits to give precise information through the
organism of a medium whose mental nature differs some¬
what from their own and from that of the recipient of
the information. This problem of the possibility of
establishing interplanetary communication has always had
a strange fascination for me, and has been returned
to again and again in The Spiritualist since that journal
was started eight years ago. The earth, surcharged with
life like an over-ripe cheese, has been so thoroughly ex¬
plored, that man instinctively looks to the bright orbs sail¬
ing through the heavens, longing for new fields to conquer,
for a nobler range of exploration to call forth the highest
powers enthroned within the temple of the human spirit.
There are two ways of dealing with advanced problems
such as these. The one is to keep firmly to the hard ground
of physics and of established fact, then to reason from what
we do know to what we do not know. The other is to accept
the contradictory communications coming through mediums
as direct uncoloured revelations from the spirit world; to quit
solid ground paved with the stones of experience, and to sail
airily away in the wake of an intellectual balloon, like a
gossamer spider at the end of its thread, or like the imps
and elves who—before the fairies were banished from merrie
England and everything loving and beautiful was reduced to
mechanics and mathematics—swung in the forest glade upon
the aspen sprays, or danced in the moonlight beneath the
greenwood tree. The path of fancy is the happiest and most
congenial, if not the truest, but as I may be called to order
if too much play is given to the imagination, I may as well
return to the facts of the case after this preliminary amble
round the course.
The more recent discoveries in astronomy oppose the poeti¬
cal view of the position, and are against the till recently pre¬
valent idea that most of the planets of our system are in¬
habited. One of the chief arguments is of this nature:—
A B O
Let the line D, D, represent the age of the earth, and A, B,
the long geological period during which no intellectual life
appeared upon our planet; then the short length B, C, may
* A paper read last Monday night at a meeting of the National Association of Spiritualists.
|: be assumed to represent the comparatively brief time that
I intellectual life has had its place here, as indicated by geologi-
| cal evidence. Assuming now that the other planets in our
| solar system have had a somewhat similar history to our
I own, what right have we to suppose that as we gaze upon
| them to-night, we are viewing them during the brief period
| of their history when they are glorified by intellectual life,
| and not during the long period when no such life is to be
| found ? The probabilities are against the accuracy of any
! such assumption.
In the course of my argument I shall lean a very little
| upon the generally accepted theory of the nebular origin of
| our planetary system, that is to say, that untold ages ago a
| great fire-mist of flaming gas-—like those now visible in the
! heavens by telescopic aid—slowly cooled and condensed by
| radiation into space, leaving behind it rings of partially
| solidified matter, which gradually agglomerated into planets
and moons; thus was Neptune first formed, then Uranus,
I next Saturn, then Jupiter, the Asteroids, Mars, the Earth,
Yenus, and Mercury, whilst the Sun in the centre is all that
remains of the original nebula, and is still in course of cooling
| and condensation. Our earth is only surface cold, for it
I grows hotter and hotter the deeper man can get, and there
| is evidence that the moon is very cold ; it would cool quicker
than the earth because of its smaller size, for the same
] reason that a small red-hot bullet would cool more quickly
than a large red-hot cannon ball.
In the reverse order to that in which I have just enume-
| rated them, I will now deal with the eight large planets which
! revolve around our sun, and will consider what are the pro¬
babilities, judged from a scientific point of view, of the
| presence at this time upon their surfaces of intellectual life
I like that upon our little earth, 7,901 miles in diameter.
First, however, a few words about the central orb of our
| system, the Sun—a brilliant orb, 853,380 miles in diameter,
| rotating upon its axis once in about 27 days. A mere glance
' | at the Sun through the apparatus recently invented to show
II the red flames upon its surface without the aid of a total
11 eclipse, is alone sufficient to carry home the conviction that
! I no life resembling that of man is to be found there. The
[ | Sun above the photosphere is everywhere covered with a sea
11 of flaming gases, among which hydrogen predominates,
11 and through this sea occasionally burst forth red flaming
[ | clouds to a height of thousands of miles above the normal
i i level of the surface; of late years several drawings and
11 paintings have been made of these lurid fantastic masses.
11 Everywhere the surface of the Sun is in a state of violent
i ] commotion, and variable dark spots are seen upon its
11 surface, caused, apparently, by the local down-rush of a
j | comparatively cool absorbing atmosphere. The spectroscope
j shows that iron and other substances common upon the
11 earth exist in the atmosphere of the Sun in a state of gas,
11 and that when the gas rises to such a level in the Sun’s
[| atmosphere as to cool sufficiently, .it falls back upon the
11 seething masses below as white-hot metallic rain. Nothing
! j in the shape of a solid nucleus to the Sun has ever been seen,
'I nothing but variable surface phenomena being presented to
11 the eye; the sun-spots themselves are but small indenta-
!|; tions in the cloudy, billowy surface. The heat of the Sun
11 is so great that the general opinion of astronomers is that
i! the whole mass of that luminary is in a fluid state, and that
’ | in the Sun nothing of a solid nature is to be found. There
[ I seems to be no place in this orb then for the presence of
11 life resembling our own.
|| Mercury, 2,962 miles in diameter, has no moon, and is so
[r close to the sun that the solar rays throw upon its surface
11 ten-and-a-half times more heat than they do upon our
11 earth, and it travels round the sun so quickly that its seasons
! > are about three weeks instead of three months long. The
134
THE SPIRITUALIST
•March 23, 1877,
position of the axis of rotation of Mercury is not known,
but it may possibly be so favourably placed that near the
poles of the planet it is conceivable there may be limited areas
upon which some few creatures like those upon our earth
could live with tolerable comfort, but near the equator the
heat would be unbearable. On the other hand, the axis of
Mercury may be so inclined that it is inconceivable that any
life could be found upon its surface. The planet is so close
to the sun that the latter appears from Mercury to be four-
and-a-half times larger than from the surface of our earth.
Venus, 7,510 miles in diameter, has a year of 224 days,
no moon, and from her surface the sun appears to be one-
third larger than it does to us. There is some evidence that
the axis of Venus is inclined only fifteen degrees to the
plane of the orbit of the planet; if this is the case, most
unpleasant variations of temperature must be experienced in
every part of Venus, rendering it quite unsuited for the
maintenance of life like our own. If the axis, however, is
inclined at such an angle as "to render small portions of
Venus fit for life like our own, the heat must still be unbear¬
able in the equatorial regions. Venus has a more extensive
atmosphere than the earth.
Next we come to Terra, our Earth, 7,901 miles in
diameter, with one moon. At present intellectual life, vary¬
ing greatly in degree, if not in kind, is distributed every¬
where except over its ice-capped poles, and a few burning
tropical deserts. The geologist, lighting his way with the
tiny torches of reason and observation, has explored the
stony caverns on which its history has been pictured by the
finger of God ; he has discovered that intellectual life began
at a comparatively recent date; further back in time,
strange unwieldly monsters walked upon its surface, and
a luxuriant vegetation, the product of heat and moisture,
abounded. He finds that there was a time when certain
reptiles walked on their hind legs like birds, and when
certain birds had long toothed-jaws like reptiles, and further
back still, he recognises a period when the lower forms only
of animal life prevailed, when molluscs and fishes of low
type, appear to have been the sole inhabitants of the silent
seas. Lastly he comes to the igneous period, when the whole
earth was bubbling and seething with primaeval fires, and
after, with the eye of scientific faith, beholding a vision of an
original nebular fire-mist, he comes to a standstill in his
explorations, listening to the dark waves of eternity rolling
over his head.
Here I will digress to give a beautiful description from
Bailey’s Festus, of the building up of the earth. Lucifer
and Festus are described by the poet as having penetrated
to the centre of our orb, when the following utterances are
interchanged:—
Lucifer.—Behold us in the fire-crypts of the world
Through seas and buried mountains, tomblike tracts,
Fit to receive the skeleton of Death
When he is dead—through earthquakes and the bones
Of earthquake-swallowed cities, have we wormed
Down to the ever burning forge of fire;
Whereon in awful and omnipotent ease
Nature, the delegate of God, brings forth
Her everlasting elements; and breathes
Around that fluent heat of life which clothes
Itself in lightnings, wandering through the air,
And pierces to the last and loftiest pore
Of Earth’s snow-mantled mountains. In these vaults
Are hid the archives of the universe;
And here, the ashes of all ages gone,
Each finally inumed. These pillars stand,
Earth’s testimony to. eternity.
Festus.—All that is solid now was fluid once;
Water, or air, or fire, or some one
Permanent, permeating element.
#######
This marble-walled immensity, o’erroofed
With pendent mountains glittering, awes my soul.
God’s hand hath scooped the hollow of this world;
Yea, none hut His could; and I stand in it,
Like a forgotten atom of the light
Some star hath lost upon its lightning flight.
Lucifer.—Here may’st thou lay thy hand on nature’s heart,
And feel its thousand yeared throbbings cease.
High overhead, and deep beneath our feet,
The sea’s broad thunder booms, scarce heard: around
The arches, like uplifted continents
Of starry matter, burning inwardly,
Stand; and, hard by, earth’s gleaming axle sleeps,
All moving, all unmoved.^
! Festus.—Age here on age
Lie heaped like withered leaves. And must it end ?
Lueifer,.—God worketh slowly; and a thousand years
He takes to lift His hand off. Layer on layer
i | He made earth,'fashioned it and hardened it
i 11 Into the great, bright, useful thing it is;
I ;' Its seas, fife-crowded, and soul-hallowed lands,
|(| , He girded with the girdle of the sun,
| I That sets its bosom glowing like Love’s own
j i Breathless embrace, close-clinging as for life;
Veined it with gold, and dusted it with gems,
I ! Lined it with fire, and round its heartfire bowed
11 i Bock-ribs unbreakable; until at last
I [ | Earth took her shining station as a star,
i In Heaven’s dark hall, high up the crowd of worlds.
j Further still from the sun than the earth, is Mars, 4,920
| miles in diameter. Mars has no moon; his surface is two-
j and-a-half times less in area than that of the earth, and in a
| year Mars receives an average of rather less than half the
I heat from the sun that we do; his seasons differ little from
| ours, but are longer, a year on Mars being 687 of our days.
| ] That which is one pound on the surface of the earth would
III weigh 6 ozs. 3 dwts. on Mars. The planet has a ruddy colour
|| confined permanently to particular regions which are believed
j | to be continents, whilst the darker parts are seas ; there are
| | icy caps over the poles. Maps and globes have been made
| | of the surface of Mars, and the continents and seas have
I | been named by astronomers. Portions of the planet are
| | partially obscured by shifting clouds, and these clouds by
11 spectrum analysis have been proved to be due, like our own,
| | to aqueous vapour somewhat condensed. Altogether Mars
| very strongly resembles the earth, but is colder, and seems
I to be more subject all over to frost and snow. It is more
| probable that animal life is to be found on Mars than that
| I the planet is the abode of death. It so strongly resembles
| i our earth that when watching the red orb moving noise-
| | lessly in the summer sky, I have been reminded of the lines
| | of Goethe, in which the angels of heaven are described as
| I observing from a distance our earth circling round the sun:—
| ! Earth’s pomp and beauty circle on
j > Through light and darkness swiftly sped,
11 A glory as of Eden’s ground,
j ( Wheels into darkness deep and dread;
j | The sea is foaming wild and high
j Around the rock’s eternal base,
And rock and sea for ever fly,
Bevolving in the starry race.
Between Mars and Jupiter is an unsymmetrical gap in
| the solar system; although no large planet is to be found in
| it there are about a hundred small ones, varying from less
j than 50 to not more than 228 miles in diameter. They may
| have been originally formed by the disruption of one great
! planet. Of these little ones Flora is nearest to the sun,
| and Maximiliana the most distant. According to the
| nebular hypothesis they must have fallen so rapidly in
| temperature because of their small size, as to be uninhabit-
| | able by intellectual beings resembling those of earth.
| j Jupiter, the giant of the solar system, is 85,390 miles in
j I diameter; he has shifting clouds influenced by trade winds,
I | and is attended by four moons ; his axis being nearly per-
| i pendicular to the plane of his orbit the planet has no
i j seasonal changes. Jupiter being so much farther from the
' sun than the earth, the direct heating effects of the solar
| | rays are less than they are here in the proportion of one to
| | twenty-five, and this is one fact telling against the presence
j I of beings like men on his surface. Jupiter is covered with
| I such great masses of clouds, subject to violent commotions
] and changes, that these phenomena cannot well be accounted
| | for as the result of the action of the solar rays. They are
| | thought to be due to intense heat in the body of the planet,
| | and so far as astronomical evidence goes, Jupiter is most
| | likely still bubbling and seething with primaeval fires. The
| | body of the planet—which has probably never been seen
ijl through the clouds—may possibly be still red hot, conse-
| | quently self-luminous. Although there is strong evidence
| | that the planet is in a very hot state, his four moons may be
| | both cool and inhabited.
ji Saturn is 71,904 miles in diameter. Several most trust-
| | worthy and experienced observers have deposed that it is
hi subject to considerable alterations in shape, and this indi-
I I cates that it is covered with masses of cloud not produced
ill by the action of the solar rays. In short, Saturn appears to
Maech 23. 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 135
be in the same heated state as Jupiter. His year is 29| times,
and his seasons more than seven times longer than ours,
and he receives ninety times less heat from the sun, area for
area, than we do upon the earth. Saturn is so far off that
the light of the sun which reaches it is very feeble, and
much of it is still further cut off by the rings of the planet,
which prevent light from falling upon certain portions of
Saturn for four or five years at a time. The planet would
therefore appear not to be inhabited by races like those
known to man. It has eight moons, which may possibly be
inhabited; the largest of them, Titan, is 3,300 miles in
diameter; Dione is but 500.
Uranus and Neptune revolve around the sun at an enor¬
mous distance beyond even Saturn; a line equal to the
whole diameter of Jupiter’s orbit would barely reach from
Saturn to Uranus. Uranus has a diameter of 33,024 miles,
and Neptune, which revolves at a vast distance outside
Uranus, has a diameter of about 56,620 miles. These planets
are so far away that the sun from Uranus looks 390 times
smaller than it does from the earth, and from Neptune it
appears to be 900 times smaller—in short, just like a star;
consequently, the light and heat received from the sun by
these two planets are feeble in the extreme, and altogether
incompetent to support animal life. There is evidence that
the axis of Uranus is very nearly in the plane in which the
planet travels round the sun; therefore its summer days
and its winter nights are from twenty to forty years in length,
according to the distance of the place from the equator of
the planet. Both Uranus and Neptune may still be self-
luminous and very hot, giving light and life to attendant
moons. Uranus has four moons at least, and as many as
eight are said to have been occasionally observed; the
number of satellites of Neptune is not known. It has one
at least, discovered by Lassell.
Thus it will be seen that the astronomical evidence is
almost overwhelming that in our solar system no more
than portions of the planet Mars and very small areas upon
Venus and Mercury may possibly be fitted, during the most
favourable geological epoch, for the existence of men such
as are found upon earth, and that the moons of some of the
more distant planets may be similarly inhabited. Changes
in the atmospheric condition of planets might make
them to some extent more habitable than has just been esti¬
mated ; for instance, there is only two per cent, of moisture in
the air of our earth, yet that small proportion of vapour of
water prevents us all from being frozen to death every night;
it acts as a blanket, permitting the solar rays to penetrate
freely during the day, but preventing the free radiation of
dark heat from the surface of the earth. By preventing the
diffusion of this dark heat, it becomes warm itself, and, to
a certain extent, keeps the earth warm during the night.
But there are vapours such as that of sulphuric ether, which
act far more powerfully in this way than vapour of water,
and within a limited range the presence in the air of
other vapours than that of water may make a few of the
planets more habitable than stated in the preceding estimate,
but not to such an extent as to materially alter the general
conclusions. The circumstance should not be overlooked
that very small changes of climate and soil have a great
influence upon animal life. The English have never been able
to properly colonise India, the effects of the climate and soil
being such that they are obliged to send their children home
to gain health and strength. If, then, we suppose the other
planets to be somewhat different to ours in chemical consti¬
tution as well as in climatic conditions, those of them which
support the life of organic beings are likely to teem with
creatures differing from any to be found here. If the
nebular hypothesis be admitted, it is reasonable to suppose
that the outermost parts of the original fire-mist contained
a larger proportion of certain chemical substances and a
smaller proportion of others than were to be found near the
centre of the heated gases, the result being that whenever
life appeared upon any particular planet, it would differ from
that upon neighbouring orbs differently physically consti¬
tuted. The general conclusion from all this is that by far
the largest portion of the sum total of the area of the
planets in our system is not habitable by organic beings, and
that although a very small portion of the planetary and
lunar area is to some extent adapted for intellectual life, it
iis possible that just at the present time scarcely any of it is
passing through that stage.
Our moon, which is so close to us that the mountains and
craters in it can be seen clearly with a good telescope, has
little or no atmosphere, no clouds, and abounds in gigantic
crevasses and precipices. It appears to be a cold abode of
death thoroughly unfitted for life like our own.
Does it follow, then, that the probabilities are that no
planets are to be found at all resembling our own, and teem¬
ing with similar intellectual life? By no means. On
gazing at the heavens on a cloudless night, it should be
remembered that more than two or three of the planets of
our system are rarely to be seen, whilst thousands of stars
stud the firmament, flashing like diamonds. All these are
suns, so far away from us that they appear to be but
twinkling points of light; they are so far off that when a
powerful telescope magnifies them a thousand times, they
are but points of light still, presenting no appreciable
disc. The distance of any one of them is so enor¬
mous that to state it in miles would merely be to string
| together a long row of confusing figures; consequently
| the distance of a star when approximately known, is
| usually stated in accordance with the time which light takes
| to travel from it to the earth. Light travels at the rate of
| 186,000 miles in a second of time, and, speeding through
| space at this rate, it requires two or three years for it to
| teach us from the nearest fixed star.* . Some of these suns,
| as revealed by the spectroscope, are composed of different
| substances to our earth, the inference being that the as-
| sumed worlds rolling around them are, on the nebular
j hypothesis, different in chemical composition from our own.
I But among these myriads of stars, surrounded by an untold
| number of planets as yet unseen by man, it is easy to con-
! Ceive not only that a very few of the said planets are in the
| same condition as our earth, but that some of them are in-
| habited by beings like ourselves. Other planets, also, may
| be full of organic life ; but who can dogmatically say that
I the intelligences connected therewith may not be different
| in kind from our own, or whether the said beings may not
| 1)088688 senses and powers which we have not ? May they
I not, in some cases, be higher than ourselves in the scale of
creation, and in others lower ?
The general conclusions I draw from what has already
| been said, are:—
| 1. That the probabilities are that, with the exception of the little
planet Mars, scarcely any part of our planetary system is at present
; adapted to support intelligent beings like men, and that the greater
| portion of our planetary system is in such a state that it cannot support
vegetable or animal life of any kind.
! 2. That most of the small portions of our planetary system, which
| may possibly at some not very remote period, geologically speaking, be
I inhabited by intelligent beings like men, are probably not now passing
through that short period of their geological history.
3. That among worlds revolving Kpund other suns, there is a prob-
| ability that an excessively small minority may be inhabited by beings
| like men.
The question now arises whether communication can be
| established with those assumed intelligences. Two possi-
| bilities here open before us. The one whether intercourse
| can be established by clairvoyance, and the other whether
| information can be brought from these planets by spirits
| who are more independent of the conditions of time and
| space than ourselves.
As regards clairvoyance, Professor Gregory has shown
i how a sensitive could read the mottoes inside nuts which
| had been bought at a shop, before the said nuts were cracked,
j and Serjeant Cox has told how a blindfolded boy would play
! at cards with him for an hour at a time. Other examples of
| like kind are innumerable, and they prove that clairvoyance
| is occasionally trustworthy for short distances from the
| sensitive. Then again cases are numerous of the occasional
I trustworthiness of clairvoyance for long distances. Mr.
! Wright, for instance, last week told a public audience at
! Kensington of a case of a woman in Glasgow accurately
I describing scenes and persons in London, when the particu-
! lars revealed had not previously been in the minds of any of
! the persons present. The greater number of supposed clair-
I voyant revelations are untrustworthy, and probably subjec-
* At night, wa see the stars not as they are now, hut as they were several years ngo, the
light which enters our eyes having taken that time to reach us,—W. H. H.
136
THE SPlBlTtTAHlST.
March 23, 1877.
tive, but it is merely a question of time and patient research j
to discover the sources of error, and to eliminate the same. I
Lastly, certain sensitives have given revelations about the j
condition of the planets which for the most part are utterly |
untrustworthy, because they are altogether at variance with j
each other, and with the latest discoveries in exact astro- j
nomy. Still, this may but be due to the general untrust- !
worthiness of clairvoyance, and it is our duty to eliminate !
the sources of error in such researches. Swedenborg gave |
what he believed to be revelations about other planets. |
Andrew Jackson Davis has done the same; Mrs. Tappan has !
added her contributions to the subject, so also have the |
sensitives of Professor Denton as recorded in his remarkable !
book, The Soul of Things. In Oahagnet’s book are further I
revelations. A remarkable work, entitled Montalluyah j
(Tinsley: 1873), now in the library of the National Asso- j
ciation of Spiritualists, gives psychological revelations about j
a planet supposed to be Mars. I Have reasons for believing j
that the book is not a mere novel, but is founded upon reve- j
lations given in an abnormal way. j
At one time I began to compare some of these various j
accounts, and found, so far as I went, that they did not It
agree with each other at all, but my work was slight and j
imperfect. What I should like is that some friends with j
leisure, and who are qualified for literary research, like Mr. j
Whitear, Mr. Newbould, and Dr. Carter Blake, would bring I
together the scattered alleged revelations about each planet, I
just as the various “ Blomberg Ghost ” stories have been un- j
earthed and placed side by side. Afterwards the questions j
of the trustworthiness and sources of error in the collected |
psychological revelations could be considered. In this paper |'
I have chiefly attempted to clear the ground, from the safe j i
and sure point of view of orthodox science, of any revela- |!
tions which may be founded merely upon subjective visions. |
I would recommend the collectors of the records to confine b
their attention at first to the planet Mars, since in connec- |J
tion with that orb there appears to be more hope of obtain- |]
ing verifiable results. In the first place, that which different jj
seers and sensitives have said about it should be recorded; I
then it will be necessary to consider whether the difficulties ]
of communicating by psychological methods will account j
for discrepancies. Points upon which the narratives agree j
may be brought to light, or it may be that the accounts will 11
difier so strongly as to be hopelessly contradictory. When |
all the records in relation to Mars have been exhausted, j!
revelations given by abnormal means in relation to Jupiter jj
and Venus might be dealt with in a similar manner. [j
The accuracy and trustworthiness of the results of modem ! j
astronomical methods of observation, verified by a consider- j
able number of independent witnesses, should give great j
weight to the statements of those who deal with the ques- j
tion before us from the physical side. How perfect those |
methods are is illustrated by the exactitude with which the j
occurrence of eclipses and occultations is foretold to the j
fraction of a second. Some years ago the Astronomer Koyal j
was kind enough to give me facilities for examining for jj
several days the apparatus in use at Greenwich Observatory, j
and to me the perfection to which methods of observation j
have been brought by the accumulated experience of genera- j
tions was striking. For instance, the great transit in- j
strument resembles a heavy gun-metal cannon, turning j
upon a central axis: of course, when this ponderous tube jj
is inclined somewhat in a horizontal direction, the earth i
tends to pull the two ends of it downwards, consequently, j
theoretically slightly bends the tube. The error due to j
this practically imperceptible flexure is estimated and |
allowed for in all calculations founded upon the obser- I
vations. As another instance of the care taken to secure I
accuracy, I may mention that the speed with which the j
nerves of the observers act while making the observations I
is estimated and allowed for in. the subsequent calcula- j
tions; one man is quicker in receiving impressions upon j
the brain than another, and in transmitting the commands j
of his will to his hands through his nerves ; the amount of j
this personal error is different for each man, but when !
once ascertained is tolerably constant for each observer j
except during times of illness or mental disturbance. The I
perfection to which methods of observation have gradually jj
heen brought brings to mind the words of Mitchell
“ The intellectual power of man, as exhibited in his won¬
derful achievements among the planetary and stellar worlds,
has thus far been our single object. I have neither turned
to the right hand nor to the left. Commencing with the
first mute gaze bestowed upon the heavens, and with the
curiosity awakened in that hour of admiration and wonder,
we have attempted to follow rapidly the career of the human
mind, through the long lapse of six thousand years. What
a change has this period wrought!
“ Go backwards in imagination to the plains of Shinar, and
stand beside the shepherd astronomer as he vainly attempts
to grasp the mysteries of the waxing and waning moon, and
then enter the sacred precincts of yonder temple devoted to
the science of the stars. Look over its magnificent machinery;
examine its space-annihilating instruments, and ask the
sentinel who now keeps his unbroken vigil, the nature of his
investigations.
“ Moon, and planet, and sun and system are left behind.
His researches are now within a sphere to whose confines the
eagle glance of the Chaldean never reached. Periods, and
distances, and masses, and motions, are all familiar to him;
and could the man who gazed and pondered six thousand
years ago stand besides the man who now fills his place
and listen to his teachings, he would listen with awe, in¬
spired by the revelations of an angel of God. But where
does the human mind now stand ? Great as are its achieve¬
ments, profoundly as it has penetrated the mysteries of
creation, what has been done is but an infinitesimal portion
of what remains to be done.”
Of the psychological portions of the problem I have said
little to-night; the time at disposal suffices only for the con¬
sideration of the physics of the question. Possibly time
and space are but conditions of matter, subservient to
spiritual powers, and the day may be at hand when the
planets, whether inhabited or not, can be explored by.
psychological methods. .
PSYCHOLOGY VERSUS MATERIALISMS
BY EDWARD W. COX, SERJEANT-AT-LAW.
The paper contributed to the Psychological Society by Mr.
Croll almost demonstrates as a fact in nature and science
that the universe is not wholly material—probably the
material part being the least part of it. It proves scienti¬
fically that spirit—by which I mean nothing more than non-
molecular being, affirming nothing whatever what that being
is—underlies, surrounds, possibly permeates, all molecular
matter—that the forms of life and being are not determined
by chance nor by the fortuitous combination of atoms, but
are moulded by forces that are not the blind physical forces,
but some power with a plan, which determines organic
structure and perhaps all mundane structure; that matter,
which is the proper study of the chemists, is not, as the
materialists would have it, the all in all, but that there is
behind the world of matter, and probably underlying it a
cosmos of spirit—a universe of soul, whose investigation is
the proper province of psychology. While the materialists
are usefully toiling to learn the laws of those physical forces
that mechanically move the dead unconscious matter which
alone they recognise, we psychologists are not less usefully
employed in exploring the facts and phenomena of living
conscious being, the forces by which it is moved, and that
yet greater force which determines the direction of all the
forces of nature, and builds up that world of organic and
inorganic matter which the materialists are analysing. We
thank them for this good work. We cordially recognise
the great service physical science is doing. We complain
only that physicists will not be content with labouring in
their own province, leaving psychology to psychologists, but,
without seeing or knowing, they venture to pass judgment
upon another branch of science of which they confess them¬
selves wholly ignorant. Psychologists justly complain, not
that the materialists refuse to recognise any other than
the material molecular form of being—for this they have a
right to do—but that they refuse to hear any evidence or
any argument that goes to prove its, existence—that they
insist upon pronouncing a verdict upon that which they have
never seen, nor tried, nor studied, although they would be
* file conclusion of a paper read at the last meeting of the Psychological Society,
March 23, 1877.
THE SPIEITUALIST
137
the first to rebuke the presumption of any psychologist
who, being ignorant of electricity or astronomy, should
dare to deny the phenomena they who have seen assert;
and, not content with that, to even proclaim those who
have witnessed them to be fools and rogues. If their
conviction be that man is a mere machine, soul a myth,
future life a fable, they are welcome to their degrading and
despairing creed. Mischievous as it is to society, by its
annihilation of all hope for mankind here and hereafter—
by the utter degradation of humanity it involves—there is
yet no desire on the part of those who hold a nobler faith,
who recognise a God—a soul—an immortality—to revive
against the materialists the slumbering statutes that make
their doctrines criminal. Psychology has a firmer faith in
its own principles than to resort for self-protection to pro¬
secutions and prisons. It leaves to the priests of science in
this nineteenth century to take up the weapons of prosecu¬
tion which the priests of theology have long since cast
away. It is content to protest against the denunciations of
those who, standing upon the same platforrp. of science, find
in psychology proofs of a higher destiny, dawnings of a
brighter day, based not upon faith or dogmatism but upon
positive facts in nature, such as those so brilliantly expounded
by a brother scientist in this paper. Upon this standpoint
we challenge the materialists to combat, not with police-
courts, and penalties, and prisons, and persecution, and
abuse—not by calling their opponents impostors, or dupes,
rogues, and vagabonds—but by experimental appeal to
nature and science—by examination, and trial, and test.
Mr. Croll asks them in this paper if their own theory
of molecular motion, as the constructive force of the uni¬
verse, does not in itself proclaim the existence of some
other intelligent directing force behind it that determines
with a plan the motions they are themselves exploring.
Then come the questions:—
What is this intelligent determining power ? God.
What is this underlying formative force that moves and
moulds matter ? Soul—spirit.
THE DREAM OF A GERMAN POET.
u God called up from dreams a man into the vestibule of
Heaven, saying, 4 Come thou hither, and see the glory of
my house.’ And to the servants that stood around his
throne he said, ‘ Take him and undress him from his robes
of flesh: cleanse his vision, and put a new breath into his
nostrils ; only touch not with any change his human heart—
the heart that weeps and trembles.’ It was done: and,
with a mighty angel for his guide, the man stood ready for
his infinite voyage ; and from the terraces of Heaven, with¬
out sound or farewell, at once they wheeled away into end¬
less space. Sometimes, with the solemn flight of angel
wing, they fled through Zaharas of darkness, through wilder¬
nesses of death, that divided the worlds of life ; sometimes
they swept over frontiers that were quickening under pro¬
phetic motions from God. Then from a distance that is
counted only in Heaven, light dawned for a time through a
sleepy film; by unutterable pace the light swept to them;
they, by unutterable pace, to the light. In a moment the
rushing of planets was upon them: in a moment, the
blazing of suns was around them.
“ Then came eternities of twilight, that revealed, but were
not revealed. On the right hand and on the left, towered
mighty constellations, that, by self-repetitions and answers
from afar, that, by counter positions, built up triumphal
gates, whose architraves, whose archways rested, rose, at
altitude by spans that seemed ghostly from infinitude. With¬
out measure were the architraves, past number were the
archways, beyond memory the gates. Within were stairs
that scaled the eternities below; above was below, below
was above, to the man stripped of gravitating body: depth
was swallowed up in height insurmountable—height was swal¬
lowed up in depth unfathomable. Suddenly, as thus they
rode from infinite to infinite—suddenly, as thus they tilted
over abysmal worlds, a mighty cry arose, that systems more
mysterious, that worlds more billowy, other heights and other
depths, were coming, were nearing, were at hand.
“ Then the man sighed, and stopped, shuddered and wept.
His overladened heart uttered itself in teirs; and he said,
c Angel, I will go no farther; for the spirit of man acheth
with this infinity. Insufferable is the glory of God. Let
me lie down in the grave and hide me from the persecution
of the infinite; for end, I see, there is none.’ And
from all the listening stars that shone around issued a choral
voice, I The man speaks truly : end there is none, that ever
yet we heard of! ’ ‘ End is there none ? t the angel solemnly
demanded : 4 Is there indeed no end ? and is this the sorrow
that kills you?’ But no voice answered, that he might
answer himself. Then the angel threw up his glorious hands
to the Heaven of Heavens, saying, 4 End is there none to
the universe of God. Lo! also there is no beginning.’ ”
I THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
I INVESTIGATORS' SEANCES,
II On Thursday, the 15th March, there was the usual seance
| for investigators at the rooms of the British National Associa-
)! tion of Spiritualists, Mr. Eglinton medium. The amiable
] victim’s arms were placed behind his back, and his sleeves
| well and strongly stitched together by a lady, a loop being
i made for identification of the sewing and to show if the
5 thread were slipped or stretched. The medium’s coat was
H also stitched across his chest, and a bib of ingenious make,
but rude appearance—the Research Committee’s own—was
I Jiied over all, and to the chair in which Mr. Eglinton sat.
| Joey produced his wonted manifestations, with the medium’s
| knees in full view in front of the cabinet curtains in a good
(I light.
II When the hands came into view a lady was asked by Joey
| to enter the cabinet immediately on their appearance and
II assure herself that the medium was still securely fastened.
}| She did so, but lost a few seconds by mistaking the entrance.
| She ascertained that the fastenings—her own—were intact,
f| and came out. Immediately upon the appearance of the
I I hands once more, a second after she came out, she entered
I | the cabinet again, this time with much greater promptitude.
||| The medium was found as before lethargic and quiescent,
I | with bound arms, but showing signs of exhaustion; and
([ soon Joey’s querulous voice was heard, explaining that the
l|| second visit to the cabinet had been unexpected. The
I I greater number of the circle soon afterwards came forward
! 11 one by one to assure themselves by touch of the reality of
j . these hands. A piece of tape was asked for and passed
I I through the slit of the curtains where it was snatched away,
I | as also a ring. At the conclusion of the seance the ring was
1)1 found tightly fixed on the medium’s finger, and the tape—a
jj long piece—held the medium to his chair, being passed in
|(| and out of his limbs and several times knotted. The
I )| medium’s voice was heard towards the close protesting in a
| \\ sleepy manner against the use made of him by Joey, whose
m piping tones were simultaneously . heard in argument with
III him. Some time in preparation would be saved at a future
I (I meeting, if a pair of handcuffs could be provided, stamped
i)! with any recognised public mark, and having a glove
sj attached. K. Cook.
| ji A correspondent writes“ The streets of Rome are placarded with
I jj notices of Miss Lizzie Anderson’s seances. She is represented tied in a
ij| chair, and a spirit form is seen rising at her side, a little towards the
• front. Her object is to expose Spiritualism. Thus grow the wheat and
j jj the tares together. God works and the devil works. By ‘ devil ’ I mean
jb ‘ evil spirit.’ ”
i) j The Liabilities of Bail.—In the course of the chapter on “ Bail,”
j in Burns’s Justice of the Peace, 1869, it is said that the difference
jjj between bail and mainprize is, that the mainpernors are only surety,
j (j but bail is a custody, and therefore the bail may retake the prisoner if
j si they doubt he will fly, and detain him and bring him before a justice,
j ji and the justice ought to commit the prisoner in discharge of the bail,
If! or put him to find new sureties. A court will not between conviction
jjj and judgment bail the offender without the consent of the prosecutor,
ijl When a convicted person has been temporarily released on obtaining
j) a writ of error to reverse the judgment, if the parties do not proceed to
jj the trial of the issues, unless cause for such withdrawal be shown to
j ji the satisfaction of the court, the judge may order the recognisances to
j) j be estreated into the Exchequer. The law will imply a contract by the
j si defendant to indemnify his bail for the non-payment of the costs of a
jji prosecution for misdemeanour, for which a verdict was found against
jh him; but it would seem that the law would raise no such implied
j ji contract on the non-appearance of the defendant to take his trial. The
I j i bail are not entitled to have their recognisances discharged without sub-
i (j mitting to the terms of paying the costs imposed.
138
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 23, 1877.
HAUNTING SPIRITS.
BY THE COUNTESS ADELMA VON VAY WURMBRAND.
The paper read at the last Conference of Spiritualists on
“Haunting Spirits,” interested me very much. Having
often had similar manifestations an account of them will
perhaps interest your readers. The following took place at
Ankenstein, the castle of my cousin Count Gundacker Wurm-
brand. Ankenstein is some hundred years old, and stands
on a high rock overhanging the river Drau. “ Jane ” is the
name of a spirit who cannot leave the place where she lived,
loved, suffered, and died a violent death. Whilst staying
there a sad, dreary feeling oppressed me; I grew quite
melancholy and something of the spirit’s state of mind
seemed to possess me. About a week ago, I was staying at
Ankenstein. One night I went into a trance by looking at a
crystal which I held in my hand. I saw a little, stout,
yellow-looking man, dressed in armour, with a big swOrd
hanging at his side; he said he had been living in that castle
for about 400 years hovering about some treasure and armour
which are buried in the earth. This curious gentleman
could not speak German; they say I spoke a sort of Sclavish
and translated it into German, while in the trance. I do
not remember it myself, but am giving the account as I re¬
ceived it from others.
Our ancient ancestral castle, at Steierberg, now belonging
to my brother the Earl Wurmbrand, used to be much haunted.
Doors were opened, and curious knockings were heard; the
manifestations were of a most powerful description. Before
I became a Spiritualist, I spent some time there with my
husband; we could not sleep at night,.the noises were so
dreadful; trampling of horses’ hoofs, persons walking about,
and rattling of window panes. I was nearly frightened out
of my senses. Being at that time a strict Roman Catholic,
I believed these poor souls to be in torment. I ordered
Holy Mass to be read in the chapel, and I myself took the
sacrament for the poor restless soul’s benefit. After this
we had some nights in peace until the noises began again.
Once more I ordered Mass to be said, and again took the
sacrament and begged the good simple Cure to pray for the
poor souls. This praying seemed to help them,\ and we
spent the last week in quietness. A year after this, ! began
to develope as a medium, and immediately made inquiries
about the disturbances at Steierberg. They proved to be
caused by the spirit of an unhappy ancestor, who died three
hundred years ago; his name and other particulars were given
quite correctly. He became free through our prayers and is
now a happy spirit.
At Golop, in Hungary, the home of my husband’s
parents, a big Tartar spirit haunted the house. My cousin,
Ethel Yay, who was a strong physical medium, found out
all about him, and I, without knowing his former history,
received the same account. My maid and my sister’s maid
both saw and heard this spirit, and saw spirit lights in
the room where he seems to have dwelt. My nephew,
Elemir Yay, heard loud laughter and wonderful noises in
the same place. The spirit once gave the name of “ Schuf-.
zengi,” and said he came over from Asia with a Yay, who
seems to have been a chief amongst the Huns. He declares
he shall haunt the house at Golop until the last Yay has
lived therein. We have4a portrait of this singular person in
a spirit drawing. Once a spirit told me that this Tartar
brought with him a peculiar smell, and it is true that there.
is always a strange smell in that house.
I must also relate a curious incident which happened on
the 26th of Eebruary to our coachman, Miska, who is a
young Hungarian, whom we educated from a boy, and whom
we have never found out in any deceit. He was lying in
bed on the night of the 26th, when he saw a big black man
approaching him. The apparition took him by the feet and
shook him violently, till the poor boy, much frightened,
shouted opt,-“I know who you are; get off!” But the
apparition walked quietly about, and at last disappeared.
Boor Miska has been very anxious about his mother ever
since, for fear she should have died in Hungary.
Though our villa here is not more than a hundred years
old, it is haunted by spirits. Once I saw a little man who
told me to dig in the earth under a room down stairs ; we
did so, and found a man’s collar-bone. The other night our
old footman, while clearing the dinner table, heard a deep
sigh twice; he was so frightened that he ran out of the
room. Some , spirit afterwards described to me our Haus
Geister, which seem to be like the Penates of the Greeks*
who remain for some time after death in their former dwell¬
ings. At Pesth, I always felt the presence of some person
in my room, and noticed a cadaverous odour. On making
inquiries, I found that Count N— had died a fortnight before
in that very room*
: Gonobitz, Hungary* March 15th, 1877.
I I THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
| On Thursday night, last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting of
\ j the Psychological Society, held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square,
i London, Mr. Serjeant Cox presided.
U ■ APPARITION OP A DOG AT THE MOMENT OP DEATH.
Mr. F. K. Munton, honorary secretary, said that the society had
(j received from a gentleman in whom it could trust, the following story
II about the apparition of a dog; as the gentleman did not wish his name
) j to be published, he would not mention it, but the author was known to
(i the Council. The correspondent said that a gentleman of his acquaint-’
I ance had a favourite retriever or Newfoundland dog who accompanied
! him in his walks. On one occasion, before leaving home, he chained
(i up the dog because he thought that it might do damage to the flower-
)\ garden of the lady he was about to visit. He had not been long in the
i drawing-room with the said • lady when she exclaimed, “ Oh, there is
(j your dog treading down my flowers.” He replied that the dog was
|! chained up, but he went to the window, and saw what he believed to be
| }\ his dog in the garden. He left the room and went out of the door, but
(I no dog was then to be seen in the flower-garden, nor did the flower-
[j beds show any signs of a dog having been treading them. When he
t i returned home he found the poor dog dead, having strangled himself in
U his efforts to get loose. Neither the lady nor the owner of the dog were
I > j thinking of it at the time it appeared. There was no question as to the
II [ truthfulness and honesty of the narrator of this anecdote.
i (j The Rev. Stainton-Moses said that incidents of a similar kind had
|) | been recorded before; he thought that there was one in Spicer’s Sights
(| and Sounds, and another in Mrs. Crowe’s Night side of Nature.
(| Mr. Serjeant Cox: I know of a similar case. One day, four or five
) | years ago, I had been out shooting, and accidentally shot my dog. I
(| felt it very much. The dog died. That night an investigating seance
(| was held in connection with the Dialectical Society, and in the course
) I of the sitting the faint whining of a dog was heard distinctly by all of
11 us. Whether there was any connection between that and the shooting
{| of the dog I do not know. The siance was held at the house of Dr.
) I Edmonds.
(j , SPIRITUALISM IN THE POLICE FORCE.
>j Mr. Munton next read a letter which he said came from a stranger to
(j the society, consequently, the Council was unable to vouch for the
| ] accuracy of the contents, but he would read it for what it was worth.
The writer set forth that he was an inspector of a division of the
j | Metropolitan police, and had studied the spiritual papers for five years;
(l he had also been to many seances. He had held seances at home,
among members of the force and private friends. On November 13th
(| last, a police sergeant called in for a copy of The Spiritualist news-
)'j paper. He joined the seance, and when they sat round the table it
)j began tilting. The writer then saw a spirit, clairvoyantly, and his
(j friend said that it was his brother. The spirit next gave his name,
)j where he died, on what day of the month, the year, his occupation, the
) | man he worked for, and the colour of his horse. This might be psychic
(| force, or something he could not understand. He could give the names
i of many officers who could furnish further facts, if they would be of
)j service to the society. If any members of the Psychological Society
(| would like to attend one of the seances, he should be glad to give them
) | facilities for examination at his own house. They did not get much in
} \ the way of physical manifestations, but facts relating to the visitors
U were often revealed. He always preferred not to know the names of
>| visitors, who sometimes obtained wonderful revelations.
)\ THE OBJECTIVE IDEA IN NATURE.—WHAT DETERMINES MOLECULAR MOTION ?
(i Mr. Serjeant Cox then read a paper, entitled “ Psychology proved by
)! Molecular Motion.” It was an abstract of a memoir written by one of
) j the honorary members of the society—Mr. James Croll, of Edinburgh—
\ | and contributed by him to the Philosophical Magazine in the year 1872.
) j As Dr. Croll was labouring under an infirmity of sight, he did not write
(| a special paper on the subject for the Psychological Society as otherwise
\ \ he would have preferred to do. The argument of the paper was that as
i'| molecules of matter are built up of atoms which have never been seen,
I ahd these atoms are endowed with motion, some power which cannot be
explained by physics, determines the flow of molecules and atoms to
their proper places in the bodies of plants and animals. Mr. Croll
further argued that there was an objective idea in nature, to which these
material particles were manifestly subservient in their motions. Blind
I force, he'contended, would not cause atoms, subject merely to me-
i chanical vibrations, to arrange themselves in the positions in which they
are found in organic forms. Mr.' Croll, in his paper in the Philosophical
Magazine, saidWhatever may be one’s opinion regarding the
doctrine of final causes and the evidence of design in nature, all must
I admit the existence of the objective idea in nature. We see everywhere,
hot only exquisite order and arrangement in the structure of plants and
animals, but a unity of plan pervading the whole: We see, in ,endless
complexity, beauty, and simplicity, the most perfect adaptation of means
1 tp ends. The advocates of the physical theory are at least bound to
139
Maech 23, 1377. THE SPIRITUALIST.
show how it is probable that this exquisite arrangement and unity of
plan could have been produced by means of chemical and physical
agencies. Let us briefly consider what really has to be explained and
accounted for. Take, say, the leaf of a tree. The leaf is not moulded
by some external agency into its particular shape, but is built up mole¬
cule by molecule. The form and structure of the leaf are the result of
the arrangement and disposition of the particles of which it is composed.
The thing to be accounted for is not what moves the molecules or par¬
ticles in its formation, but what guides, directs, or determines the motion
of these particles. The leaf could not be formed did not each particle
move in the right direction and stop at the proper time and at the proper
place. Each molecule occupies its own special position in the leaf;
consequently no two molecules in moving to their positions can take the
same path. What, then, determines the particular path for each
molecule ? or rather, what determines the motion of each molecule along
its particular path ? The mere motion of the molecules is produced
by force; but what directs or determines this force to move each
particle along its special path ? But the mystery is deeper still. Not
only are the paths of the molecules different, but they must all be ad¬
justed in relation to one another; for it is to the proper adjustment of
the paths that the form of the leaf is due. In other words, the motion
of each molecule must be determined according to the objective idea of
the leaf. But the whole tree is built up of molecules, as well as the
leaf. The molecules which form the branch must be differently deter¬
mined from the molecules forming the leaves; and each molecule of the
branch must take a path different from all the other molecules of the
branch; but the motions of all the molecules must be determined accord¬
ing to the objective idea of the branch. What holds true of one branch
holds true of all the other branches; and what holds true of the branches
holds equally true ofthe trunk, and of theroots, and of the wholetree. Each
particle must be determined not only in relation to the objective idea of
the particular leaf or the particular branch to which it belongs, but in
relation to the objective idea of the tree. In the formation of the tree
each molecule must move along its special path, but the paths must be
so adjusted to one another that a tree shall be the result. But this is
not all: the molecules must move and adjust themselves in relation to
the idea of a tree of a special kind. The molecules forming, say, an oak
tree, must move in relation to one another in a different way from those
forming a beech tree or a pine. But however diversified may be the
motions of the molecules in the different species of trees, yet, notwith¬
standing, all must move in relation to the general idea of a tree. And
what holds true of trees holds equally true of every form of plant-life on
the globe. And what holds true of the vegetable kingdom holds equally
true of the animal kingdom. Each plant and each animal has not only
its own particular form, but it has the form of the species to which it
belongs—and not only this, but the form of the genus to which the
species belongs—and not only the form of the genus, but the form of the
family, order, class, and kingdom to which the genus belongs. But there
is not merely a unity of plan to be accounted for, but also a unity of
purpose. Things in nature are not only related to one another in form,
but they stand related as means to ends. And this relationship is as all -
pervading as that of form. There is not an object in nature that does
not stand in the relationship of a means to something as an end. And
there exists a unity in the ends as well as in the forms. All molecular
motions must consequently have this double relationship of plan and
purpose. How, then, is all this order and unity both of plan and purpose
in molecular motions to be accounted for ?i,
Mr. Stainton-Moses remarked that one of the best weapons against
materialism came from the camp of the physicists in the shape of the
paper which had just been read. He moved the adjournment of the
discussion till the next meeting on the 19th April.
Mr. C. C. Massey seconded the adjournment, remarking that the
paper well deserved elaborate consideration.
THE HUMAN VOICE PSYCHOLOGICALLY CONSIDERED.
The discussion of Professor Plumptre’s paper on the “ Human Voice
Psychologically Considered ” then began.
Mr. F. K. Munton remarked that many of the quotations in his paper
were so beautifully rendered, and had so carried away the listeners,
that he, for one, had almost forgotten the chain of argument. He
should like to ask Professor Plumptre how it was that certain good
readers, dealing with an interesting subject, nevertheless sent their
hearers to sleep ? When other persons were reading it was sometimes
impossible to go to sleep if the listeners tried. Some readers and actors,
in giving pathetic pieces, were as much affected as the audience, and to
such an extent that tears would sometimes run from their own eyes.
He should like to have that explained. Singers, and particularly those
with tenor voices, were sometimes visibly affected in singing love songs.
When anybody wrote an important letter, it was a good thing to read
it aloud to one’s self before posting it; it then made a different im¬
pression upon the mind of the writer, and he learnt something of the
possible effect it would produce upon the mind of the person who was to
receive it. He had had much experience in “ breach of promise ” cases,
and if those who wrote some of the letters had read them aloud before
they posted them, they would altogether have reconsidered what they
were about. The proper thing for the person who received a letter to
do was to read from the point of view of the writer; if this were not
done its meaning might be altogether changed. In law cases sometimes
letters were not produced, becausb the way in which they might be read
by the opposing counsel would altogether alter the meaning of the
writer.
Professor Plumptre said that however beautiful the tone of voice, if it
produced a somnolent effect, the probability was that the person in his
reading had scarcely varied his key from beginning to end. Moreover,
he * would not merely begin upon one key, but would scarcely allow the
inflections of the voice to be observable. In short, he used too limited
a range of notes. He intended to give fuller explanations on these
|| points in subsequent papers. Some actors were unable to influence an
! ! audience because of their misdirected energy. In the display of
| authority, for instance, to rely upon volume of voice was a complete
| mistake; when a man really felt the, passion he did not necessarily
! ! burst into a roar. In the last century Dr. Gilbert Austin had written an
I j analysis of all the passions and emotions of human nature; the book
! i was largely illustrated by engravings, and the author showed that it
j ! was almost impossible, however calm a man might be, to bring into play
j j the muscles of expression without receiving the reflex impression of the
\{\ emotion which had been simulated. The mind of ,a man might be
i (i trained in this way. If in a mixed company a man put on a discon-
j (| tented look he would continue to find himself in that state, whereas if he
i | greeted a friend with a pleasant smile when he did not feel amiable, he
j (i would gradually become so.
j The Rev. W. Stainton-Moses said that it was easier to simulate anger
)j than pleasure. Last year he was one of the judges at University
}| College, and he had one boy who he made sure would get the prize for
j | reading, but that boy on the day of trial had so intensified his feelings
> that he roared in stentorian tones and frightened them. They could
|(| not award the prize to him, otherwise he would have obtained it.
j \ | It was a great point that emphasis in speech should be proportioned to
> | the importance of the subject, and that the statement that “ two and two
II make four” should not be uttered as if it were of the most tremendous
!(j import. A few days ago he had heard a story about Mrs. Siddons
j > I entering a draper’s shop, and giving such a stem and tragical look at the
j (I assistant that he quailed before she opened her mouth; then in a voice of
Hi thunder she said, “Will it wash?” The poor fellow was so frightened
I) | that he sank into his boots. The true psychology of elocution did not
j (| consist so much in compliance with elaborate rules as in being entirely
| (i natural and throwing the whole heart into that which was being uttered,
/j The honorary secretary announced that the next meeting of the
| | society would be held on the 19th of April, it having been postponed
j ! because of the Easter holidays,
| I PRIVATE SEANCES.
| | Last Saturday night a private seance was held at the West-end of
j j London, at which Mr. W. Eglinton was the medium. The sitting took
a I place in the dark; one of his hands was held by Mrs. Ramsay, of 46,
! j Bryanstone-square, and the other by a total disbeliever in the pheno-
|) j mena. The other members of the circle sat also round the table, all
j j hands being joined. Nobody else was in the room, and the door was
I | locked. Under these conditions three chairs, previously situated near
1) | the medium, were put on the top of the table one after the other, so also
| (| was a fire-screen which had been previously standing about four feet
|) j behind him; finally, Mr. Eglinton was floated to the top of the table,
| i and when a light was struck he was seen seated upon one of the chairs
j (! thereon, with the two sitters who had been holding him still clasping his
i) j hands.
M Last Sunday afternoon a private seance took place at the house
Hi of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square,
| j i London, W. The • observers present were : — Mrs. Gregory, Sir
i Patrick Colquhoun, Lady Colquhoun, Mrs. Wiseman, Lord Borth-
jji wick, Mrs. Hill, Mr. W. H. Coffin, Lady Jenkinson, and Mr. W.
j jj H. Harrison. Mr. Eglinton’s shirt sleeves were sewed together
I (| behind his back by a disbeliever, and his hands were tied
j j j together with tape; he was then placed in a bag, which was sewed close
! i to his neck. Under these conditions he sat for spirit hands, at the
Hi opening of the curtains of the dark room behind him, which room served
i j i as a cabinet. He was in full view, all but his head. Soon the com-
j j municating intelligence said that the threads holding his sleeves
j j together had broken, and that the company might sew the sleeves together
! ! again if they pleased. In order not to lose time, it was resolved not to
j do so. Hands and arms appeared; they moved furniture about, rang
| (I bells, and so on. At the close of the sitting it was found that the tape
Hi round the wrists had not been tied tightly enough, and that the
}jj loops would slip over his hands; also, that although the bag had been
j(| sewed close to his neck, there was a large orifice consisting of the
| | remainder of the open mouth of the bag. Thus the results were not
j I obtained under any test conditions, but there is no reason for supposing
H| that they differed in any other way from those commonly obtained in
j>j his presence under severe crucial tests.
j(j The Belgian National Association of Spiritualists is about to publish
j j J in Brussels a monthly organ, entitled the Moniteur de la Federation
|) | Beige Spirite et Magnetique.
<| At the last soiree of the National Association of Spiritualists Mrs. T.
Iji H. Edmands played the “ Birthday Waltzes,” which are her own.com-
lj; position, and were much admired. Mrs. Edmands has kindly placed
[jj some copies of the waltzes on sale at Great Russell-street for the benefit
I of the Association’s funds.
Last Tuesday night Dr. and Mrs. Stanhope Templeman Speer gave a
j dinner party and reception to several Spiritualistic friends, among
whom were Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, the Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, Mr.
!< C. C. Massey, Mrs. Wiseman, Mr. Algernon Joy, Miss Kislingbury, Dr.
J Wyld, Mrs. Wyld, Mr. Percival, and Mr. W. H. Harrison. The
j j j company were indebted for some music of a very superior character to
IMr, Speer, jun.
Mr. J. J. Morse’s Appointments.—Manchester, Sunday, March 25th,
Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-street, All Saints; afternoon at 3 ; subject,
“ Moral Reform: In what does it Consist, and How is it to be Accom¬
plished?” Evening at 6.30; subject, “The Spirit-World, its Nature
and Inhabitants.” Newcastle-on-Tyne, Sunday and Monday, April 1
and 2. Keighley, Sunday, April 8th. Liverpool, Sunday, April 15th.
Birmingham, Sunday and Monday, April 22nd and 23rd. London,
j Sunday, April 29 th,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Maecs 23, 1877.
146
SPECULATIONS RELATING TO THE INFLUENCE OF FOOD
UPON THE SPIRIT.
Mr. Edward T. Bennett published the following statements in the
Sanitary Review of March 6th, 1876:—
The processes of organic life are a means, possibly the means, by
which matter is converted from the “ material ” into the “ spiritual ”
form. We are taught that the vital processes in the human body, not
only serve the purpose of supporting animal life, but that from the finest
or most refined portions of the food taken, or the air breathed, that
body which shall survive the physical body,—that is, the spiritual body,
—is being elaborated and built up. We are taught that during earthly
life this spiritual body is growing, and that it may be approximately
described as a “silver lining” permeating every part of the mortal
body. When death comes the physical body falls away, and the
spiritual body remains. As in earthly life, a man’s capacity for useful¬
ness and work, his enjoyment, and even the real intellectual and moral
progress he is able to make, depend to a great extent upon the sound¬
ness and refined susceptibility of his physical organisation, so it is in the
future life with regard to the spiritual body.
We are also taught that all those conditions and habits which are
unfavourable to the health, purity and refinement of the physical body,
have a still more prejudicial effect upon the growth and development of
the spiritual body. If a man lives a coarse, sensual life, if he is con¬
stantly breathing an atmosphere laden with poisonous impurities, or
with the fumes of alcohol and tobacco, if he indulges an appetite for
gross kinds of food, he is not only injuring his physical frame, but he is
supplying that kind of nourishment for his spiritual body which will
prevent its highest development. In the same way that a man, by
choosing lower enjoyments here, may deprive himself of the capacity for
appreciating high and noble thoughts, so by the course of life which he
pursues, can he limit his enjoyments hereafter, and retard his progress
in the life to come.
A wider field of view thus opens to the mind’s eye of the social and
sanitary reformer, a view which increases the importance of his work,
and should urge him on with redoubled energy to labour for the benefit
of his fellow-men, seeing how far the consequences of present actions
may reach.
It may be said, and of course it will be said, that this is all very fine,
and that we have no possible means of knowing whether what we have
been saying is simply “ vain imaginings ” or whether it contains truth.
Our answer to this is, that the “ intelligences ” from which teaching of
this kind comes, begin by convincing us that they possess “super¬
natural ” powers, and by giving us proofs of their knowledge of things
relating to this world, which we, not knowing, are able to verify. They
assert that they are experiencing the truth of that which they teach us.
We have thus a basis of fact and logic to rest upon. Finding assertions
reliable where it is possible to verify them, we inevitably attach import¬
ance to that which is new to us, and which we cannot otherwise prove;
making, at the same time, allowance for the difficulty, inherent in the
nature of the case, of describing in ordinary words ideas and things
which they were not intended to express and define.
THE HUMAN VOICE REGARDED PSYCHOLOGICALLY.*
Part II.
Dt CHARLES JOHN PLUMPTRE, LECTURER ON PUBLIC SPEAKING AT KING’S
COLLEGE, LONDON.
In my first paper on this subject I laid before you the general outline
of my theory, that in those rises and falls of the human voice, not
necessarily in power or volume, but in the musical scale, by which, when
we speak, we convey our various passions and emotions to our fellow-
creatures, there is a general law of antithesis prevailing, and I attempted
to show by an illustration how the very same words might be made to
convey to the hearer either supplication or command, accordingly as they
were delivered, in the former case with the voice ascending, in the
latter with the voice descending in the musical scale.
These elements of the voice I imagine to have been inherent in man
ever since he was capable of expressing his emotions by his vocal
organs, and I contend they are universally recognised, not only by all
races of mankind, but certainly by most, if not all, the lower animals
as well; so that even the horse or the dog, by the key in which his
master speaks to him, and the ascents or descents of his master’s words
in the musical scale, knows perfectly well whether his master’s feelings
towards him at the time are those of amiability and satisfaction, or of
anger and disapproval, at his conduct in the hunting-field or on the
moor.
It is certainly curious, when we consider for how many unnumbered
ages man has expressed his emotions by voice and speech, that, as far
as I know, any attempt to investigate and classify the elements by which
he did so, in any scientific form, was not made till rather more than a
hundred years ago, and this was done by a most original, laborious, and
painstaking author, who appears to have been in all such subjects much
in advance of his time, of the name of Joshua Steele, and he not only
attempted to investigate this range of the voice in the musical scale
when we express our emotions by language, and showed how much
greater is the range in that scale in emotional than it is in unemotional
language; but he went further, investigated the true functions of the
larynx in maintaining the poise or measure in speech, examined other
elements of language, and finally reduced the whole to a regular system
of notation, and gave the result of his labours and profound study of
the whole subject in a large 4to volume, published in 1770, entitled,
Prosodia Rationalis / or, an jEssay towards establishing the Melody
end Measure of Speech, to be Expressed and Perpetuated by Peculiar
* Read at a recent meeting of the Psychological Society.
i Symbols. The work now lies on the table before me for your
| inspection.
Steele states in the opening chapter of his most interesting treatise,
j that he had long entertained opinions concerning the melody and
rhythm of languages, and particularly of English, and was very desirous,
i if possible, to contrive a method of notation, by which might be marked
the varying sounds of the voice in human speech, which it was clear to
| him ran through a large extent between notes that he called acute and
j grave. He appears, too, to have been the first person, at all events in
this country, who gave a true and scientific definition of the essential
| distinction between the music of song and the music of speech
| —a distinction that has been accepted and adopted ever since by
| every author who has written on the subject; for he says
■ that the music of song consists of a series of sounds moving dis-
■ tinctly from grave to acute, or vice versa, either gradually or saltim by
intervals, of which the semi-tone, commonly so called, may be con¬
sidered the common measure or division without a fraction, and always
dwelling for a perceptible space of time on one certain note, whereas
the melody of speech moves rapidly up or down by slides, wherein no
graduated distinction of tones or semi-tones can be measured by the ear.
“ Every one admits,” he says, “ that singing is performed by the ascent
and descent of the voice through a variety of notes, as palpably and
formally different from each other, as the steps of a ladder.” It seems,
therefore, he continues, at first sight, somewhat extraordinary that men
of science should not have perceived these slides of the voice, upwards
and downwards in human speech. But the knowledge of the various distinct
notes of ordinary music is not only laid open to those multitudes who
learn that art, but also being rendered visible and palpable to the un¬
learned by the keys of organs and such like musical instruments, it
happens that almost every one knows the variety of notes to arise in
part from the difference between acute and grave tones. In travel¬
ling through a country, apparently level, how few people perceive the
ascents and descents that would astonish them if the man of science
were to demonstrate them with his instrument I In like manner, when
the flow of the melody of speech shall be ripened into method by art,
even the vulgar may be taught to know what the learned now se6m
scarce able to comprehend.
Joshua Steele then adopted the following system of notation for the
music of speech. In order to mark the quantity and duration of |the
sound of the vowel, that is the duration of time during which the voice
rests or dwells upon the vowel in proportion as the same is long or short,
according to the law of the language, he took the ordinary notes in
music, viz., semibreve, minim, crotchet, quaver, &c., and he also took
the ordinary musical notation for rests or pauses. For the increase and
diminution in the power and volume of the voice, he also adopted
the ordinary marks of crescendo and diminuendo, and the same with all
III. the other marks, forte,piano, &c., used in the music of song, so far as
they were applicable to the music of speech, and then to indicate the
simple inflections of the voice rising or falling in the musical scale he
| adopted these marks (/) for the rising, this fy-) for the falling, while to
| indicate the places where those peculiar compound inflections, accom¬
panied by an increase and then diminution in the power and volume of
I the sound of the voice, he took this (^) for what he called the grave-
acute, where the voice first falls in the musical scale on the vowel, and
then rises on it; and this for what he termed the acute-grave,
| where the opposite movement takes place, and the voice first rises in the
musical scale, and then descends. But our author did not terminate his
labours here. Having investigated all that seemed to lie within his
power as regarded the melody of speech, his next attempt was to dis-
ll cover, if possible, the laws which govern its rhythm, and in this
attempt I believe he fully succeeded, for his system is, I am convinced,
| i founded on truth, and based on physiological laws, which arise out of
(| the very nature of the mechanism and action of the organs of voice
(| and speech themselves; and by which certain words and syllables are
>j made what he terms heavy and others light. For the heavy housed
]| this sign (a), and for the light (.*.), and he contended that when
|| Baccheius, Aristeides, Quintilianus, and other old Greek writers spoke
of words or syllables being in “thesis” they meant that such were
heavy, and when in “ arsis ’’ that they were light. And upon this
i theory he said that not only might the melody of speech be reduced to a
system of notation, but that that melody could be divided into regular
bars just as you have bars in the notation of the melody of a song.
You may now be interested in seeing the whole of Joshua Steele’s
i! system applied to a regular composition: and here it is as a permanent
(j record of the mode in which David Garrick interpreted Hamlet’s
11 soliloquy, “To be, or not to be,” &c., on the stage of Drury-lane
Theatre, in 17 70.’i! There is one very interesting anecdote here told by
(i Steele. He says that he was favoured with an interview with Garrick,
I and explained to him fully his system of noting the melody, rhythm, and
other elements of speech; and that, after several judicious remarks and
appropriate questions on the part of Garrick, the great tragedian finally
said, in substance—“ Now, Mr. Steele, am I to understand that, sup-
j posing I deliver a speech on the stage, or anywhere else, and it is noted
by you at the time according to this system, in the exact manner in
which I spoke it, do you mean to say that any other person, by the help
of your system of notation, and the principles on which it is founded,
will be able to pronounce all the words in the same tones, and exactly
in the same manner, as the speech was originally delivered by me?”
To which Steele made the following answer—“ Supposing a first-rate
I musician writes down a piece of music which he has just played in the
most exquisite manner on an exceedingly fine-toned violin, another
performer, on an ordinary fiddle, will undoubtedly be able to play every
note the same as the great master, though perhaps with less ease,
delicacy, and elegance of expression; but, still, notwithstanding his
playing every note of the air correctly, and marking the time properly,
l i * Steele’s work, with Hamlet’s soliloquy thus noted, was here exhibited to the meeting.
March 23, 1877, THE SElBlTUALIST. Ul
and attending to every element of musical expression exactly as it is
written by the composer, nothing will prevent the audience from per¬
ceiving that the natural tone of his instrument is execrable. So,
though this system of notation of the melody of speech which I have
invented, and the principles on which it is based, will enable a master to
teach a right application of the rules, when the voice should rise in the
musical scale, and when it should fall, according to the meaning of the
sentence, and the passions and emotions that have to be expressed;
though it will make the pupil acquainted with the laws of poises,
emphasis, and other elements of the voice in reading and speaking,
which, it must be admitted, will go a great way in the improvement of
elocution, yet they cannot give a full, rich, and flexible voice, or fine
taste, delicate sensibility, or vivid imagination, where such have been
denied by nature.” A very wise and judicious answer of Mr. Steele, it
seems to me, which puts the whole art of elocution in its true light, and
gives it neither more nor less than its just claims, and assigns it what
is its undoubted due. Under a proper, scientific system of instruction,
and with careful, regular practice in the pupil, even voices weak in
power and poor in quality may be much strengthened and improved,
and an indifferent reader or speaker, undoubtedly, rendered much
better: but, still, where the chest is narrow, or contracted; where the
vocal and speech organs are naturally ill-formed, or defective; or if
taste, imagination, and sensibility of feeling be wanting, neither the
very best system of instruction, nor the most skilful master in the world,
will be able to make such a pupil an absolutely good reader or speaker.
That the Greeks and Romans, in the old classic times, knew perfectly
well what we now term the inflections and modulations of the voice,
and the uses they served the orator in the expression of all the various
passions, emotions, and feelings of the soul (although they have left no
analysis, or definite and scientific system of principles in regard to their
application, for our instruction) is perfectly evident; for I find in
Quintilian, Book xi. cap. 3, a very remarkable passage, which I trans¬
late thus
“ The second observation on the true management of the voice
relates to variety, which alone constitutes an eloquent delivery. And
let it not be imagined that the equability of the voice already recom¬
mended is inconsistent with variety; for unevenness is the fault oppo¬
site to equability, and the opposite to variety is that monotony which
consists of one unvaried tone, or key, in expression or delivery. The
art of varying the tones of the voice not only affords pleasure and relief
to the hearer, but, by the alternation of exercise of his vocal organs,
relieves the speaker; just as changes of posture and motion, of standing,
walking, sitting, and lying, are grateful; and we cannot for a long time
submit to any one of them. The voice is always to be adapted to the
subject and emotions of the soul, so as never to be at variance
with their true expression. This is the great art. We should therefore
guard against that infirmity of voice in delivery, called by the Greeks
fiovoeiSric (monotony). Even in the same passages, and in the expres¬
sion of the same feelings, there must be in the voice certain nice
changes of tone, according to the dignity of the language, the nature of
the emotions that have to be expressed, the beginning, the conclusion,
or the transitions require; for even painters who confine themselves
only to one colour in their work, nevertheless bring out some parts more
strongly, and touch others more faintly; and this they are obliged to
do, in order to preserve the first forms and outlines of their figures.”
The first author after Steele who entered upon an examination of the
inflections and modulations of the human voice in the expression of
passions and emotions was John Walker, the author of the well-known
pronouncing dictionary. But there was little attempt at a scientific
classification, and he does not seem to have had a suspicion of the exist¬
ence of a law of antithesis underlying all the rises and falls of the voice
in the musical scale, as well as the keys in which they are pitched, and
which, I contend, is more or less manifest, not only as regards the
passions and emotions expressed in sentences, but also as regards their
logical meaning.
Though they were contemporaries it is rather curious that neither in
the elaborate works of Steele nor Walker do we find the slightest
allusion made by one to the other, and of the theory of the poise, or the
thesis and arsis of speech, the distinctive feature of Steele’s Prosodia
Rationalis and on which he based his whole system of the rhythm or
measure of speech, Walker appears to be entirely ignorant. But
Steele’s theory and definition of the inflections he appears to accept
fully, for he admits that all vocal sounds are capable of being divided
into two kinds—the music of song, and the music of speech; and his
definition is in substance almost exactly the same as Steele’s, for he
says that whilst in the music of song the sounds continue for a given
time on a precise point in the musical scale, and leap, as it were, from
one note to another, in the music of speech, instead of dwelling on the
note they begin with, they either slide upwards or downwards to the
neighbouring notes, without—save on very rare occasions—any per¬
ceptible rest on any; so that speaking sounds and singing sounds are so
far essentially distinct: the former being generally in motion from the
moment they commence, the latter usually being at rest for some
given time on one precise note. The difficulty of arresting speaking
sounds has made all authors suppose it impossible to give any such
distinct account of them as to be of practical use in reading and
and speaking; and, indeed, the wonderful variety of tones which a
good reader or speaker throws into delivery, and of which it is impos¬
sible to convey any idea but by imitation, has led us easily to suppose
that nothing at all of this variety can be defined and reduced to rules.
But when we consider that whether words are pronounced in a high or
low key, in a loud or soft tone; whether they are pronounced quickly or
slowly, forcibly or feebly, they mustnecessarily be pronounced either sliding
upwards or sliding downwards in the musical scale, or else go into a mono¬
tone ; when we consider all this, we cannot but come to the conclusion, I
think, that all the emotions, passions, and feelings of the soul, as well as all
the ideas of the intellect, when they find utterance in the living language
j of the human voice, do so in this primary division of all speaking sounds
| into the upward or downward movement in the musical scale, or a com¬
pound of them, and that whatever other diversity of time, tone,
emphasis, &c., may be added to speaking or reading, it must necessarily
I be chiefly conveyed by these two slides, though pitched, of course, in a
| great variety of keys. Consequently these two slides, or inflections, as
I they are now more commonly termed, are the axis, as it were, on which
1 all the variety, power, melody, and general emotional effects of all
speaking and reading must turn. They may be considered as the great
outlines of sentences and clauses of sentences when uttered by the
living voice, and if these outlines can be tolerably conveyed to a
speaker or reader, they must be of nearly the same use to him that the
rough draught of a picture is to a student in the art of painting.
I fear I have trespassed somewhat unduly on your attention this
evening; but as I wrote on and reflected on this (to me, at least) deeply
interesting subject one thought suggested another, until my paper has
I extended to its present length. But even up to the present time I have
only been able to lay before you general theories, and on the proof of
the truth of these theories I have scarcely been able to enter at all. If
| I have awakened a sufficient amount of interest in the subject in the
members of the Psychological Society to follow me further in the in¬
vestigation, I should like, before the close of the present session, to
prepare and lay before you two more papers, for the purpose of proving
by the actual test of the experience, gained through our sense of
| hearing, that there does exist a law of antithesis in regard to the ex-
| pression of our passions and emotions, by which I mean that, supposing
a particular emotion, such as love or affection, expresses itself in
| language, by the voice rising in the musical scale, it will be found that
| the opposite emotion—hate—expresses itself in language by the voice
I descending in the musical scale, and the higher the voice ascends in the
j one case, or descends in the other, not necessarily in power or volume,
but in note, so much the more intensely will those emotions be expressed.
(STormpflitiiena.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal audits readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.']
j i THE BLOMBEUG GHOST AGAlX.
I j Sir,-—The cry is still “They come,” and if it were not for fear of
ilj “ M.A. (Oxon) ” being quite overwhelmed by surprises, I would ask
I | you to publish yet another version of the Blomberg ghost story, which
1 i I have just lighted upon, and which contains a few more various read-
i j ings to, perplex those who like accuracy.
jl This account is to be found in Vol. II., p. 449, of the Journals and
] j Correspondence of T. S. Whalley, D.D., published in 1863, and forms
j j a note by the editor, the Rev. Hill "Wickham, Rector of Horsington,
j j who says:—
111 “ The name of Dr. Blomberg has often turned up in the course of
i | the preceding correspondence, and we find it mentioned here in con-
! | nection with Carlton House.
Hi “ His intimacy with the Royal family arose from a very remarkable
j j circumstance. His father was a British officer, and in the earlier
i| j part of the reign of George III. he was quartered in the West Indies,
ilj together with Major Torriano (mentioned, Yol. I., p. 247), but in
j j different islands, the latter being in St. Kitts. One night, as Major
jji Torriano and another officer were lying in the same room, they sud-
101 denly saw Blomberg standing before them. On expressing their great
| surprise, he informed them that it was only his shade which they saw,
| as he had just fallen a victim to rapid disease, and was permitted to
| appear, in order that he might request them, on their return home, to
I make diligent search in a certain house in Scotland, where, in a chest,
| documents would be found which would put his only son, then young,
| in possession of a small property. The officers gave their promise, and
the ghost disappeared.
“ In the course of a few days intelligence reached St. Kitts of the
death of Blomberg on the night in question ; and in due time search
was made for the papers, which were found, and the boy obtained his
I property. The story being much talked of at the time, came to the
ears of the Royal family, and Blomberg was sent for by George III:
to be brought up with the young princes. There was apparently
i nothing remarkable in his character to call forth a special providence
in his behalf, and he was only distinguished for his taste and skill in
music. He was brought up to the church, and, under royal favour, ob¬
tained various pieces of preferment. Latterly he was Canon of St.
Paul’s, to which he was appointed in 1822; Chaplain to the Queen ;
and incumbent of the valuable vicarage of St. Giles’, Cripplegate.”
This is the first account I have seen which mentions Major
. | Torriano as the friend who took charge of young Blomberg, or Scot-
j jj land as the locality of the important writings.
j j Major Charles Torriano was killed at Toulon when retaken by
[j Buonaparte in 1793. He was a captain in the 20th Regiment of Foot
Hi in 1782, and in that year married Hester, daughter of Lieutenant-
! | General La Faussille. Mrs. Torriano was well known to Dr. Whalley,
|)i and Mr. Wickham was, I believe, a connection of the Whalley family,
II so the testimony seems to be as good as is usually to be had for ghost
stories.
I There is at this time a Mr. Torriano, a barrister, who may be related
| to the Major, and may be able to give some information about the
story, if any Spiritualist knows him well enough to make the inquiry;
j or, possibly, one of your readers in the North Riding might be able to
obtain some details from the present possessor of the estate at Kirkby,
Misperton, near Pickering, which the communication of the ghost
enabled his son to enjoy.
I greatly wish that some one who is acquainted with “ A. M, H. W.”
142
THE S PI BIT U A LI ST.
March 23, 3 877.
could induce her to give some further particulars about the story in
The Spiritualist X. 71.
Many family legends which might possibly be substantiated by
evidence, if they were now carefully inquired into, will be beyond
verification, if efforts are not quickly made to rescue the particulars of
them from oblivion.
As to the probability of obtaining reliable information I am not over
sanguine.
What information except contemporary records can be relied upon ?
And, supposing such to be obtained, how far can they be relied upon
for details ? The account which “A. M. H. W.” has placed on record,
purports to be written by the gentlemen who took charge of young
Blomberg, and who must have known him well. Surely he is good
evidence. This account was written about the years 1779—1781, <>r
(roughly) from 15 to 17 years after the death of Dr. Blomberg’s
father, and in that time the kind Lieutenant had forgotten the child’s
name, and twice calls him Edward, though his real Christian names
were Frederick William.
Well indeed may “ M.A.” (Oxon.) say, “ What reliance can be put
on any of these traditional stories 1 ” I incline to say of them, as
Socrates (I think) said of things in general, “ All that we know is,
nothing can be known.” W. Whitear.
High-street, Hornsey, March 14th, 1877.
SPECULATIONS ABOUT REINCARNATION.
Sir,—It appears to me that the objections raised by “ Grlaueus ” to
■the theory of reincarnation in the Count de Bullet’s letter, given in
your paper of the 9th inst., refute themselves.
1st. To admit reincarnation, even on another planet, is virtually to
concede everything—e.g., for a Hottentot to be reincarnated among
civilised people (that is, in another totally different sphere), or even
for wild men of the woods, who live in trees, who can barely be said
to have a language, such as I have come across in Indian jungles,
to be reincarnated among Hottentots is tantamount to removal to
another planet, whose conditions are higher. In a creation in which
everything is in an unceasing state of progression, it is evidently im¬
possible for any one to return to exactly the same sphere. They Can
never go over again what they have already done, but they may come
back to such a sphere in the planet (which has been, mark you, still
always advancing during their absence) as will enable them to accom¬
plish what they have left undone. The case given of the rich man;
coming back as a poor man, and yielding to temptation, shows that he
needed the trial—that he had, like many others, only not failed be¬
cause he was not tried—not tempted. Allan Kardec does not assert
that all suffering is the punishment of mistakes made in a former in¬
carnation ; he merely says it may sometimes be so.
2nd. Glaucus has been reincarnated in other planets. Was he
Glaucus in all of them ? Had he the same father and mother, and
other relations (supposing the conditions of existence analogous to
those on earth), as he had here ? The true individuality resides in the
spirit, and not in its temporary fleshly envelope. It strikes me I have
read more than once in spiritual communications that each spirit has
a spiritual name or number, which expresses exactly its state of ad¬
vancement for the time being, and that, by that, it is known in the
spirit world. Of course, this name or number must be always changing,
but so gradually that the identity is never lost—the change is in the
nature of things. That, too, is how we are recognised in the spirit
world during the sleep of the body.
Lastly—no one reincarnationist, or otherwise, ever dreams that true
affection is not spiritual. It is only mere sensual affection that dies
with the body, or even ceases to exist before the latter does so. Still,
mere jleshly ties are not permanent. For instance, it is unlikely that
Glaucus and his earthly relations all advanced exactly in the same
ratio. His earthly father and mother may not have been qualified to
accompany him, or precede him, to the next planet he went to. He
would, therefore, there have different parents, and neither these nor
his earthly ones would be the parents of his spirit; that can have but
one parent—i.e., God.
Glaucus, like many others at this time, may have been re-attracted
to earth, with a view to reincarnation, so as to more effectually aid in
the great movement now going on. If that takes place, we may be
pretty sure that, for the time, except during bodily sleep, he will have
but a very hazy, if any, recollection of having ever been Glaucus.
Such a recollection might interfere with his mission.
What was Jesus in the estimation off those who deny his absolute
divinity ? Was he not evidently an advanced spirit, reincarnated as a
messenger 1 Our Messiahs are many, and of many degrees. In fact,
every one has his mission. H. M.
Bath, March 14, 1877.
TRANSFORMATION AND MATERIALISATION PHENOMENA.
Sir,—I believe the recognition of the fact of transfiguration to be so
important that I venture to recur to the subject with another instance.
In the Spiritual Scientist of October 28th, 1875, a correspondent
records that he witnessed at the residence of one Mr. Barber, of Austin,
Texas, the following phenomena through the mediumship of a gentleman
named Psirne. He stood in a shaded corner of a well-lighted room, his
head enveloped in a shawl. After shuddering (compare the “ rattle
like some electrical machine,” and trembling of the room, noticed in
my last week’s communication), he lifted up the shawl, and disclosed a
face not his own—i.e., he was transfigured before them.
The spirit-faces so seen, or, rather, the cases of transfiguration, were
five:—
1. An Indian face, with long straight black hair, and black eyes.
2. A “ corpse-like lace,” different from No. 1.
j 3. A “ death-like face ” of a woman with glassy eyes.
4. A $ half-materialised face,” of which only eyes, nose, and part of
j jaw were discernible.
5. The face of a man with long black beard—(the medium having no
j natural beard).
Now, it is not easy to criticise what one has not seen, but, assuming
the veracity of the record, I correlate it with other narratives—such as
that communicated by me last week, and one mentioned by Miss Kis-
lingbury in her paper on “Form Manifestations”; and I submit again
that these narratives supply hints which we shall do well to follow out.
Instead of excluding a medium from all possibility of observation, I
should like to watch the changes which occur in his appearance most
carefully. Does his face always undergo change ?—of what kind ?—to
what extent ?—what variation in the pulse ?—in the temperature of the
body ? Scores of questions suggest themselves.
I shall be met with the objection that I am asking an impossibility.
I do not think so. I know well enough that the controlling spirits will
object. They always do object to any new suggestion, and, what is
worse, by declining to follow plain common-sense suggestions, they fre¬
quently place their mediums in very equivocal positions. But this is
not a new idea. In The Spiritualist of June 1, 1873, 1 find a record of
a seance at Mr. Williams’ rooms, he being the medium. John King is
said there to have volunteered the remark that Katie was working hard
to show him and the medium at the same time, and that this would be one
of the manifestations of the future. “ The spirits would be able to
produce the result better in an open room than in a cabinet. Perhaps
the test condition would be to let Mr. Williams lie on a sofa, and he
(J. K.) expected to be seen floating over him.”
It is very nearly four years since that was said, and we have had
materialisation seances ever since. But the old type has prevailed, and
investigators who want to be sure of their ground are little better off
than they were then. Still are we ignorant, in a given case, of what
we are looking at. No one knows how the astounding phenomena are
produced, or whether that most tremendous assertion is true or not, viz.,
that a separate human body, perfect in details, though energised from
the medium, has been created before him. Is it spirit jugglery only l
or is it what it is pretended to be ?
These questions and their like will never be properly faced till we get
rid of the present conditions of investigation, and substitute more pre¬
cise ones. Dr. Slade sits in the circle. John King, four years ago,
suggested what would be an admirable experiment. One such face-to-
face interview with him would be better than a whole year of those
illusory experiments, which we have had far too much of. I have well-
nigh ceased to expect from them anything but bewilderment. They do
not advance my knowledge : they do not suggest anything but curious
jugglery. And, if more care be not taken, one day we shall have another
fiasco. A stranger will gain admittance to a public circle, will rush to
his conclusions, not unfairly from his own standpoint, will grasp at one
of these solid forms, and we shall find that he has got hold, perhaps, of
the transfigured medium, who we shall vainly try to persuade him is
a perfectly honest man used by external agencies in a way of which he is
unconscious. It need not be a dishonest way at all, for if it be that the
medium is transformed or transfigured, that is a legitimate and most
striking phenomenon, if only we will take the trouble to look into and
understand it.
To that end I want to know in each separate case whether what I am
looking at is transformation or materialisation. And I shall never know
that under present conditions. Therefore I agitate for their change.
Let us have the sofa, the reclining medium, and the hovering spirit
form by all means. M. A. (Oxon.)
Sir,—On Thursday last five persons were sitting at the table at
which I am now writing. I was sitting away from the table in an arm
chair, under the gaslight (half on). About the middle of the sitting,
one of those present exclaimed, “How black uncle is getting! Oh !
there is a black man ! ” The other sitters say they distinctly saw the
curly head of an Indian first placed on the scalp, then as if a flexible
mask were drawn down over the face, and then the peculiar flat nose
of the Indian formed. The blackness of the hands and arms, up under
the sleeves of the coat, was distinctly seen by my wife. One of the
sitters was suffering from asthma. He said, “ It’s an Indian chief.”
The control, in broken English, replied, “ No, no. Medicine man.”
On expressing a wish to be relieved of his asthma, the control said,
“ Through a medium.” Immediately thereon a young lady was seized
with a severe and alarming cough, which lasted several minutes, and,
on her recovery, the subject of asthma was greatly relieved. The control
spelled out his name as “ Zeytvywrpy,” and promised to come again.
X.
Plymouth.  —■
A SPECTRE BUTLER.
Sir,—I beg to submit for your inspection the following narrative of
spiritual phenomena which came under my personal observation.
Should you deem it worthy of a place in The Spiritualist, I shall be
glad to make one of the ever-increasing phalanx who, through the
medium of your columns, have offered their testimony to prove that
“ there are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in ”
—orthodox theology.
| There is in D—“-shire, Scotland, an old family seat which bears
the reputation of being haunted. .Tradition [says, in the days when
the castle (now a picturesque, ivy-clad ruin) was inhabited by the
family of -, one of the lords of the soil had a butler to Whom he
bore a grudge, but upon whom he could not find a plausible excuse to
wreak his vengeance. At last he accused the unfortunate man of
stealing apples, confined him in a dungeon, and rode off to Edinburgh,
carrying the key of the dungeon with him. Some days afterwards he
found the key in his pocket, and, struck with horror and remorse for his
March 23, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
143
carelessness, he sent a man posting back to D shire, with the key.
The dungeon was opened; but too late. The miserable inmate was
dead. Starvation had done its work.
For some time all ghost-laying expedients failed to prevent the spirit
of the murdered man from walking. At length a copy of the Bible
(then a rare article) was procured. Its presence brought a temporary
lull. It was kept in the upper story, and, for a time, the poor butler
confined his peregrinations to the lower. Years rolled on. A new house
was built at some distance from the castle, and the family moved into
the new mansion. The ghost, not to be baulked, also moved, and
visited them as of yore. About fifty or sixty years ago the old Bible
became so dilapidated that it was sent to Edinburgh to be rebound and
repaired, and during its absence the ghost held carnival and terrified the
occupants of the house so much that the return of the Bible was wel¬
comed with joy, and it is now kept in a strong box, and only occasionally
exhibited, with due reverence, to visitors. The butler generally appears
carrying a tray with apples and a lighted candle thereon, and when
any one approaches he blows out the candle and vanishes. So much for
tradition.
In the spring of 1875 I visited the place, and lived there for a short
time. On the night of my arrival I was tired and very sleepy, but I
was kept awake for some time by the sound of footsteps pacing back¬
wards and forwards in the room above mine. It sounded as if there
were two people moving—one with a soft muffled tread, the other with
the tap-tapping of high heels on a wooden floor, and now and then a
thud like the fall of some soft substance. The sounds were so unmis¬
takably foot-falls that after listening for a time I fell asleep, full of pity
for my more wakeful neighbours. Next morning, upon mentioning
the noises I had heard, I was informed that the room above mine
was on the garret floor, the whole of which was occupied with lumber.
The noises were imputed to a lively imagination on my part, but I was
nevertheless asked not to talk about any odd noises I might hear in future,
as the servants and children might be alarmed.
No footsteps were audible next pight, and I soon went to sleep; but
I awoke suddenly and felt an icy wind pass over my face. I knew
the spirit-wind, and was, therefore, scarcely astonished when the
room filled with a soft ambient light, which gradually faded and
vanished in a pointed beam like a streak of the aurora. Then a deep
sigh sounded close beside me—steps, as if of bare feet, tripping over
the wax cloth, and the fluttering of a flowing garment of some soft
material passed round my bed. Again a sigh was heaved. I jumped
up, lit a candle, and found door and window bolted as I had left them.
No living thing was near. A month ago a girl told me of a “ strange
light ” which she had seen while living in the said house. , Her
description of what she saw agrees exactly with the phenomena which
I have detailed above.
In December, 1876,1 was again with my friends in D shire. I
heard footsteps as on the occasion of my former visit, and this time
there were also rays. No creaking or cracking of old furniture, or
doors, or windows, but veritable electric or spirit raps. My visit was
drawing to a close; I was beginning to think, with some disappoint¬
ment, that I was not to be favoured with any visible manifestations.
However, one night, in going through the corridor, I passed close to a
window, when a figure brushed past me. So close was it that I felt
without absolutely touching it. I turned sharply round, expecting to
see one of the servants, but nobody was near. Next night, in the same
place, and at the same hour, one of the children saw “the ghost,” and
rushed into my room, white and shivering with terror.
Before closing, I would add I have simply made a statement of facts.
Some who read will doubt; but I trust good “ honest doubt ” will lead
them to honest inquiry as to the possible why and wherefore of such
phenomena. Every little effort to make clear the truth, is another
helping hand added to those that are endeavouring to roll the pall of
darkness back over the mountains of doubt, and so make the glimmering
dawn give place to the glorious light of God’s perfect day.
Hans Lynn.
Edinburgh, March, 1877. ■ —
SPIRITUALISM AT SOWERBY BRIDGE.
Sir,—Spiritualism, I am sorry to say, does not flourish in this town,
not that its advocates are wanting either in earnestness or sincerity, but
that the inhabitants, as a rule, show a general indifference to inquiring
into any subject which requires energy or application of pursuit. To
the mass, Spiritualism seems to be too absurd or too intricate to induce
them to devote that attention which as a science it requires.
Some of the old workers have left the vicinity, others have gone to
foreign homes—as far distant as New Zealand. Your reporter had the
pleasure of being present, last Sunday, at three services held at the
Spiritualistic Progressive Lyceum (the only one of its kind, I believe,
in the United Kingdom). The morning service was at 10.30, and was
intended for children, being conducted on the same principles as
“ Children’s Lyceums ” are in the United States. Mr. Broadbent, jun.,
presided, and conducted the whole service, which consisted in singing
selections from The Spiritual Harp, marching, calisthenic exercises,
and class instruction. The subject treated by the senior class—
“ What is the best Evidence we have of Man being a Spiritual Being, apart
from Scriptural Authority ? ” was treated in an able manner by various
members. In the junior class the subject was—“ The Circulation of
Blood.” At 2.30 p.m. the platform was occupied by Mr. Wilson, of
Keighley, inspirational speaker, Professor James Coates, the mesmerist,
in the chair. The subject for the afternoon was “ Blessings, Common
and Uncommon.”
At the evening service the same speaker delivered an oration on
“What ami? whence came I? and whither am I bound?” It was
listened to with attention and evident appreciation. The services of
Mr. Wilson are in much request in this part of the country. Professor
Coates has been occupying the Town Hall with a course of five lectures
on Mesmerism, and his lectures and experiments have been favourably
received.
The Spiritualists in this neighbourhood intend holding a social
gathering and entertainment on Good Friday at the Lyceum, when I
hope that they will have a pleasant re-union.
Charles Perceval Fitz-Gerald.
6, Green Up-terrace, Sowerby-bridge, Yorkshire.
MR. E. W. WALLIS AND EAST END SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—At a meeting of our Council last week, a letter was read from
Mr. E. W. Wallis on the work being carried on in Spiritualism at the
East-end of London, and appealing for pecuniary help in discharging a
debt of ^13 incurred by Mr. Wallis on re-opening the Spiritualist Insti¬
tution after the death of Mr. Cogman. From a statement published in
the Medium newspaper, it appears that since Mr. and Mrs. Wallis com¬
menced their work thirty-three meetings have been held, consisting of
eleven Sunday meetings, ten developing circles, eleven open circles on
Wednesdays, and one healing seance. The sums received in subscrip¬
tions and voluntary contributions are sufficient to cover the working
expenses of the Institution, but leave nothing for the remuneration of
Mr. Wallis and other mediums who give their services.
The usefulness of a Spiritualist institution at the East-end of London
being universally attested to by all who have attended the meetings,
both under the management of Mr. Cogman and Mr. Wallis, the Council
resolved to grant two guineas to head a subscription list to enable Mr.
Wallis to clear off the debt on the institution, and also to engage Mr.
Wallis for a course of trance seances at Great Russell-street, These
will probably take place after Easter on Saturday afternoons.
I shall be happy to receive contributions from any friends towards the
Wallis fund. Mr. Martin Smith has subscribed £l Is.
Emily Kislingbury,
Secretary British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, London.
Dr. Sexton has rgiven up the editing of The Spiritual Magazine to
Mr. Enmore Jones.
On Tuesday, the 27th inst., Mr. Newbon will sell by auction, at the
Assembly Booms, Camborne, Cornwall, a large number of works on
Spiritualism, late the property of Mr. Samuel Hocking, C.E., deceased.
Under the auspices of some of the Spiritualists of Glasgow, Mrs. M,
G. Parker lectured last Sunday to a large audience on “ The Philosophy
of Minding our own Business.” On the preceding Sunday Mr. Harper,
of Birmingham, lectured in the same place.
Spiritualist’s Defence Fund. —Since the subscription list was
withdrawn from the advertisements, £3 has been received from the
Spiritualist Society of.Buda-Pesth. The labours of the committee are
drawing to a close, and their funds are nearly exhausted. They are
winding up their accounts, and'will shortly present their final report.
The Appeal for Mr. Aldridge.—Mr. W. Eglinton, St. James’s
House, Walthamstow, writes to acknowledge the following sums
received by him in response to an appeal for Mr. Aldridge made in
this journal. Contributions are still earnestly solicited, and will be
duly acknowledged :—Mrs. Currie, 2s. 6d.; Mrs. B., 2s. 6d.; A. M., 2s.;
Miss B., 2s. 6d.; Miss A. Maltby, 5s. ; Mrs. Nicholls, 6s.; T. S., 2s.;
A Friend,” Edinburgh, 5s. ; Mr. Charles Blackburn, £l; Mr. Avison,
5s.; Mr. Croal, 2s. 6d.; Mr. Mialle, 5s,; Mrs. Arundale, IQs.; Mr.
Chadwick, 6d.; Mr. Buckley, 2s. 6d. ; Mr. J. Chadwick, 2s. 6d.;
“ G. F. G.” and Friends, 5s.; Mr. Dousing, 6d.; Colonel P. Greek,
£l Is.; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 10s.; Mr. Piekersgill, 10s. ;
Mrs. L., 4s.; Mr. W. Glynn, 12s.; Mrs. Elmore, 2s. 6d.; Mr. G.
Boyd, 5s.; and “M.,” 2s.
Dr. Sexton.—In a letter to The Christian World, Dr. Sexton says,
in answer to the question of a “ Nonconformist Minister,” as to
whether he was “ the Dr. Sexton who was formerly associated with the
Secularists, and who left them for and through Spiritualism,” that “ the
Nonconformist Minister is probably sufficiently acquainted with my
movements to be aware of the fact that for a little over a year I was the
editor of a paper called the Christian Spiritualist, the sole object of
which was to give to this modern philosophy a Christian basis; and
that, not only did my periodical receive little or no support from
Spiritualists, but that I was myself vehemently denounced and bitterly
persecuted by many of the leading men in the cause, in consequence of
my adhesion to Christianity. And those who have watched my career
will know that, for the past four years, at least, whatever part I may
have taken in the spiritual movement, I have adhered strictly to
Christian truth, and have made myself an incredible number of enemies
by so doing. That it was Spiritualism that first led me to re-investigate
the great questions of God and immortality, and indirectly, therefore, to
return to that Christianity which is to me to be prized, not only more
than all other kinds of human knowledge, but above the teachings of
the highest archangels in the heavens, were it possible that they could
be made directly to man, is, to a large extent, true. Still, Spiritualism,
as a movement, is unfavourable to Christianity, and, as such, I have
vehemently condemned it for some years past. Becently, too, it has
sunk lower than ever, in consequence of the trickery which has been
resorted to by impostors calling themselves mediums, which fact I have
again and again pointed out. I fear you could hardly afford me space
thoroughly to explain what my present views on Spiritualism are; but I
shall probably tell the world the result of my experience of these phe¬
nomena hereafter, and the conclusion at which I have arrived respecting
them. Suffice it to say, that my opinion has undergone a consider¬
able change on the subject within the last year or two; not as to the
reality of the manifestations, but as to their source, their value, their
probable effects upon society, and the desirability of meddling with
them.”
144
THE SPIRITUALIST,
March 23,1877.
SPIRITUALISM IN KENSINGTON.
On Wednesday evening, last week, at a meeting of the Young Men’s
Society held in the school-rooms, Alien-street, Kensington, London,
Mr. Frank Wright gave a lecture upon “ Spiritualism tested by Reason
and Science.” The Rev. Alexander Rayleigh, D.D., presided, and the
admission was free. It was the third lecture of a series Upon the same
subject, and such was the interest evinced that the rooms were quite
full.
THE CREDULITY OF INCREDULITY.
Mr. Wright pointed out how in all previous ages the public had been,
more or less, misled, in consequence of yielding blind obedience to
authority; the authority of Aristotle, for instance, misguided the world
for centuries, and was an obstacle to the progress of scientific truth.
When railways and the electric telegraph were first suggested to the
public, they were ridiculed. A blind and credulous fancy did quite as
much harm as too much scepticism, as in the days when nobody ques¬
tioned the reality of witchcraft, and poor helpless old women were burnt
alive in deference to an ugly popular superstition. Another fault, only
too common, was that of coming to positive conclusions without adequate
data for so doing; for instance, he remembered listening once to a
discussion about a reputed haunted house at Aylesbury; some of those
present were sure that the noises were produced by ghosts; another
theory was that they were due to electricity ; and a third, that “ they
were caused by some stuff which had been brought down from London.”
All these theories were positively advanced on the most slender
evidence, a proper investigation of the real causes of the sounds not
having been made. In the same manner the imposture theory of
spiritual phenomena was brought forward in the most positive manner,
more especially by people who knew nothing whatever about the facts;
their very ignorance of the subject enabled them to advance the theory
unhesitatingly, they not being incommoded with any knowledge of the
actual truth; such persons approached a medium as they would an
“elusive wild beast.” The credulity of incredulity was remarkable.
He knew of a case wherein two very celebrated men first blindfolded a
medium, then sat with him at a dark seance, holding both his hands and
his feet. A chair was placed behind the medium, and what the cele¬
brated investigators required was, that the chair should be lifted over
the head of the medium, and put down on the other side of him, while
they held his hands and his feet. If such a thing were done, under
such conditions, a person endowed with common sense would feel that
there was no way out of the difficulty. Not so. The thing was done.
The man on the one side of the medium said to the one on the other—
“ Oh, you didn’t hold his hands all the time, and that is how that was
done.” The other indignantly brought a like charge against his
brother man of science. This circumstance showed that they had com¬
pletely made up their minds against facts opposed to their theories, and
such a state of mind was much to be deprecated. He fully admitted
the reality of most of the phenomena; was sure that they deserved
patient investigation; and he had an idea that, in the long run, they
would be discovered to be due to forces which were acting around us in
daily life. (Applause). The Spiritualists would fairly object to this
theory that he had not explained the source of the intelligence; but
they should remember, that “ a spirit in the flesh,” endowed with intel¬
ligence, was always present when the phenomena occurred, so it was
more rational to try to explain the facts as due to a spirit in the flesh,
Until they were fairly driven from that standpoint. The facts were
exceedingly perplexing, and he could not, in any way, explain the
writing which he had obtained upon his own slate in the presence of
Dr. Slade.
DIRECT SPIRIT WRITING.
Dr. Rayleigh: Are you quite sure about the facts ?
Mr. Wright: I am quite sure about the facts. Here is the slate, and
that writing was done while the covers were closed, and within fifteen
inches of my nose; I saw the writing produced four times over, and all
the time my closed book-slate was never out of my sight, for I had
determined that nothing short of the Day of Judgment should let my
slate go out of my view while I was in Dr. Slade’s presence.
Dr. Rayleigh: The writing might have been done before the slate
was closed.
Mr. Wright: This slate is my own slate, and was purchased by me at
the Lowther Arcade. Dr. Slade never saw it till I took it into his
room, and he never touched it until it was closed. It never passed out
of my sight, and it has never been cleaned; a tiny morsel of pencil was
placed inside; Dr. Slade held the closed slate, and a message came
upon it with the t’s crossed, and the i’s dotted ; the lines did not run
into each other, and the bit of pencil which did the writing was slightly
worn afterwards, showing that it had been used. After the message
was written, this bit of pencil was found resting upon the last mark
of the last letter when the slate was opened. (Sensation.) I do not ask
anybody to believe this on my testimony, for I could not believe it upon
the testimony of anybody else; still I fully believe and know the
accuracy of my present statement.
Dr. Rayleigh: Oh, I at first thought that nobody touched the slate,
but I can quite comprehend the whole thing now.
A REMARKABLE CASE OF CLAIRVOYANCE.
Mr. Wright: The reason that I went to Dr. Slade was that I saw
several flaws in Professor Lankester’s letter in the Times; consequently
I determined to see for myself. The result is that it would be simple
impudence on my part to insinuate that there was any trickery whatever
in the way in which that writing came. Those things which are
unbelievable at first sometimes establish themselves in the long run in
the public mind. Once Dr. Elliotson was blackballed by the Medical
Society because he read a paper by Dr. Esdaile about the performance
of painless operations while the patient was in a mesmeric sleep ; his
professional brethren turned tail upon hinl. Yet at the present time the
phenomena of mesmerism and clairvoyance are openly confessed to be
true. The late Professor Gregory tested Alexis the clairvoyant by
buying fifty or sixty nuts at a shop, with mottoes in them, and Alexis
read the mottoes before the nuts were cracked. Houdin witnessed his
clairvoyance, and wrote a certificate that the phenomena of clairvoyance
were genuine, and could not be explained by trickery. A remarkable
case was recently brought to my notice. A hard-headed intelligent
Scotch friend of mine was in London giving evidence before a Royal
Commission, and while in town he was asked to search out a young
man who, finding himself unable to support his wife, ran away from her
in shame, and was getting a precarious living in the metropolis as a
lawyer’s writer, without letting his friends know where he was. The
sister of this young man was dying, and had a vision, particulars of
which were sent to my friend by letter at the Westminster Hotel; after¬
wards he had another letter upon the same subject from his wife. The
sick woman said that she was present at the death-bed of her brother;
she gave an outline of his room, and told the name and number of the
street. She described the grate, the pictures on the wall, and the rest
of the room minutely, and she said that the young man was dying. The
doctor was called in—and doctors are supposed to understand every¬
thing—he said it was delirium, and that she was sinking fast; he put
cool bandages to her head. Then he was struck by the explicitness of
her manner, and she described the whole scene again. My friend then
thought that he would look into it. The name of the street, I think,
was Charles-street, of which there are several in London. With some
trouble he discovered, through some law writers, that the young man
did live at “ number eight ” in one of the Charles-streets. There had
been no communication between the young man and his family for nine
months previously. My friend went to the house, and they said that
the person he was in search of did not live there, but that perhaps he
might be found at 8a on the other side, where somebody was dead. He
went to the house, and discovered that the young man had died there on
the preceding night. He asked to see his room, and found by the letter
in his pocket that the room, furniture, pictures, and everything had
been accurately described. The person who saw the whole thing clair-
voyantly was in Edinburgh.
A vote of thanks to the lecturer having been proposed and given,
Dr. Rayleigh said that he heartily approved the lecture ; the speaker
had kept to the safe line of proving all things and holding fast that
which was good. He recommended the safe scientific plan of first
making very sure of the facts, of being slow to adopt any theories, and
in being patient in waiting. He (Dr. Rayleigh) had met with a few
things in life which he could not explain, so he was not at all inclined
to treat as nonsense the strange things which had been put forward, yet
he had an awful amount of caution. In the main he agreed heartily
with all that the lecturer had said.
A round of applause followed these remarks, and the proceedings
closed.  
A HAUNTED HOUSE IN KENT.
The following is an extract from a private letter just received by
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze, of 20, Palmeira-square, Brighton. We do not
publish the locality of the haunted house, not having received per¬
mission as yet to do so from the tenant:—
“ The house, which is known as  , is occupied as a farm
house, but the chief portion of the building is in a ruinous condition.
Mr. , the tenant, states that during the sixteen years he has occu¬
pied the farm, sights and sounds of a remarkable nature have been of
frequent occurrence. Noises are so loud and hideous as to appal even
courageous persons. These are not constant; [sometimes many
months occur without their taking place, and they then recur with
unabated fury, terrifying the cattle and other animals in the stables
and cow-houses, and even in the fields.
“ The appearance of a gentleman in deep mourning has been frequent;
The old servant attached to the house used to go to the door to let
him in, but now takes no notice of him.
“ Two gentlemen came on a visit to have a week’s shooting, but they
were so disturbed that they left the following day.' A lady and gentle¬
man, coming to stay in the house, were so terrified that they could not
remain. The children of the house were warned not to do anything to
irritate or annoy the strange visitants who are supposed to haunt the
place, but they disregarded the warning of their father, and began to
scoff, saying, ‘ Come on, old fellow,’ and so on. A terrific storm of
howling, groaning, and shaking of the house took place.
“ Mr. , who is a remarkably self-possessed man, is not terrified by
these strange occurrences, and supposes that the monks who formerly
inhabited the monastery committed many crimes. • The spirits of these
men and their unfortunate victims, he supposes, now haunt their
former place of residence, and are the causes of these hideous vagaries.
“ Should you deem this recital worthy of attention, and should you
make a visit to the spot, I shall be much interested to hear the result.”
During the Easter holidays the offices of the National Association of
Spiritualists will be closed for some days.
Spiritualism in Brighton.—Last Sunday evening the fourth of a
series of inspirational addresses was delivered at the house of Mr. Snow,
Atlingworth-street, Brighton, by Mr. W. J. Colville. The large drawing¬
room was crowded with an intelligent and appreciative audience. The
address was on “ The Nature and Work of the Holy Spirit,” and was
succeeded by two impromptu poems on “Recognition in the Future
Life ” and “Modern Science,” the latter poem setting forth the relation
of scientific to spiritual truth, and urging the necessity of their union.
The meeting was harmonious. Loud “ raps ” of assent were repeatedly
made in different parts of the room, emphasising passages in the poems
and in the answers to the questions which were freely put; and some
interesting clairvoyant incidents occurred through the mediumship of
two ladies present. The last of this series of addresses will be delivered
on next Sunday evening at seven o’clock.
Maech 23, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
ttalism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
LondomW.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above offloe has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
ftfatkdard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
acts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate, essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 8d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete With well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism Ibr two years without engaging the services of any profes-
ftlbnal medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument ih reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
ftttd contains some Of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. So.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U. S. This
hook consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums/.also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. XL, by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newlyjpublished book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com-
e account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit^ but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and ’America during the past few years in the presence
offamous mediums, and, as a rale, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supornaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science: the Spirit' and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Sims; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo„
500 pp. Cloth 10s. od.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The- review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a|trumpery
character, hut these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this hook, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
' 7s. fid. ,.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
, S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
. is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at Which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM.MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 0s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. fid. -
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporaiy with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid. '
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, fis. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by WilUam Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s,
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevier. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages givpn by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Bev. Canon
Callaway, MD., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post,
fis. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By 0. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. fid.) 4s.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vois.i 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. VoL I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ II.
The Seer. „ III,
The Reformer. „ IV.
The Thinker. „ V. ,,
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. _ .
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the^People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . .
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or, Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures
*. d.
15 G
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
2 0
3 6
3 6
7 6
3 fi
7 C
2 6
3 li
7 6
6 0
7 fi
7 6
6 0
6 0
2 G
3. 0
7 8
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . , . . .
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper
Keys of the Creeds . . . . .
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . .
History of American Socialisms ((Noyes) .
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . .
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal)
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China ito India (400 a.d. and 518 A.n.j. Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam.
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated i
10 0
 into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A . 10 0
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anatlon of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . ;
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A .
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . , . . .
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . .
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools . , • ' . 10
2 0
12
18 6
10 fi
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
3. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conaat.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRI
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM ..JENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds jays of
this little pamphlet: “There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevier. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell, is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d. T,
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr * T.
Hallock, 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST. .
March 23, 1877.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
SPIRITUALISM:
THE SPIRITUALIST FUND,
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London,
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
nvestigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those'of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of A priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—PaftKc Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Brice Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
By Royal Letters Patent
“KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
. IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR,
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, caid affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Published at 7s. 6d. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occarring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about anfmal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Fostag ‘4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
** Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
L
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
IFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
New Works on its Phenomena, Philosophy, and
Present Position.
BY “ M.A. (OXON.) ”
I HAVE been frequently asked to publish a book on Spirit¬
ualism. The facilities which I have enjoyed for personal
investigation, my acquaintance with the literature of the
subject and with prominent workers in it, and the attention
that I have paid to the investigation of its various phases, have
seemed to many to fit me for such a duty.
It is easier asked than done. A book on Spiritualism, if it
did but sketch the subject, should be very voluminous; and,
when written, it would be found to omit more than it dis¬
cussed or recorded. I cannot write such a book; nor do I
think it desirable that any such attempt should be made in the
present state of our knowledge.
But I do think it very important that any person who has
special facilities for observation should use them, and record
their results as best he can. In this belief, I have kept careful
records of what I have seen, and from time to time have pub¬
lished Essays and Reviews on the published opinions of others.
I have also printed a number of chapters of Personal Research
in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism, and have
selected, from a mass that have been automatically written out,
certain Spirit-teachings.
I propose to collect and complete these works.
First, I wish to print a volume of Essays and Reviews.
It will contain, in addition to a number of Reviews of works
of standard American authors—Olcott, Sargent, Tuttle,
Crowell, and others—and a long Essay on the Transcorporeal
Action of Spirit, which have already appeared, much original
matter not yet published. A “pecial feature of the book will
be the introduction to general readers of the best books on
Modern Spiritualism.
The volume will be published at 10s. if sufficient names are
enrolled as subscribers to show that such a book is wanted,
and will pay expenses. I decline pecuniary risk.
I propose hereafter (but not now) to issue two other works,
—one “ Spirit Teachings,” dealing with the religious aspect
of the question; the other, “ Researches in the Phenomena
and Philosophy of Spiritualism,” dealing with the whole
subject in its experimental phases, and with the theory and
philosophy of it. These will come in due time if they find
a place.
For the present I put forward only “Essays and Reviews.”
The following friends have kindly formed themselves into a
committee with a view of carrying out business arrangements.
Those to whose, name * is prefixed will receive names of
Subscribers, and Mr. Percival, the Treasurer, will receive
subscriptions as they become due.
Details of publication will be given when it becomes clear
that the book will meet a demand. Unless a sufficient number
of copies—about 500—be subscribed for I shall consider that
it is not wise to print
I respectfully beg that no business letters may be sent to
me, as my time is already overtaxed.
“M.A (OXON.).
Names of Committee.
*Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-sq., W.
Mrs. Fitz-gerald, 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde Park, W.
*Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s Park, N.W.
*S. T. Speer, Esq., 13, Alexandra-road, N.W.
*C. O. Massey, Esq., 96, Portland-place, W.
T, Shorter, Esq, 23, Prince of Wales’-road, N.W.
*B. Coleman, Esq., 1, Bernard-villas, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
F. W. Percival, Esq., 15, Conduit-street, Bond-street, W.,
Treasurer, to whom all Names, are to be sent in,
together with all subscriptions when payable.
Subscribers who do not wish their names to be published,
should inform Mr. Percival to that effect.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developod physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the a'rrangement is ’under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters Of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then.be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “ Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit aril the
virtues and al] the failings of humanity.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION FOR 1877 AND 1878.
& s.
Le Comte de Bullet    BO
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq     20
Martin R. Smith, Esq      20
Alexander Tod, Esq,     15
Charles Blackburn, Esq  10
Alexander Calder, Esq..,..,. ; 10
N. F. Dawe, Esq.       10
G. O. Joad, Esq      10
The Hon. A. Aksakof   10
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.,.,  jo
Sir Charles Isham, Bart    10
M.R.i.     10
James Mylne, Esq    10
X  10
B   6
C. T   5
George Sutherland, Esq    5
T. E. Partridge, Esq   5
Thomas Grant, Esq   5
The Countess of Caithness     5
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun    5
A Friend      5
B       3
Mrs. E. Dixon  2
The Rev. W. Whitear    2
Dr. Baikie       2
Miss Whitear      2
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., M.R.I   2
Mrs. Lowe       2
S. J. H.      2
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S  2
W. C. Pickersgill, Esq.  2
W.  ....„  2
G.V      2
S. T. Speer, Esq., M.D    2
W. M. Buchanan, Esq., M.D  2
A. Vacher, Esq.    2
Colonel Olcott  2
The Baroness von Vay    1
George Lee, Esq    1
G. R. Tapp, Esq..., i... :  1
Mrs. Maltby. .'. | 1
B. W. Pycock, Esq.  a   1
Mrs. Nos worthy       1
C. T. Hook, Esq.     1
Major Menars    1
A. Glendinning, Esq    1
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S    1
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.Tel.E  1
Mrs. Hennings   1
Dr. George Wyld     1
Miss Allen   1
W. P. Adshead, Esq       1
John Mould, Esq .,,, 1
J. P. Turner, Esq  1
J. T. Dodd, Esq    1
Mrs. Jeffreys       1
Miss Douglas      1
John Scott, Esq...  1
J. C. Ferguson, Esq    1
A. C. Swinton, Esq.    1
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory     1
Mrs. Tyndall     1
Lieut.-Col. Jacoby   1
John Chapman, Esq  1
G. F. Green, Esq      0 10
Mrs. E. K. Beeby ....!     0 10
R. Catling..      0 10
E. R  0 10
J. Hare, Esq  0 10
M. J.Walhouse, Esq  0 10
A Friend ’»   0 10
A Friend   0 10
T. H     0 10
Miss Pearce  0 5
J. T. M   ;.  0 5
Subscriptions to this Fund should be remitted to W. H
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. AMonthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
A
GENTLEMAN,' a powerful developing
MEDIUM, is now open to receive ladies and gentlemen
of position for private development for the various phases of
mediumship. For terms apply, in.flrst instance, by letter only,
with real name and address, to C. James, 2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—HaIf-a-
ciown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 88, Great Russell-street,
London: and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the) first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
anuual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s. 1,'Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
