Registered as A Newspaper.
SX® ®^YdSoi(0^id^i< ^dis<>fd^.
#lb^st fUettrappr x:xmtt^!£r ixrHIj S^mtwalxsm m (faxmi §nMm
THE “ SPIRITUALIST ” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Libraryi 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street, SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal ” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street, SAN FRANCISCO; 319, Kearney-street.
No. 236. (VOL X.—No. 9.) LONDON: FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence;
arontents*
Inquirers’ Seances. By C. Carter Blake, Doet. Sci. ... ... 97
Spiritualism and Insanity. In Two Farts. Fart I. By
Eugene Crowell, M.D  97
Ancient Thought and Modem Spiritualism. Fart II. By
C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci  99
Transactions of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualistsAncient Thought and Modern Spiritualism
—Modem Science versus Ancient Philosophies 100
The Literature of Spiritualism   102
Seances at Mrs. Maf-Svcs-^all Gregory's ... " 102
Poetry:—Ye Lanl ^System. A Spirituelle Songe 102
CorrespondenceAct of George the Second
—Union versu^,^ ,, -ration—Instantaneous Spirit
Poetry—Legal OH tilG' of Mediums, Trustworthy
Advice—Notice-, j. _ :aritions of Persons Living
in the Body—Mrll WIG (Dr, ^Carpenter on Spirit¬
ualism—Curious StavLo Wts about the Action of the
Divining Bod—Messag* '"V Writing Mediumship—
Shelley’s Mediumship—"V^Mtual Manifestations in
Oldham—Spirit Baps—Mr.. 'mart’s Paper—“ A Mu¬
sical Prodigy ”—A Suggestion*—Spiritualism in Glas¬
gow—Public Beading Booms—Test Seances—Cerebral
Psychology—The Eastern Question—Forgetfulness
Perhaps?—Mr. William Lawrence—Masses—The De-'
fence Committee versus the Newspapers—Freedom
Promoted by Organisation—Mr. Williams's Seances ... 103
Paragraphs ;—Modern Poetry, 102; Mrs. S, C. Hall, 102;
Spiritualism in Newcastle, 102; The National Associa¬
tion Soiree, 108; Spiritualism in Manchester, 108;
Spiritualism in Dalston, 108; The Liverpool Psycho¬
logical Society  ...  108
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PBIOE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rriHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
Jl oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
sts in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. C. F. Yarley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred B.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876); Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Bight Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;\,His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leucht^nbergj; Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S,;: Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L.O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Enin.); Mr. J. C.Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE.Purdon,M.B.(India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. O.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “Unorthodox London”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. x.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United;Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, 4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &u., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d. Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
SPIRITISM versus SPIRITUALISM. Price 6d.
J. McGeaehy, Union-street, Glasgow.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT BUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.O.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in tha same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one hook from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-memhers to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may he
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges.
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will he
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Eussell-street, W.O.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
SEANCES. '
A new series of Free Circles for Inquirers, tickets for which
can be purchased by Members at a nominal charge, are now
held weekly, on Thursdays, at 38, Great Bussell-street, at
8 p.m. precisely.
Private Seances for Members and Subscribers only are held
every Tuesday evening at 8 p.m. Tickets, 2s. 6d. each. Appli¬
cation for tickets must in all cases be made in advance.
E. KISLINGBUEY, Secretary.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
, SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY MEETINGS.
The next Fortnightly Meeting of the British National
Association of Spiritualists will be held on Monday, March
5th, at 8 p.m. Subject;—“Physical Science and Spiritual
Psychology,’’ by D. G. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.TeLE.
The meetings are free to Members and their friends.
E. KISLINGBUEY, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, LOUGHBOBOUGH-ROAD-NORTH, BRIXTON.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &o., <tc., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. Seo.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING BOOM.—Any hooks and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Boom, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
NOTICE TO SPIRITUALISTS ONLY.
R. W. EGLINTON has arranged, for another
seance at Mrs. Olive’s, 15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-
road, N.W., on Wednesday, March 14th, 1877. Tickets, 5s., of
Mrs. Olive.
BIRKBECK BANK. —Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may he had on application.
FRANCIS BAYENSOEOFT, Manager. ■*
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
President.
HENEtr D. JENCKEN, ESQ,, M.B.I.
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of. Council and • Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MBS. AMELIA COBNER.
COUNCIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. B. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Bouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Booms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
acts aflecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Tlmrsday
evenings, at 7.46 p.m. The Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special stances with professional media, lectures, discus¬
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, Members of the
Association have the privilege of attending the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
formation of circles and conduct of seances,’’ and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
* 15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and stance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
OFFICE OF “LADIES’ DEBATING CLUB,”
102, Bath Street, Glasgow.
RS. M. G. PARKER and other Ladies of
Club are prepared to Lecture on all the social reforms,
particularly the questions of human equality and temperance.
First-class pianists and vocalists. For terms apply to Mrs. M.
G. Parker.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE. —a com¬
plete set of this valuable work for sale, in 17 vols.—
1860—76. Eleven vols. bound half calf, marble edges; the
remaining six unbound. Price £5 5s. Address—S. B. Field,
13, Ampton-street, Gray’s-inn-road, W.C.
PIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red- edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
Price 2d.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDEN¬
TICAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet Is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed'
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Eussell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
FOR SALE.—Yols. of “Medium” for the
years 1872-3-4-5-6. Two numbers wanting; price 14s.
S. L. Wilks’ library, 14, Lome-terrace, Green-lanes, N.
Brighton.—The second of a series
of INSP[RATIONAL ADDRESSES will be given on
Sunday at 7 p.m. at 18, Atlingworth-street, Marine-parade
(private house). A limbed number of tickets at Is. •
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Maech 2, 1877,
PRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION QF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
, President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., I, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S .W«
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfteld, Dldsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.,19, Camhridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.lt.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C. . , m
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 98, Portland-place, W.
Bogers, E. D., Bose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin ft., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, Jambs, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-plaoe, Hyde-park, W.
Council. .
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
-Armileld, W. N., Eden-vllla, Cairns-rd., Hew Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle vue-terrace, Soutnsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.J |
Crosland, Hewton, Lynton-lodge, vanbrugh-park-road, Blaek-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 84, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys.H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivhney, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 8, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E. '
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
road, S.E.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge,Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S. W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
"Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., PosteRestan^e, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St, John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Oarlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W. '
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq,, Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Mr, J. H. Andre.
Auditors.
Mr. H. Cook, i
Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss KIslingbury, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Ills Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, "St.
■ Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de I’Empereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rasslm Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adeima Yon Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols aMaranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Yeh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W.. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2s, Leipsic, Germany."
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq,, Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Yernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes,Esq., 5,Ruede la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de I’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee.Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 80, Upper Glouoester-place,Dorset-square,
London. N.W.
Captain R. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking
'Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St.Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-sireet, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Halloek, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63,’Newlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton, Esq., 74, Navarino-road,'Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec.,H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34,2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Yisconde de Torres-Solanot,
Sociedad^Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1877.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—John Priest, Esq.
Secretary.—TAx. Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Auditors.—Mr. Charlton and Mr. Chatham.
Trustees.—Mx Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
James Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos¬
worthy, Mrs. Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Mr. Casson, Mr.
Davies, Mr. Foden, Mr. Fowler. Mr. Jones, Mr. A, Lament,
Mr. J. Lamont, Mr. Norris, Mr. Richard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measuMs, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
it—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers,
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877,
STRANGE VISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion,, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthome, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, .
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
i UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 8s.
London:—Simpkin, Mabshall & Co.
RS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“ Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book ” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “ Grannie ’’
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.O.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or die provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
. At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
'R. DE CAUX, Mesmeric Healer, and
. Medical Galvinist, attends upon patients at their own
residence, or at his rooms—35, Alfred-slreet, Bedford-square,
London, W.O.
"RS. KANE AT HOME Tuesdays, Thurs-
 . days, and Saturdays from three to five o’clock.—34
Guildford-street, RusseU-square, London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.Ci
At home dally from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, maybe had, on mo^-vate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, a* -file Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &o. Address, “f- 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade. ! 
MRS. E-pKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PlA.CE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been desired with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applieations should be made as far as possible In advance.
Manases—Mrs. A* O. Burke
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OP Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EYIDENOE ON BOTH SIDES,
WHICH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin; Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. O. O. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.O.E.; Mr. G. O. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Slade.—2jd., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI¬
CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms. 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy In the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
WANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the book and newspaper trade; by E. W.
Wallis, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E.
% uf nub tJ ^pitjii^itfont,
YoLUjviE Tejh. Kumber Nine.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MARCH 2nd, 1877,
INQUIRERS' SEANCES,
BY 0. CARTER BLAKE, BOOT. SCI.
The second of the above series was held on Thursday,
February 22nd, under the mediumship of Mr. W. Bglinton.
There were fourteen present in the circle, many of whom were
strangers.
The medium’s coat-sleeves were sewn behind him, his coat
sewn in front, and the holland pinafore placed round his
shoulders, and tied over all. A tape was passed by me in¬
side the loop formed by the connected wrists, and affixed to
the back of the chair, so that it would be impossible under
any conditions for the medium to slip his arms around his
body. The muscles of the upper arm were also tied by me
and a strange gentleman to the chair. Under these con¬
ditions, a book upon his knees was frequently opened and
shut, and afterwards taken into the cabinet. The musical
box placed on the knees of Mr. Eg] inton was played slowly
or quickly at the direction of a voice, and an object was pro¬
truded under the curtain over the springs which stopped the
tunes of the boS„ A hand was frequently shown at the
aperture of the curtain. This hand wrote on a piece of paper
held by a lady present, the words (to me unintelligible)
“ Neider dan Saxifraga ” in a legible and flowing hand¬
writing, unlike that of Mr. Eglinton. The hand appeared
destitute of wrist or arm, and it threw’a distinct shadow on to
the red curtain in a dim light. Mr. Eglinton was inspected
during the progress of the seance and afterwards, the sewing
and tying being found to be intact. Jhe gaslight through¬
out was fair. The curtains were often moved at a distance
which Mr. Eglinton could not have reached, with his out¬
stretched arm, even had it been liberated from the sewing
and tying without changing the position of his feet and legs,
which were always in full view.
The inquirers appeared to be thoroughly satisfied with the
seance*
SPIRITUALISM AND INSANITY.
IK TWO PARTS.—PART f.
BY EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
“ This form of delusion (Spiritualism) is very prevalent in America, and the
asylums contain many of its victims ; nearly ten thousand persons, having
gone insane on the subject, are confined in the public asylums of the United
States.”—Dr. L. S. Forbes Winslow, of London,
“ There is not an insane asylum from Maine to Texas which does not con¬
tain victims of Spiritualism.”—Rev. Dr, Talmage, of Brooklyn, N.Y.
The following are the facts :—
The number of asylums, or institutions for the insane, in
the United States, July 1, 1876, according to the American
Journal of Insanity, was, State institutions, 58; City and
County, 10; Incorporated Charitable, 10; Private, 9; total
87 ; and eight others were then in process of construction.
The whole number of patients in these 87 institutions at
that date, as estimated by the same authority, was 29,558.
In December last, 1876, I addressed the following ques¬
tions to each of the medical superintendents of the institu¬
tions for the insane in the United States:—
1st. The number of patients admitted to, or under treatment in your institu¬
tion during the past year; or if this has not yet been ascertained, then during
the previous year.
2nd. In how many cases was the insanity ascribed to religious excitement.
3rd. In how many to excitement caused by Spiritualism.
In answer to these questions I have received, either written
replies, or published official reports—generally both—from
66 superintendents, but of these only 58 are available for the
purposes of this exhibit, the remainder not furnishing the
information required. The information obtained from the
58 reports, and written replies, is here given in a tabulated
form, and every fact and figure bearing upon this question—
favourably or adversely—in the reports and letters received,
is here presented.
The Institutions—Where Located—The Total Numbers of Patients during
Periods Stated; and the Numbers of those whose Insanity is Ascribed Respec¬
tively to Religion and Spiritualism.
Maine Insane Hospital, Augusta, Maine  
Vermont Asylum for the Insane, Brattleboro, Vt....
N.H. Asylum for the Insane, Concord, N.H 
State Lunatic Hospital, Taunton, Mass 
"Worcester State Lunatic Hospital, Worcester, Mass
Shady Lawn Insane Asylum, Northampton, Mass....
Boston Lunatic Hospital, Boston, Mass 
State Lunatic Hospital, Northampton, Mass.   
Butler Hospital for the Insane, Providence, B.I. ...
Conn. Hospital for the Insane, Middleton, Conn. ...
Eetreat for the Insane, Hartford, Conn 
N.Y. City Asylum for the Insane, Ward’s Island ...
N.Y. City Lunatic Asylum, Blackwell’s Island 
Bloomingdale Asylum, N.Y   r 
State Lunatic Asylum, Utica, N.Y 
Monroe County Insane Asylum, Bochester, N.Y. ...
N.Y. State Asylum for Insane Criminals, Auburn...
Sanford Hall Insane Asylum, Flushing, N.Y 
King’s County Lunatic Asylum, Flatbush, N.Y. ...
State Homoeopathic Asylum, Middleton, N.Y 
Private Insane Asylum, Pleasantville, N.Y 
N.Y. State Lunatic Asylum, Trenton, N. J 
Western Penn. Hospital, Dixmont, Penn 
State Lunatic Asylum of Penn. Harrisburg, Penn...
State Hospital for the Insane, Danville, Penn 
Insane Dept, of Philad. Hospital, Philadelphia, Penn.
Friends’ Asylum for the Insane, Philadelphia, Penn.
Penn. Hospital for the Insane, Philadelphia, Penn...
Insane Asylum, College Hill, Ohio  
Western Ohio Hospital for the Insane, Dayton, Ohio
Longview Asylum, Carthage, Ohio  
Cleveland Hospital for the Insane, Newburg, Ohio...
North-Western Hospital for the Insane, Toledo, Ohio
Michigan Asylum for the Insane, Kalamazoo, Mich.
Wisconsin State Hospital for the Insane, Mendota..
Northern Hospital for the Insane, Winnebago, Wis.
Iowa Hospital for the Insane, Mount Pleasant, Iowa
Hospital for the Insane, Independence, Iowa 
St. Vincent’s Institution for the Insane, St. Louis, Mo.
St. Louis County Insane Asylum, St. Louis, Mo. ...
State Lunatic Asylum, No. 2, St. Joseph’s, Mo 
Northern Hospital for the Insane, Elgin, 111 
111. Central Hospital for the Insane, Jacksonville, 111.
Bellevue Place Asylum, Batavia, III 
111. State Hospital for the Insane, Anna. 111.... 
Ind. Hospital for the Insane, Indianapolis, Ind 
Minnesota Hospital for the Insane, St. Peter’s, Minn.
West Ken. Lunatic Asylum, Hopkinsville, Ken. ...
Alabama Insane Hospital, Tuskaloosa, Ala 
Central Lunatic Asylum, Bichmond, Va  
Eastern Lunatic Asylum, Williamsburg, Va 
Western Lunatic Asylum, Staunton, Va 
West Va. Hospital for the Insane, Western, West Va.
Insane Asylum of North Carolina, Baleigh, N.C. ...
Maryland Hospital for the Insane, Baltimore, Md....
Texas State Lunatic Asylum, Austin, Texas 
Nebraska Hospital for the Insane, Lincoln, Neb. ...
Insane Asylum of California, Stockton, Cal 
1875-6
1875-6
1876
1876
1876
1876
1876
1876
1876
1875
1875
1875
1875
1875
1875
1876
1876
1876
1876
1875-6
1876
1876
1875
1875
1873- 6
1876
1876
1876
1876
1875
1876
1876
1876
1876
1876
1876
1874- ,
1874-5
1874-
1870-
1876
1875-
1875-6
1876
1876
1876
1876
1876
1876
1871- 6
1876
1876
1876
1874-6
1876
1876
1876
1876
913
rj ® r
fcS-
374
222
268
583
829
23
248
, 470
198
616
233
401
412
287
1,004
250
88
48
751
281
6
487
i70
167
620
383
122
268
95
826
767
763
158
850
181
530
1,016
464
427
721
126
755
995
50
146
489
253
341
95
537
377
423
408
115
168
109
133
1,201
23,328
!*s
8w-
lz;rt
7
10
20
5
13
8
8
6
17
7
28
20
18
13*
2
8
16
6
49
4
i’i
ii
i
8
9
36
412
S 6
? a
59
From the above tables it will be seen that of 23,328
insane persons now, or recently, in 58 institutions, 412 are
reported insane from religious excitement, and 59 from
excitement caused by Spiritualism.
Assuming that in December last there were 30,000 in¬
sane persons in the various institutions in the United States
(an increase of about 450 since July, 1876), according to
the above figures, there should be of this entire number 530
insane from religious excitement, and 76 from Spiritualism;
and whether we regard the relative numbers in the above
table, or as estimated in all the institutions in the country,
we find there are seven insane from religious excitement for
every one insane from Spiritualism. It will also be seen
that while there are 87 asylums there are only 76 insane
Spiritualists within their walls—not one to each institution.
The following table presents the statistics of this subject,
for long terms of years, of thirteen institutions, as taken
from their official reports, the other reports being deficient
in like information :—
98
THE SPIRITUALIST,
March 2, 1877,
Worcester State Lunatic Hospital, Worcester, Mass,
Conn. Hospital for the Insane, Middletown, Conn...
State Lunatic Asylum, Utica, N.Y    
Penn, Hospital for the Insane,Philadelphia, Penn...
Western Penn. Hospital, Dixmont, Penn 
State Lunatic Asylum of Penn., Harrisburg, Penn.
Longview Asylum, Carthage, Ohio  
Western Ohio Hospital for the Insane, Dayton, Ohio
Iowa Hospital for the Insane, Mount Pleasant, Iowa
Eastern Lunatic Asylum, Williamsburg, Ya 
Alabama Insane Hospital, Tuskaloosa, Ala 
Ind. Hospital for the Insane, Indianapolis, Ind 
Minnesota Hospital for the Insane, St. Peter’s, Minn.
No. of
Years,
44
9
32
35
19
25
17
20
16
8
15
28
10
<t!H
•2P®
'3 3
MS
|1
•£h
11,302
1,272
11,831
7,167
2,981
3,988
3,579
3,818
3,028
554
1,205
6,701
1,449
885
24
247
212
70
10
134
196
112
20
54
459
71
58,875
1,994 229
65
32
"7
4
12
12
12
"i.
82
2
Here we have records of 58,875 patients, of which number
the insanity of 1,994 is ascribed to religious excitement,
and that of 229 to the excitement of Spiritualism. Ac¬
cording to these figures, 30,000 of these patients (the
present number of inmates of our asylums) would show
1,016 insane from religion, and 117 from Spiritualism, and
the relative numbers of those whose insanity is ascribed
respectively to the excitement of religion and Spiritualism
in former years, and at the present time, appear as fol¬
lows :—
In 30,000 patients in former years, from religion, 1,010, from Spiritualism, 117.
„ ■ „ at present time, „ ,, 530, „ ,, 76.
Showing a diminished number of cases from both religion
and Spiritualism at the present time.
An important fact should here be noticed, which is, that
as the knowledge of Spiritualism has extended, and the
number of its adherents has increased, the records show,
not only a comparatively, but an absolutely less number of
cases in which Spiritualism is assigned as the exciting
cause of insanity, and it is a question whether the greater
comparative decrease in the number of cases ascribed to
religious excitement may not justly be attributed, at least
in a great degree, to the influence of Spiritualism in dis¬
seminating more correct, rational, and, consequently, less
revolting ideas of the nature and extent of future punish¬
ment. .
Seventy-six insane from Spiritualism at the present time,
out of a total of 30,000 inmates of our asylums, are within
a fraction of one in 395, and one quarter of one per cent.
of the whole number in the asylums, instead of 33 l-3rd
per cent., as asserted by Dr. Forbes Winslow.
In 42 of the published reports of institutions for the
insane, which have come to hand, there are tables showing
the previous occupations of the patients admitted, or treated,
within one or more years, and from these I find that out of
a total of 32,313 male patients, 215 are set down as clergy¬
men, while in same reports the total number of male and
female Spiritualists is only 45. Insane clergymen are here
in the proportion of 1 to every 150 inmates, while the pro¬
portion of insane Spiritualists is only 1 to every 711.
If we estimate the number of Spiritualists in the United
States as low as 2,000,000—which I believe to be less than
their actual number—we are entitled to a representation in
the lunatic asylums of 1,333, while the number actually
there, according to official reports, is only 76. Thus we are
taxed for the support of these institutions without fair re¬
presentation, but as we are taught by our religion to exercise
charity towards all men, we are willing that’ clergymen, and
the members of their congregations shall have the lion’s j
share of the advantages these institutions afford. Their j
needs are greater than ours.
Dr. M. Reanney, superintendent of the Iowa Hospital for
the Insane, in which in 1874-75 more than 1,000 patients
were treated, says, in his letter to me, that there is not at j
the present time one Spiritualist under his care.
According to the report of the Worcester State Lunatic j
Hospital, Massachusetts, in which in 1876 829 patients
were treated, no Spiritualist has been a patient in the in- j
stitution during the last three years.
Dr. John Curwen, superintendent of the State Lunatic 1
Asylum at Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, in which during the !
past twenty-five years 3,988 patients have been admitted, |
j says, in his letter to me, that a we have not had for a long
j term of years any cases caused by Spiritualism.”
In the State Lunatic Asylum at Utica, Hew York, 11,831
| patients were admitted during the past thirty-two years, the
j insanity of 32 of them being ascribed to Spiritualism, but
I all these were admitted within the period of five years from
1849, when Spiritualism was in its infancy, and compara-
| tively little understood, and since 1853, or for twenty-three
| years, not a patient has been admitted in whose case Spirit¬
ualism was assigned as the exciting cause of the insanity.
Dr. B. A. Wright, Superintendent of the North-Western
Hospital for the Insane, at Toledo, Ohio, writes me :—u The
| cause of the mental derangement of eight patients (in 1876)
| was religious excitement. Many more act as though re-
| ligious excitement had been the cause of their insanity, but
this is not so stated in the committing papers.
Dr. J. B. Cooker, now, or recently, City Physician of New
Orleans, in a letter to the Rev. Dr. Watson, of Memphis,
says :—“ I have been in charge of the lunatic asylum of the
parish of New Orleans some seven years, and out of a large
number that have been admitted and discharged in that time
have never had one case of insanity on account of Spiritualism,
but several cases of insanity of other forms of religious be¬
lief.”
The following is an extract from a letter received from
Dr. C. H. Nichols, Superintendent of the Grovernment
Hospital for the insane, at Washington, D.C., in which 931
patients were treated in 1876 :—
“ I see a paragraph, attributed to Dr. Forbes Winslow, is
going the rounds of the newspapers, stating that there are
ten thousand lunatics in the United States, who were made
insane by Spiritualism. My observation leads me to sup¬
pose that there may be one per cent, of truth in that state¬
ment.”
The doctor’s estimate is very nearly correct. Instead of
there being one per cent, of truth in the wild assertion of
Dr. Forbes Winslow, there are only three-fourths of one per
cent.
Dr. J. W. Ward, superintendent of the New Jersey State
Lunatic Asylum, at Trenton, writes:—“ We have eight cases
said to have resulted from Spiritualism, but whether
Spiritualism was the cause, or the result, of insanity in these
cases it is difficult to tell. Friends in giving histories of
eases are very prone to mistake hallucinations, etc., ex¬
pressed after insanity is established, as the cause of the
malady itself.”
Dr. D. R. Burrell, resident physician of the Brigham Hall
Asylum, at Canandaigua, N..Y., says : te Statistics in regard
to religious excitement and Spiritualism as causes of in¬
sanity, are of little account at present. Friends often speak
of these as causes, when they are merely results^ as you
learn upon obtaining, after weeks or months, a fuller history
of the cases. Many of the so-called ‘ religious ’ cases I
have met did not think of religion, or become religious until
after they were touched with insanity. Cannot the same
be said of Spiritualism as a cause ? ”
Dr. H. R. Stiles, superintendent of the State Homoeo¬
pathic Asylum for the Insane, at Middletown, N.Y., writes :
“ All of us have a touch of supernaturalism in our make
up. Is it surprising then, that when bodily and mental
disease, conjoined, have slackened the rein which common
sense (the will of our daily lives) holds upon this lingering
relic of supernaturalism, the confused mind, not compre¬
hending its changed relations with the outer world—seeing
and hearing many things which seem strange, and (in its
then state) fearful, and foreboding, naturally revives what
it has heard of Spiritual influences, and the patient rants
and raves about, and attributes his troubles to Spiritualism.
But these delusions generally appear after the insanity is
recognised, so I am inclined to acquit religion and Spirit¬
ualism of this blame to a large extent. At least my own
personal experience does not induce me to charge it upon
them.”
Dr. B. D. Eastman, superintendent of the State Lunatic
Hospital, at Worcester, Mass., in his report for 1873, says,
of the causes of insanity assigned by the friends of patients,
as stated in the tables in the published reports, that, “ tables
of this character are very unsatisfactory. The friends of
Maech 2, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
99
patients, from whom the statements of causes usually come,
sometimes purposely practise deception, and often display
great ignorance, by assigning as a cause some comparatively
trivial circumstances attendant upon the beginning of in¬
sanity, or some symptom of the already fixed malady.”
If can readily be understood how appropriately these re¬
marks must apply to persons who exhibit insane symptoms,
and who previously have been more or less interested in
Spiritualism. Its unpopularity, together with the impres¬
sion so prevalent that Spiritualists must necessarily be to
some extent unbalanced in mind, render it more easy and
natural to attribute the mental aberration to this cause than
to any other, and thus, doubtless, a certain proportion of the
small number of inmates of our asylums, upon whose war¬
rants of committal Spiritualism is inscribed as the exciting
cause, are in no degree indebted to their belief for the cause
of their affliction.
Dr. John P. Gray, editor of the American Journal of
Insanity) says in his report: (S Every great religious move-
men, indeed, from John Knox and John Wesley to Moody
and Sankey, has been accompanied with its percentage of
insanity; but that only shows that there is in every com¬
munity, at any given period, a certain amount of constitu¬
tional or incidental morbidity, ready to be developed into
insanity by every suitable occasion, and religious excitement
only stands prominent among the number of moral in¬
fluences.”
These remarks also apply to Spiritualism, though not to
the same extent.
Dr. J. Ray, the eminent authority in medical jurisprudence,
and who has made a special study of insanity, remarks in
the American Journal of Insanity for October, 1867 : u It is
to be regretted that the prevalent tendency is to ignore
tliem (the facts of Spiritualism) entirely, rather than to
make them a subject of scientific investigation. It is sur¬
prising that physicians, especially with such well-recognised
affections before them as catalepsy, somnambulism, ecstasy,
and double consciousness should jump to the conclusion that
all the facts of Spiritualism and animal magnetism are
utterly anomalous and impossible.”
Contrast these wise and cautious words of one of the
most experienced specialists in this country with the un¬
supported assertions and blind generalisations of Dr. Forbes
Winslow and Rev. Dr. Talmage.
Brooklyn, New York, February, 1877.
ANCIENT THOUGHT AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
Past II.
BY C. CARTER BLAKE, DOC. SCI.
Since I read the first part of this paper, the discussion
has comprised many interesting questions, to some of which
1 have tried to reply in my verbal remarks.
Let me, in passing, just notice the good-humoured criti¬
cism which my friend, Mr. H. G. Atkinson, has given in
the number of The Spiritualist for January 26th. When
I spoke of “ the universal solvency of time,” I merely re¬
ferred to time not as an entity, but as an edax rerum. How
many theories time has devoured and cast into what Pro¬
fessor Owen calls <f the limbo of all hasty blunders,” the
student of mental philosophy alone knows, and it will be
my object by-and-by to gauge whether the modern theories
will hold water better than those of our ancestors.
The reference to “ materialists ” had no personal bearing
towards Mr. Atkinson, whose support I wish I had, and to
whom we all owe gratitude for his kind reception of our
friend Dr. Slade at Boulogne. In fact, his most unjust
assailant could hardly call him a materialist.
Leaving, therefore, this personal matter, I now proceed
to inquire what service was rendered by the New Academic
School to elucidate some of those phenomena which we term
“ spiritual.”
The doctrine of acatalepsy recalls to us the stoical doc¬
trine of catalepsy or apprehension, to which it is the ante-
thesis. The cataleptic phantasm was the true perception
according to the Stoics, and according to the Academicians
all perceptions were acataleptic—«.<?., bore no conformity to
the objects perceived, or, if they did bear any conformity
thereto, it would never be known.
Arcesil&us saw the weak point of the stoical argument.
Zeus pretended that there was a criterium which decided
between science and opinion, which decided between true
and false perceptions, and this was the assent which the
mind gave to the truth of certain perceptions ; in other
words, common sense was the criterium. “ But,” said
Arcesilaus, “ what is the difference between the assent of
a wise man and the assent of a madman ? There is no dif¬
ference but in name.” He felt that the criterium of the
Stoics was itself in need of a criterium.
Chrysippus the Stoic combated Arcesilaus, and was in
turn combated by Oarneades. The great question then
pending was this :—
What criterium is there of the truth of our knowledge ?
The criterium must reside either in reason, conception, or
sensation. It cannot reside in reason, because reason itself
is not independent of the other two: it operates upon the
material furnished by them and is dependent upon them.
Our knowledge is derived from the senses, and every object
presented to the mind must, consequently, have been origi¬
nally presented to the senses: on their accuracy the mind
must depend.
Reason cannot, therefore, contain within itself the desired
criterium. Nor can conception; for the same arguments
apply to it. Nor can the criterium reside in sense; because,
as all admit, the senses are deceptive, and there is no per¬
ception which cannot be false.
For what is perception ?
, Our senses only inform us of the presence of an object in
so far as they are affected by it. But what is this ? Is it
not who are affected—we who are modified? "Yes; and
this modification reveals both itself and the object which
causes it. Like light, which, in showing itself, shows also
the objects upon which it is thrown. Like light also in
this, that it shows objects in its own colours.
Perception is a modification of the soul. The whole
problem now to solve is this :—Does every modification
of the soul exactly correspond with the external object
which causes that modification.
This is the problem presented by the Academicians. They
answered, but they did not solve it. They left to their
adversaries the task of proving the correspondence between
the object and subject. And this was proven by the
Alexandrians.
The great and predominant idea of the philosophy of
Plotinus was this identity. The identity of subject and
object—of the thought with the thing thought of—is the
only possible ground of knowledge. This position, which
some will recognise as the fundamental position of modern
German speculation, is so removed from all ordinary corrup¬
tions that we must digress awhile, in order to explain it.
Neo-Platonism is a blank without it.
Knowledge and Being are identical; to know more is to
be more. We do not of course maintain the absurd pro¬
position that to know a horse is to be that horse; but we
maintain that all we know of that horse is only what we
know of the changes in ourselves occasioned by some ex¬
ternal cause, and, identifying our internal change with that
external cause, we call it a horse. Here knowledge and
being are identical: we really know nothing of the external
cause (horse), we only know our own state of being; and to
say, therefore, that “ in our knowledge of the horse we are
the horse ” is only saying, in unusual language, that our
knowledge is a state of our being, and nothing more. The
cause must remain unknowp, because knowledge is effect,
not cause.
An apple is presented-to you’: you see it, feel it, taste it,
smell it, and are said to know it. What is this knowledge ?
Simply a consciousness of the various ways in which the
apple affects you. You are blind, and cannot see it; there
is one quality less which it possessed, ?.<?., one mode less in
which it is possible for you to be affected. You are without
the nerves of smell and taste : there are two other deficiencies
in your knowledge of the apple. So that, by taking away
your senses, we take away from the apple each of its
qualities; in other words, we take away the means of your
being affected. Your knowledge of the apple is reduced to
nothing. In a similar way, by endowing you with more
senses, we increase the qualities of the apple; we increase
100
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 2, 1877.
your knowledge by enlarging your being. Thus are know¬
ledge and being identical; knowledge is a state of being
knowing.
“ If,” said Plotinus, <( knowledge is the same as the thing
known, the Finite, as Finite, never can know the Infinite,
because it cannot 6e the Infinite. To attempt, therefore, to
know the Infinite by Reason is futile; it can only be known
in immediate presence, Trapovcna. The faculty by which the
mind divests itself of its personality is Ecstasy. In this
Ecstasy the soul becomes loosened from a material prison,
separated from individual consciousness, and becomes
absorbed in the Infinite Intelligence from which it emanated.
In this Ecstasy it contemplates real existence; it identifies
itself with that which it contemplates.”
And the means by which this ecstatic state is reached are
described by Plotinus in language of the most beautiful
character, which I do not scruple to quote: God our
Father, pitying us, has made the mortal bonds which attach
the soul to the body, and from which we suffer, fragile and
delicate, and in his goodness he gives us certain intervals of
respite. u Zevs 8e Trarrjp iXerjcra^ 7rovovp,eva<i dvrjra avrwv to,
8ecrp,a ttolcov 'irepu a irovowrai, SiBojaiv avairavXa^ ev xpovois”
(Plotinus). Such philosophy has a real consolatory and
moral influence as indicating the connection of the soul with
the body, and has the same beautiful ring as the words of
Bernard of Cluny.
“ Patria luminis, inscia turbinis, Insda litis,
Give replebitur, amplifloabitur, Israelitis.”
The conditions under which a real beatific vision may be
seen are such as reduce the mere body to its lowest physical
status. Who, at present, can define the conditions of ecstasy
more exactly than did Plotiflus ?
And this is the application. We feel the grasp of a
“ spirit hand,” but such sensation, true though it is of itself,
is no proof of the existence of the “ spirit” any more than
it is of our own existence. All that it proves is that certain
lines of force which originate from within us are met by
other lines of force which originate from somewhere else.
The reality of the object can be no more surely predicated
than the reality of the subject. An appeal to fallible sensa¬
tion, in itself dXo7o?, will bring us down to the level of too
many scientific men in this miserable nineteenth century of
fatuity. However, the application of the Nominalist doctrines
of the Middle Ages will convince our intellect of the truth
of what our senses have observed, but with this enormous
subject I shall deal in a future paper.
TRANSACTIONS OF THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The last fortnightly meeting of the National Society of Spiritualists
was held on Monday, 19th Feb., at 38, Great Russell-street, London,
Mr. Desmond G. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.TeLE., in the chair.
ANCIENT THOUGHT AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
As the discussion was an adjourned one on f‘ Ancient Thought and
Modern Spiritualism,’’ Mr. Fitz-Gerald said he would call on Mr.
Stainton-Moses, who had been the chief speaker on the last occasion, to
give a summary of his arguments.
Mr. Stainton-Moses, M.A., then said: I have no desire to maintain
any other position than these:—(1) The ancients knew much respecting
the occult phenomena of spirit, which we might study with advantage.
(2) The method of the ancients is one which we might adopt with
advantage, in combination with our own. (3) The blots in our own
modern method might be advantageously remedied by study of what the
ancients knew and practised. 1. The writings of the school of Neo-
Platonists, of the Hermetic philosophers, of such men as lamblichus
and Cornelius Agrippa contain hints and suggestions which repay
perusal. 2. The method of the ancients was esoteric, that of the
moderns exoteric. I believe in a combination of the two. Popular
Spiritualism is not scientific; it does very little in the way of scientific
verification. Moreover, exoteric Spiritualism is, to a large extent, devoted
to presumed communion with personal friends, or to the gratification of
curiosity, or the mere evolution of marvels. It is only very lately that
scientific research has dealt with the phenomena of Spiritualism, and
the great danger is that scientists trust to the methods found useful in
physical science, but which are worthless in dealing with spirit. A
familiar instance is the tying of a medium with ropes in a dark closet
for the purpose of securing him while form manifestations are in process.
Such method is illusory, for the instantaneous release of a. medium from
bonds is matter of common knowledge. The attention of experimenters
should be devoted to the abolition of cabinets, and such tests
as are suitable only to the researches of the physicist. Such
experiments may well form a subsidiary branch of investigation.
The truly esoteric science of Spiritualism is very rare, and not more
rare than valuable. To it we must look for the origination of knowledge
which may be developed exoterically. It flourished far more with the
ancients; in fact, exoteric Spiritualism was unknown among them.
3. Plain blots which might be remedied by knowledge such as the
ancients possessed, (a) We proceed too much on the lines of the
physicist; our tests are crude and often illusory; we know too little of
the Protean power of spirit. Here the ancients were far ahead of us,
and can teach us much, (b) We have not introduced any certainty
into the conditions—a necessary pre-requisite for true scientific experi¬
ment. This is largely owing to the fact that our circles are constructed
mi no principle, and are not kept free from disturbance and change.
The principle of the lodge remedied this, (c) We have not even
mastered the elementary truths which the ancients knew and Acted on,
e.ff., the isolation of mediums, (d) We have been so occupied with
wonder hunting that we have hardly tabulated the phenomena or pro¬
pounded one theory to account for the production of the simplest of
them. Raps are certainly not made in all cases by a hand, (e) We
have never faced the question, What is the intelligence ? This is the
great blot, the most frequent source of error, and here we might learn
with advantage from the ancients. There is the strongest disinclination
among Spiritualists to admit the possibility of the truth of occultism.
In this respect they are as hard to convince as is the outer world of
Spiritualism. Spiritualists start with a fallacy, viz., that all phenomena
are caused by the action of departed human spirits; they have not
looked into the powers of the incarnate human spirit; they do not know
the extent to which spirit acts, how far it reaches, what it underlies.
The truth is neither with Occultist nor Spiritualist exclusively. Spirit¬
ualist says—All is done by human spirits ; Occultist—All, or nearly all,
by elementaries. The truth is, spirit acts in the widest sense. For
these reasons, to exclude others which are obvious or comparatively
unimportant, I desiderate a study of ancient writers, and an adaptation
of ancient knowledge and ancient experimental method to the more
exact processes of modern thought. The ancients knew nothing of our
exact scientific method of investigation. We know almost nothing of
their research, which was in many respects far superior to ours. In the
union of the two methods, the purging away of ancient error, and of
modern fallacy, and the widening and deepening of our spiritual per¬
ceptions while we retain all the exactness of our scientific method of
experiment, lies the via media we require.
MODERN SCIENCE Versus ANCIENT PHILOSOPHIES.
The Chairman: Dr. Blake, in his paper on “ Ancient Thought and
Modern Spiritualism,” said that “ modern Spiritualists may be ranged
between the two standpoints of the Epicurean and the Socratic philo¬
sophies.” By this he would be understood to mean that the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism must be ascribed either to “ forces ”
emanating from the body of the mediums, or to the action of an
independent agent, viz., a spirit. And he concluded his very suggestive
remarks by the statements that “ The nineteenth century is not that
which has observed the genesis of new, nor the completion of old,
methods of thought,” and that “If our speculations have any value
they must be pursued in relation to the thoughts of the great men who
have preceded us in the world’s life history, and if not they should be
left to the universal solvency of time, undisgraced by the approbation
of modern materialists.” In regard to the first point, if we were
confined to the two systems of philosophy mentioned, I should opine,
with Mrs. Hallock, that it is possible to be both a Socratean and an
Epicurean, or, rather, that Spiritualists, having to account on the one
hand for the mechanical energy and, on the other, for the intelligence
involved in the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, are bound, in
defiance of the ancient schools of thought, to avail themselves of the
privilege of eclecticism, and thus to follow in the wake of Bacon,
Descartes, Hegel, and Victor Cousin. But I do not intend to insist upon
this point, for, in regard to the statements last quoted, I will venture to
take up the gauntlet thrown down by Dr. Blake to the modern inductive
or scientific school of thought, and to uphold the major proposition that
—In view of the great discoveries of modern science, the perfection of
its methods, and the previously unknown degree of accuracy in its
results, a new science, such as Spiritualism or Spiritual Psychology,
should be pursued, in accordance with the lines of thought which have
proved so fertile in the domain of physics, rather than in relation to the
views and notions of any ancient authorities. In taking up this position,
I do not intend to fall into the error of supposing that because modem
science has made such great progress in one direction it possesses any
present competence, any right to judge ex cathedrd, in regard to facts
which it has not yet investigated—in the vast and almost unexplored
fields of human inquiry, of which the existence at least has been
realised by all large-minded thinkers of old as well as of modern times.
As I have said elsewhere, “ Grand though it be, modem science is not
even semi-science—it is tertia pars scientice—the smallest third of the
science to which we may look forward.” But since all truths are
related, I hope to be able to show that, in the discovery of great physical
truths, modem science may have laid a secure basis of universally-
applicable principle, upon which, when we have postulated the fact of
the tripartite nature of man, we may raise the edifice of Spiritual
Psychology. This much, indirectly and inadvertently, modern science
may have done for Spiritualism: history will record as a disgrace, from
which a few only of its votaries, such as Crookes and Varley, can be
exempted, that, in a new region of experimental fact, it has done no
more. Still, modem science, though it has generally tabooed all investi¬
gation in this direction, has done something even for Spiritualism. One
school at least of those who have carefully examined into this matter
are in truth the representatives of modern science, and will undoubtedly
be claimed and absorbed by it when the fact is perceived that they have
acted in the true scientific spirit, whilst most of the accepted leaders of
science have, not for the first time, been false to their own accepted
axioms and to the teachings forced upon them by every great discovery
March 2, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
101
that they at first ignored. No doubt our present knowledge of Spirit- i (j
ualism is very imperfect; but it seems to me that, in a few years, we i>j
have attained more than was ever mastered by the ancients in the course in
of centuries. This, I think, would be seen if our results and theirs u
were tabulated together. And the character of our results, generally, i; j
the accuracy with which they can be defined and stated, would at least Uj
exhibit a decided superiority. Without knowing it, sometimes, we owe nj
much to the “ mental atmosphere ” which science has created around us. j;i
I know several investigators whose habits of mind are essentially scien- j(!
tific, and who yet take every opportunity of depreciating or ignoring the j j i
results of scientific method. I have admitted that the knowledge which I) j
now constitutes modern science is limited in breadth and scope—that i (|
real science is, in fact, in its infancy. Its distinguishing characteristic, m
I hold, is its accuracy. It has been stated that “ each new theory of |)|
science is rejected by the next generation, until the conflict of beliefs has j (j
itself become one of the most marked phenomena of our age.” But at nj
the same time it is admitted that modern science deals very little in j) j
theories; its theories, since the time of Newton, have mostly been built U
up of solid verifiable facts connected here and there by links of j)j
hypothesis which can be loosened, shifted, or strengthened as our appre- j) j
ciation of the facts grows more perfect. As a matter of fact, these |(i
links are every day being extended, but do not very often require to be Jjl
shifted or altered. Modern science is not very old, and I am not very |)|
young, yet the theory I learned in my boyhood will generally serve me m
now, and in most cases bids fair to hold good to the end of time. True, ) j
the chemical formula for water used to be HO, it is now HaO; but then J)
in the latter case O signified 16 parts by weight of oxygen to two parts i i
of hydrogen, whilst in the former case 0 represents eight parts of oxygen j) i
to one of hydrogen. Here is an example of a theory in exact science (i
that was rejected by the next generation. The formula HO is still \\\
correct according to the equivalent notation; though the expression H20 ) j
is to be preferred, since it almost certainly expresses the relative weight !(j
of the atoms of hydrogen and oxygen, as well as their equivalent m
weights. Applied to the hypotheses of the ancient poets and philo- !)j
sophers (they really had no theories properly so-called), the statement I j j
have quoted would be a tolerably correct expression of fact. Homer j) I
and Hesiod represented the earth as a disc, surrounded on all sides by j) i
a winding river they called Ocean; above this the sky was arched like | (i
a vast dome, and was supported by two massive pillars, resting on the m
shoulders of the god Atlas. In this dome, or firmament, the stars |)j
were fixed (probably by means of some adhesive material!). They m
were extinguished at sunrise and rekindled at sunset. Not very dis- lij
similar was the idea entertained by Moses, who held, however, that j)|
there was water above the firmament, as well as below the earth; the j (
former being fitted with windows, and the latter with fountains, through j
which the water could be admitted d discretion. Thales, the chief of the |)
Ionian school of philosophy, held that the earth floated on a “ humid j (
element,” and, six centuries later, Seneca reproduced the hypothesis of j
the Greek philosopher. Diodorus countenanced the notion of the Chal- (
deans that the earth was a hollow vessel, like the half of an egg-shell with \
its concave side uppermost; and Heraclitus, of Ephesus, introduced this )
doctrine into Greece. Anaximander, a great authority in the Ionian (
school, represented the earth as a cylinder, of which the upper face (
alone was inhabited. This hypothesis was supported by details and j)
measurements, the cylinder being one-third of its diameter in height, (
and floating freely in the midst of the celestial vault. This was perhaps (
the reason why it was adopted by the “ good old Greek philosophers,” j
Leucippus and Democritus—-to whose “ Atomic School ” we Spiritualists j (
have the option of belonging—as well as by Heraclitus and Anaxagoras, n
Anaximenes and Zenophanes, without pronouncing dogmatically on the )
form of the earth, represented it as resting—the one upon compressed i t
air, the other upon roots which were prolonged ad infinitum. At a j
later period Plato gave to the earth the form of a cube. Plutarch, with j)
a cutting sarcasm which has frequently been similarly employed against j
Spiritualism, says that “Philosophers, rather than renounce a favourite j
hypothesis, would make human beings crawl on the lower face of the 1
earth like worms or lizards.” Lactantius, a Christian apologist of the (
third century, says, in his work De Falsd Sapientid, “ Can there be |
anything more absurd than a belief in the existence of Antipodes, of )
inhabitants with their feet opposite to our feet, of people who walk with
their feet in the air, and their heads on the ground 1 that there is a part j)
of the world where everything is inverted, where trees throw out their |)
branches from top to bottom, while it rains and hails and snows from j \
bottom to top ? ” And Saint Augustine declared such a belief incom- J
patible with the dogmas of the faith; for to admit the existence of in¬
habited lands on the opposite hemisphere, would be to admit the existence j
of peoples not descended from Adam, since it would have been impos- )
sible for him to traverse the ocean lying between Asia and the Antipodes, j)
To this Columbus replied by discovering the New World. The main j
characteristic of the knowledge possessed by the ancients appears to me ] j
to be its inaccuracy, its sublime independence even of readily observable | j
facts, the blending together of fact and fancy, or the gratuitous substi- j
tution of fancy for fact. Some few amongst them, I freely admit, |)
arrived at a knowledge of the great truths which are now in some degree j
susceptible of direct demonstration, and which appear to have been j
shadowed forth with more or less distinctness to every earnest spirit who I
has learned to commune with Nature, and to aspire to Nature’s God. N
They cultivated the intuitions which are the inheritance of all such n
spirits; they laid themselves open to spiritual influences, and rose above |)
the narrow dogmas, finite philosophies and vulgar creeds of their time |(
to gaze with the poet’s eye down the dim yet glorious vistas of infinite j
possibilities. Of Socrates I would speak with uncovered head, j)
and with all the respect due to the foremost leaders of mankind |i
in the paths of truth, justice, goodness, duty, loved for their j
own sake, and for the sake of our brother man. Each j(
one of us has from him a precious legacy — the precept j(
“ That men should think for themselves, and accept nothing as true u
that contradicts the moral and intellectual principles of their being.”
He was a man who regarded the great object of philosophy to be “ the
attainment of correct ideas respecting man’s moral and religious obliga¬
tions, and the perfection of his nature as a rational being.” And he
was a man who recognised what Carlyle has termed the “ eternal duty
of silence ” in relation to things about which we have no true know¬
ledge—a man who could say the hard word nescio, whilst guarding
himself and others from the “ double ignorance ” that mistakes itself,
and is so often mistaken, for learning or wisdom. To him, to Plato,
and to some others amongst the ancients, the existence of an immortal
and immaterial principle constituting the man, as distinguished from
his temporary integuments, was as much a fact as though it were
susceptible of mathematical demonstration. But these few are the
exceptions, and even these were profoundly ignorant of every unerring
law, of any accurate fact, in relation to the immensities which were
unveiled to them. Their mistake, I think, was a contempt for details,
for those minor secrets of nature which are to be wrested from her only
by experiment, continued with patient, humble and laborious endeavour.
The great majority of the ancient philosophical writers, so far as I
know them, appear to me as mere empirics, dealing in learned empti¬
ness, and trading, to an almost incredible extent, upon the credulity,
ignorance, and what Dr. Carpenter would term the “gullibility” of
mankind. Dr. Blake has defended Aristotle from the charge of being
ignorant of the fact that the mole has eyes. I will not insist upon this
point; but I have not quite done with the mole. I will give you some
information respecting it, on the learned authority of Pliny. He says,
in his Natural History—“ Since this animal has been doomed to a per¬
petual blindness, and lives interred beneath the surface of the earth,
like the dead, he possesses, by way of compensation, some extraordinary
qualities. His subterranean existence renders him of all animals the
most capable of religion (nullum religionis capacius animal). To
acquire the gift of second sight, you must eat the heart of a mole while
still beating, and freshly plucked from the animal’s body. (Was any
more atrocious suggestion ever made by the lowest of obsessing spirits ?)
To cure tooth-ache suspend to your neck the tooth of a live mole.
(Another horrible suggestion in the way of dentistry.) Lymphatic
people will gain in strength if sprinkled with a mole’s blood. The
ashes of a mole are a sovereign remedy for scrofula; some recommend
for this disease the animal’s liver, some the right foot (the left would
not be equally efficacious!), and others the head. The earth of mole¬
hills, fashioned into pastilles, and preserved in a tin box, is an excellent
cure for all kinds of tumours, and especially for abscesses on the neck.”
In all this, I would ask, is there one single vestige of truth? Is there
not, rather, evidence that such an authority could only by accident
state any truth ? And would any one of such statements be possible
on the part of any modern authority in philosophy or science ?
Dr. Carter Blake then read the second portion of his paper, which is
printed upon another page.
Mr. A. H. Louis said that he doubted whether the line of physical
science is that on which spiritual manifestations can be studied. He
was of opinion that the suggestions made by Mr. Moses were sound, and
that there should be a distinction of method, as there is a distinction of
object. The absolute transcendence of conditions marked the attitude
of Spiritualism in relation to physical science. With regard to the
present condition of science, he thought that investigators into
transcendent phenomena had so much to do in protecting themselves
from the foolishness of their contemporaries, as to have no energy left
to criticise that of ancient thinkers. Mr. Fitz-Gerald had said that
modern science was wholly on the ground of fact, but Mr. Louis feared
he had come to a different conclusion. Scientific men were to his mind
in the greater majority on the ground of hypothesis, and persistently set
aside all personal experience not in conformity with their own.
Spiritualistic inquiry should therefore be pursued in a view of indiffer¬
ence to their dicta. As to the method of inquiry, he thought a distinct
line of demarcation should be drawn, and that we should proceed on
esoteric methods. Organic phenomena did not belong to the region of
the ponderable, fixed, and mechanical; unlike physics, modern
spiritualistic phenomena were organic, moral, and not producible to
order; therefore the standard of the unalterable could not be applied to
them. Spiritualism could not be entered on the ground of formula and
controversy, and its integrity, and health, and future progress depended
entirely on the right appreciation of these truths.
Dr. Carter Blake remarked that, even granted that the ancients had
often committed verbal errors in trifling matters of fact, such were on
the whole not greater than the constant tendency to originate error by
the moderns. He would not follow Mr. Fitz-Gerald through physics or
chemistry, but would prefer to select examples from zoology, anthro¬
pology, geology, and anatomy. Some years ago there was a lecture
delivered on the “ Ethnology of the British People.” The lecturer
founded an argument on an alleged fact that the Siluri were a race of
Britons who, under Caraotacus, inhabited South Wales. The statement
might have been considered valueless by those who had heard of the
Silures; and as Welshmen and sturgeons were not the same, and as
the singular of Siluri might have been Silurus, he was thankful that
the author of this extraordinary statement had declared that he felt
no interest in Spiritualism. The same author, in a paper on
Belemnoziphius, spoke of the vomer as an outside bone of the skull.
Such statements were not mere incautious slips, such as any author
might have easily made without discredit, but were employed as the
groundwork on which a superstructure of argument was based—a
theory brought forward; and the poor scholar who ventured to question
the infallibility of the modern trader on the ignorance, or, as Dr. Car¬
penter called it, the “ gullibility,” of the masses, had to bow in silent
acquiescence. He might multiply similar instances by the score, but
merely wished to show that the modern scientist, if his labours were
critically tested, occasionally sunk below the intellectual level of the
Helot. That such men should feel no interest in Spiritualism was
102
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 2, 1877.
much to be thankful for. If they were to feel an interest, they would
probably degrade it. Yet their existence, unnecessary though it might
appear, was not without giving us a practical lesson. An all-wise
Providence had created them for some purpose within His knowledge;
and had also endowed us with devotional feelings of thanksgiving that
we were not created like them.
The proceedings then closed.
Mr. and Mrs. C. F. VarleY are travelling in Italy. (
Mr. Gerald Massey is now in London, busy on his forthcoming (
book The Origin of Myths, on which he is expending an amount of )
honest work unprecedented in these days of superficial book-making. I
The next fortnightly meeting of the National Association of j
Spiritualists will be held on Monday next, when Mr. Fitz-Gerald will |
read a paper on “ Physical Science and Spiritual Psychology.” j
The reprinting of the standard book on Mesmerism by the late Pro- i 5
fessor Gregory, issued under the auspices of the Duke of Argyll, is
now going on with rapidity, and copies will be obtainable in a few jj
weeks’ time. m
Dr. Slade is still in Holland, giving splendid test seances to critical i) j
observers. Mr. Martheze has just received a letter from M. Bourbon, j (]
stating that utter disbelievers are now commonly getting messages on |)!
their own slates, without Dr. Slade touching the slates at all. jj i
Modern Poetry.—A series of selections of “Modern Poetry,” with jj
critical comments, will shortly be read by the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, jjj
D.D., at the residence of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, jj j
Grosvenor-square, London, commencing at 9.30 p.m. The following is jjj
the programme:—April 11th: Vers de tSociete; April 18th: Humour: hi
English and American; April 25th: Pathetic and Devotional Poetry; 11
Yocal Illustrations by Miss K. Poyntz, and Mr. Augustus H. Tamplin j j i
(harmonium). Admission by ticket. |j
The effect of shutting out from public seances disbelievers who break j j j
necessary conditions—a plan we have always advocated on scientific i j
grounds—has wonderfully increased the power and precision of the j j
manifestations, which are now worth observing, even by the experienced, j j
In private life plenty of new circles have been formed; members of the j i
nobility, barristers, and various kinds and conditions of people are ob- jjl
taining results, some of which have frightened even those through whose j j
mediumship they have been evolved. i j j
Mrs. S. C. Hall,—The Court Journal tells us that “Her Majesty ]|j
has sent a portrait of herself, with an autograph letter, to Mrs. S. C. ij j
Hall, who is in feeble health.” The gift was not only a portrait of Her j j
Majesty, as the following letter wifi show:—“The Queen has the ijj
greatest pleasure in presenting to Mrs. S. C. Hall a portrait of herself, j j j
and also portraits of herself and the Prince.” We venture to charac- i j
terise this as “ true royalty;” it is an act that does honour to the donor, j j
as well as to the recipient. A mere petty potentate would not venture j j
so far to set aside conventionality. A really great sovereign has no jjj
consciousness of stooping in-thus rewarding an honoured subject for a j j
life’s work, devoted to man’s good and God’s glory. That work is j j j
matter of history. We have but to take down from our shelves the ijj
volume of the Cyclopcedia containing Mrs. Hall’s name, to see the long j i
list of her literary triumphs. Her Sketches of Irish Character, and jj j
Tales of the Irish Peasantry, are English classics. Her numerous j j j
novels may be described, as a terse English writer characterised those j j
of a distinguished French contemporary, saying that they “left a jjj
pleasant taste in the mouth.” They have been translated into foreign jjj
languages, an honour not accorded to ephemeral fiction. Her pen has j j j
never been idle in the cause of charity. She is an accomplished jji
dramatic writer. In a word, Her Majesty, in paying this graceful jjj
tribute to Mrs. S. C. Hall, has shown that nice discrimination of literary j j
taste and talent which always characterised her and her husband, the jj
late lamented Prince Consort.—Kensington News.
Spiritualism in Newcastle.—A special meeting of the Newcastle- j j
on-Tyne Society of Spiritualists was held at their rooms, W eir’ s-court, j j
on Thursday evening, February 22nd, called on the requisition of jj
sixteen of the members. Mr. Mould was voted into the chair, and jj
Mr. Kersey stated the object of the assemblage to be the consideration jj
of the relationship existing between the medium, Miss Fairlamb, and jjj
the society.—Mr. Marchant objected to Mr. Armstrong, the president, jj i
discontinuing the Thursday evening seances on his own authority, and j j
desired to know whether Miss Fairlamb was the society’s medium or i j
not; he thought when he joined the society that he was entitled to ||M
attend two seances per week, and he strongly objected to the present jji
method of management.—Mr. Armstrong then detailed the terms of jji
the agreement of Miss Fairlamb with the society, signed by him as ijj
president, and stated that the agreement ended at any time the society jji
did not pay her, and, as the members were so few in number, and the jjj
seances not well attended, those circumstances justified the position he jjj
had taken.—Considerable discussion then took place.—Mr. Kersey read j j i
a letter from Miss Fairlamb offering fresh terms to the society.—Mr. jjj
Compton considered that the members had fallen off on account of the jjj
bad management at the seances. (Cries of “ No, no.”) Another thing jji
he had to complain of was that the officers of the society did as they j j j
liked, and were not responsible to the members ; he thought there ought : j j j
atleastto be a quarterly meeting.—Mr.Rhodes remarked that the society jjj
at present depended for existence upon one medium ; when Miss Wood j j j
left the members dwindled away, and if Miss Fairlamb now left what j j i
was to hold them together? They must thoroughly reorganise the jjj'
society on a broader basis, so that it should not depend for existence j j j
upon anv one medium,—The meeting was adjourned for a week, Iff
THE LITERATURE OF SPIRITUALISM.
Experienced Spiritualists frequently remark that all attempts to
injure Spiritualism result in its advancement, and that idea was never
more fully verified than in the results of the recent persecution of
mediums. Spiritualism being true, and founded upon facts which any¬
body may verify in his own home, anything which calls attention to
the subject, of course results in benefit to the movement. During the
last few months, about 30,000 large leaflets, instructing the readers how
to form circles in their own homes, and containing other useful informa¬
tion about Spiritualism, have been circulated in this country, chiefly in
the provinces. Within the last few weeks, about 5,000 copies of The
Spiritualist have been posted to residents in the South Kensington
district, and other parts of the south and south-west of London; this
has been done partly by the National Association of Spiritualists, partly
by Mr. Charles Blackburn, and partly by Mr. W. H. Harrison. The
attacks upon mediums caused the circulation of The Spiritualist to rise
at an unusual rate last autumn, and during every London “ season ” it
always rises to a considerable extent, since the journal tends to meet
the requirements of those who at that time take up their residence in
the metropolis. The circulation is assuming a decidedly international
character, the demand for The Spiritualist in foreign countries being
largely on the increase.
SEANCES AT MRS. MAKDOUGALL GREGORY’S.
Interesting private seances, with Mr. Eglinton as medium, are held
weekly atMrs. Makdougall Gregory’s, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square.
Last Monday night some materialisation, or transformation, manifesta¬
tions were witnessed; they were stronger than on previous occasions,
but not yet sufficiently advanced to afford a foundation for public
description. Those who saw a form under test conditions at Mrs.
Gregory’s, as published by us last week, were Mrs. Davies and Mr. W.
H. Harrison, who were so placed as to have a full view of it; also Dr.
Davies, who was so seated that he could see the top of it, as it rose
above the level of the edge of the table; and Mrs. Wiseman, who saw a
portion of it by turning her head, the form being a foot or so behind
her left arm.
YE LANKESTERIAN SYSTEM.
A spirituelle songe.
There was a time, not long ago,
When here in England merry,
Within domestic castles, folks
Were free, and easy—very.
■ But, one by one, each privilege
We’ve gradually missed ’em,
Since England has been, subject to
A “ Lankesterian’’ system.
The Board School officer at first
Produced a mild revulsion ;
But all will soon he forced to act
St. Thomas, on “ compulsion.”
First, Father Tooth experiences
Penzance’s care parental,
Since in his genuflections he
Became too transcen—dental.
Poor Slade is forced to flee, because
A young “ Professor ” cranky,
Envied the guineas fairly earned
By a rival doctor Yankee.
For, oh ! that apple-faced one feels
A consciousness distressful;
In L. S. D. his family tree
Has not been quite successful.
And Dr. Monclc finds English law
Uncomfortably plastic,—
It lands him oakum-picking in
A Wakefield cell monastic.
While every medium, like some chap
Who prigs what isn’t his’n,
Policeman X'will soon make preach
Unto “ the spirits ” in prison.
We all shall be “ shut up ”—although
In England it seems funny—
If Lankester and his mamma
Think we make too much money.
The prospect, every one must own,
Particularly nice is,
For lazy folks who pocket swag
By “ craftiest devices.” -
The bishops tremble in their shoes,
And dread lest they may rue it,
Netting their thousands as they do
To find how “ not to do it.”
While Government officials fear
To quit their land of plenty,
If once it’s ruled folks shan’t be paid
For dolce far niente.
March 2, 1877. THfr SPlRltUAlJS?. 105
Young Angelina, never more
Urged by your ma, miss, try '
To book your heir. Such airy tricks
Amount to “ palmistry.”
Or if this term won’t cover quite
The way you trap your prizes,
Some other wise Professor r has
No end of “ otherwises.”
Policeman X is everywhere
To see that folks don’t work ill;
In fact, there’s nothing nowadays
Like a “ domestic circle.”
Espionage is all the ragp,
So since it strikes me—heigho!
We’re drifting back perceptibly
To the days of .Galileo,
I’ll seek a land where no regime
Like that at home one sees, is :
But every one, with Uncle Sam,
Can do as he 11 dam pleases.”
©mespmtiience,
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to thoseof thisjournal and itsreaders. Unsolicitedcommunicationscannotbereturned; copies
should be Icept by the writers.']
THE OBSOLETE ACT OF GEORGE THE SECOND.
Sir,—Some apprehension has been expressed that the old Act of 9th
Geo. II., cap. 5, against the pretence “ to exercise or use any
kind of witchcraft, sorcery, enchantment, or conjuration,” may be put
in force when evidence is not forthcoming upon which to convict a
medium of fraud. If the enemy is prepared to go this length—to j
take up the position that Spiritualism is not to be proved, but to be
assumed to be false in the court of law—he would be a rash lawyer
who, after the decision in a Yagrancy Act, would pronounce with
confidence that we are in no danger from the older and more arbitrary
statute. If the real value of mediumship—or, at least, what medium-
ship professes to be—was understood by or could be explained to a
legal tribunal, it would be seen that there is no pretence of a power j
which can be voluntarily exercised, such as witchcraft, * sorcery, j
enchantment, and conjuration appear to imply. But we must remember ]
that the conviction of Lawrence was owing to this very distinction |
having been overlooked. In that case, the false pretence laid in the i
indictment was that the prisoner “ had power to communicate with
the spirits of deceased or other persons,” (!) the only evidence of any
pretence being the fact of manifestations occurring, and some talk |
about spirits and “genuine manifestations.” In any ordinary case j
such a variance would have been held fatal, and an acquittal for want '
of evidence of the pretence laid would have been directed; so we [i
cannot be sure that evidence of spirit manifestations professedly occur- j1
ring would not be held sufficient evidence of pretence by the medium
that he had evoked them ; nor, probably, would any formal disclaimers
avail. And, supposing the Act to apply, there would be little difficulty
in putting it in operation. As it would be unnecessary to prove that
the manifestations were not genuine, any believer could be made to [
give evidence that would convict the medium, and thus precautions
against the admission of strangers would cease to be a protection.
The danger is real, but I think the enemy will be well advised to keep
this engine of persecution in reserve. In the present temper of the
public* they can secure a conviction for false pretences or under the
Vagrant Act upon very slight evidence of trickery, thus gaining the
benefit of a presumption which, if nakedly invoked in criminal pro¬
ceedings, might provoke a reaction. But the inevitable growth of the
movement will probably exasperate them beyond the bounds of
prudence. In the meantime, we have only to wait patiently. The
day of their confusion will surely arrive. C. C. Masset.
Temple* — 
UNION VERSUS DISINTEGRATION.
Sir,—Among several interesting letters which I have received since
our Conference, is a stirring epistle from “ a friendand, as he treats
of a subject of some general importance, but has omitted to give his
address, I venture to claim the privilege of a small space in your columns
for a reply.
Possessing abundance of lofty sentiment and right feeling, it is a pity
that the views of our friend cannot be gratified in this age. The time
is yet far distant when things may be obtained for the asking; but in
this dull nineteenth century his warm expressions of astonishment that
the British National Association of Spiritualists does not open its doors
to all comers, without payment, is surely more poetical than practical.
If no better obiection could be urged, the simple fact that there would
soon be no space to accommodate the multitude under the roof of the
actual premises of the Association should suffice. We do not exactly
live under circumstances and conditions where we may all sit down on j
the grass, order loaves and fishes, and be filled. The economical j
principles of our friend, who desires to have something for nothing, are
manifestly unsound.
The same misapprehension prevails as to the real objects and modes
of working of the Association. A few words of explanation may help to
enlighten those who think us “ too exclusive,” confining our privileges j
to a favoured few, and exacting terms beyond the means of the great
mass of Spiritualists. Our main objects, as set forth in our prospectus
and rules, are—to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion in an
organised body for their mutual aid and benefit; to aid students and j
inquirers in their researches into Spiritual phenomena; and to take j
such action as may be considered conducive to the promotion of Spirit¬
ualism, and to the protection of Spiritualists. Further, it is among our I
objects to establish a central place for public meetings; to open lecture
rooms, libraries, reading rooms, and seance rooms and suitable offices;
to collect statistical facts concerning Spiritualism; to keep a register of
mediums; and to afford facilities to foreign investigators visiting this
country. Now, it is clear that these objects cannot be carried .out
without material support; and it is fair that those who contribute to
the funds of the Association for carrying out these objects should know
how their money is expended, and should have some voice in the
management. This is the meaning of “membership”—that much-
misunderstood term. And, as money tests are always to be deprecated,
the subscriber of 5s. a year has equal rights with the subscriber of £50
a year—that is to say, he or she is eligible for every office, from that of
the president downwards; and each has only one vote at the general
meeting. Generally speaking, members subscribe as they are able, or
as they are disposed: some give one guinea, some two guineas, others
five, five-and-twenty, or fifty pounds annually. The privileges of the
library—which entail outlay of funds on our part—are the only ones
not extended to subscribers of less than half-a-guinea a year. Many of
our meetings are open to all Spiritualists, whether members or not,
and all are cordially welcomed whenever they attend. For my own
part, I know of no society so general in its invitation, and so liberal as
regards the privileges it confers; the rich being content to give their
support for the benefit of the less wealthy. And, as regards opinions,
the utmost freedom prevails. No one is asked to subscribe to any doc¬
trine, or belief, or theory: opinions are freely exchanged and discussed,
and no one set of views predominates over any other.
It is, perhaps, not sufficiently well known that, besides members, we
have what I may call a second order, who are simply subscribers.
These are committed to no share in the work of the Association, and
can join for a few months at a time. Their names are not made public,
and they are not suspected of being Spiritualists. Their privileges are
the use of the library, and attendance at certain seances. The sub¬
scription is one guinea a year, payable quarterly if desired. This
arrangement is much used by inquirers and persons visiting London
or passing through the country from abroad, and is found to work ad¬
mirably. In conclusion, let me make it plain that all Spiritualists are
welcome at Great Russell-street, whether subscribers or not; but I
would recall to their sense of justice that those who support us with
their heart and purse, have a natural right to the privileges which they
help to procure; and that any charge of exclusiveness on this ground is
irrational. If any have a right to complain, it is those who have pre¬
pared the feast, and not those who refuse to partake of it. If the invi¬
tation which we extend to all is not yet so widely responded to as we
should wish, we can only hope that in time, when those who have borne
the heat and burden of the day have perhaps passed from earth to a
higher sphere of usefulness, the Association they have striven to uphold
will be as they intended it, the ingathering of all who desire the best
interests of this great Spiritualist movement; and that it will be
regarded as the stronghold of purity, freedom, truth, and spirituality.
Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists.
INSTANTANEOUS spirit poetry.
Sir,—I have the pleasure to send you a copy of the lines you desired
to have the other evening. It may be as well to add that they were
written off with almost incredible rapidity, and not only was the im¬
promptu part astounding, but a circumstance quite as curious was that
Miss Showers was talking during the time her hand was used for the
communication, and begging that it might be more slowly and legibly
written, in order that she might be able to decipher it afterwards. I
had hurriedly gathered up three or four sheets of note paper from the
adjoining table, and they were lying scattered before my daughter.
The pencil dashed out a few words on one piece, then on another ; back
again; then across, without any order or arrangement whatever, and'
the specimen piece I enclose (which is the only bit I have, the rest
having been distributed among my friends) will enable you to form an
idea how utterly illegible the writing was. These rhythmical answers
are given instantaneously, without the slightest deliberation or pre¬
meditation, and are always full and satisfactory replies to the questions
asked. I am obliged to transcribe them as quickly as possible before
the spirit pronounces the seance closed; after he bids us adieu the
writing becomes unintelligible to my daughter, and through omissions
on my part the results of many interesting sittings have been lost to
us. Any person who wishes to follow the manifestations given to us
by John King would do well to get numbers of The Spiritualist for the
end of December, 1874, and for January, 1875, in which his earliest
communications are recorded. The spirits are working according to
a definite plan, and the most insignificant of the manifestations will
turn out to be of far more consequence than some may now imagine.
On the evening of the 28th ult., I proposed that we should sit for
“John King,” and my daughter, who was the only other person pre¬
sent, readily acceded to my request. It is not my purpose to record
all the versified replies we got, as they related more particularly to
matters connected with myself, but I may mention that we commenced
with a brief prayer, and then got the following couplet almost
directly:—
Command me and I will obey,
’Tis right that you for me should pray.
I had, not prepared any questions, and hardly knew what I had
better ask; at last on inquiring why we never got communications
from our own departed friends, it was answered :—
Their natures differ from those of mortals,
And it hurts them to enter the earthly portals.
Did you profess the Christian faith when on earth?
104
THE SPIEITUALIST.
March 2, 1877.
There was much in the faith that did me appal,
Still I clung to that faith as a vine to the wall.
Has Peter lived on earth ?
Incredible as it seems to you,
Peter has lived and suffered too.
And you, have you suffered ?
Yes, I have bent in anguish
O’er a well-loved form—then clay—
And watched in hopeless misery
The dawning light of day,
Which seemed to mock me as I knelt
Alone with death and God,
Alone with all I loved, which soon
Must mingle with the sod.
And then my whole soul burning
With that sorrow so intense,
It made me long for anything
To end the dread suspense,
Despairingly I turned to Him ;
He heard my broken prayer,
And stealing o’er my stricken soul
The answer came, “ She’s there!’’
And there, beyond the wear and tear,
Of this dai'k world below—
Beyond the sensuality,
The weariness, the woe—
I found her whom I’d mourned as lost,
In many a day long past:
Our hands are linked in Spirit-land,
For ever linked, at last.
1 was so powerfully affected by this wonderfully given communica¬
tion that I forgot to ask whether it referred to the spirit who wrote
with John King and signed herself “Ada Evangeline” in the verses
that were published in The Spiritualist three years ago, but I suppose
it to be the same, and have no doubt we shall hear more yet. What
are we to say of those who are striving so earnestly to keep the know¬
ledge of this faith, which enables us to look confidently beyond time
and death, from the lonely and the miserable ? I obtained this reply
on the evening of the 28th January, about eight o’clock. Twelve hours
afterwards a lady threw herself out of her window in Berkeley-square,
and it transpired at the inquest that she had been driven to suicide by
grief at the deaths of her husband and daughter. *
Frederica Showers.
j’tHE LEGAL LIABILITIES OP MEDIUMS.—TRUSTWORTHY ADVICE.
Sir,—The spirit of persecution is not laid, and if any medium brings
himself within the grasp of the authorities he will receive neither
justice nor mercy.
I would, therefore) recommend mediums to adopt the most stringent
measures for self-protection.
In all cases a ticket of admission should be given to each of the per¬
sons present. The face of this ticket should contain the following
printed notice:—
MOTlCE.
This ticket admits the hearer to a seance with Mr. —to witness Such
occurrences as may transpire in his presence. But it is expressly declared
that the causes or sources of such occurrences are in no way asserted. The
visitor must form his own judgment upon them. The production of phenomena
of any kind is not guaranteed.
As an additional protection a book should be provided, having printed
upon it at the head of each page the following declaration, or to the like
effect; and every person permitted to be present should be required to
sign it before the seance begins
We, the undersigned, hereby Accept the terms of our admission to the seance
of Mr. , as being that no occurrences are guaranteed, and that the causes
or sources of anything that may he witnessed are not in any way affirmed to us
by him, and that we are required to form our own judgments as to the origin
and nature of whatever may be presented to us. Dated this day of
These precautions would preclude the possibility of prosecution. The
signing of the “Attendance Book ” would exclude foes in disguise. No
honest inquirer could»object to sign such a declaration, and they who do
so are better absent.
Such precautions might diminish the attendances at public seances,
but this would be an advantage, and, if receipts be also diminished, the
loss might be compensated by a higher fee for admission.
I would also recoinmend that these books and tickets should be pro¬
vided and sold at a small charge, with blanks for the name of the
medium, to be filled up when used.,
I can add my professional opinion that absolute security would thus
be provided.
It should be adopted by all paid mediums, public or private.
A Lawyer.
Temple, Feb. 8th. —. —
THE APBARITIONS OE PERSONS LIVING IN THE BODY.
Sir,—The reading of Dr. Wyld’s narrative respecting the appearance
in the kitchen of the double of the daughter of the master of the house,
whilst the same lady was at the very moment on her way home, brought
to somewhat painful remembrance a similar vision I had myself.
I was sitting last summer, on a nice and clear day, in my mother’s
house. At about six o’clock in the afternoon my mother turned to look
through the window, when she exclaimed, “ Here is Isaac,” meaning
my youngest brother. I turned round, and, recognising m^-brother,
said, “ So it is.” We sat down, and naturally expected him to enter the
room in which we were, but nobody came. My mother looked into the
yard, and into the neighbour’s house, but could not find him. After
half-an-hour’s time we saw my brother come from the same direction,
but this time he entered the room and saluted us. He looked careworn
and ill, and took to his bed for weeks, suffering from gastric fever. He
recovered.
When my mother first saw his apparition she believed he would die.
My mother is an anti-Spiritualist. She remarked, after seeing my
brother’s double, ** If that is your Spiritualism, don’t let’s have any of
it here.” We were all very glad when my brother recovered.
My husband once saw an apparition—a double. He saw a shortish
woman, about fifty years of age, dressed in black, with a healthy com¬
plexion, and carrying a teapot in her left hand. A day or two afterwards
the very woman came with a teapot, asking me to let my husband mend
it. Some people may say it was a dream, but it was not, because my
husband gave me the description of the woman whilst he saw her with
his eyes open. (Mrs.) A. Walter.
Ormond-street, Birmingham, Feb. 26th.
MRS. VEAL.
Sir,—The author of the work, entitled A True Relation of the
Apparition of one Mrs. Veal, the next day after her death, to one Mrs.
Bar grave, at Canterbury, the Sth of September, 1705, 8vo. 1705, and
which was afterwards subjoined to the subsequent editions of Drelincourt
on Death (I refer more especially to the editions of 1719, 1720, 1732,
1751, 1756, and 1810, which are before me), was Daniel Defoe, the
accurate and veracious biographer of Robinson Crusoe, Moll Flanders,
The Devil, and other persons ejusdem generis. The circumstances under
which Defoe invented the story, with a view to effect a sale of the copies
of Drelincourt on Death, which had for a long time been lumbering the
publisher’s shelves, were well detailed in the Miscellaneous Prose
Works of Sir Walter Scott, 8vo, Edin. 1841, Cadell’s edition, p. 171,
to which I must commend your readers for detailed proofs of the
concoction of a joke which bore solid pecuniary fruit. The covert
advertisement by Mrs. Veal, after death, of Drelincourt’s book on Death
as “ the best book on the subject ever written,” should give us a hint in
the present days of advertising. To use the words of Mr. John Forster
—Daniel Defoe, 8vo, London, 1855—“ The book has been popular ever
since. More than fifty editions have not exhausted its popularity.
Mrs. Veal’s ghost is still believed by thousands; and the hundreds of
thousands who have bought the silly treatise of Drelincourt (for hawking
booksellers have made their fortunes by traversing the country with it
in sixpenny numbers), have borne unconscious testimony to the genius
of Defoe.”—(p. 105.)
I may also refer to Lowndes’ Bibliographer's Manual of English
Literature, 8vo, London, 1834, vol. ii., page 562, for further evidence.
C. Carter Blake.
Sir,—I have been informed that Defoe is said to have invented the
story of Mrs. Veal as a joke. If the personages mentioned in the story
were real, and living in Kent, how was it that the falsehood was not
discovered at once7 Did Defoe ever admit that it was an invention?
Or was he so ridiculed by the ignorant that he thought it well not to
deny the charge of its being a joke, especially as in those days—as in
this—people were liable to imprisonment for advocating anything
unpopular? The precedent of the Cock Lane Ghost should not be
forgotten; the facts were explained away at the time, but have recently
been proved to be genuine phenomena. P.
Sir,—I am anxious that a contradiction of the Drelincourt ghost
story (as a bond fide narrative) Should come from a Spiritualist.
The story of the fiction was well known fifty years ago; it is no doubt
forgotten by many people now.
When Drelincourt’s book upon death was first published it did not
find purchasers, and the author, being very low-spirited, complained to
Daniel Defoe of the failure of his work. Defoe told him that he would
make his book sell fast enough, and, taking his pen, wrote off the clever
story of Mrs. Veal and Mrs. Bargrave (both Canterbury names), which
he told Charles Drelincourt to insert in his preface to another edition,
or to add a new preface containing it to the unsold copies, I am not.
sure which. Tins was done, and Drelincourt on Death became a
popular book. Your correspondent’s edition is the twenty-ninth;
whether the volume went through more editions I do not know. No
doubt you will be overwhelmed with letters giving this explanation;
but I hope the story will not be brought against us as an instance of
readiness to accept a marvel without authentication.
Any honest person not knowing the facts, would readily believe that
a religious writer on a serious subject would not descend to such dis¬
honest means of ensuring literary success. The disgrace, if any,
belongs to-the Rev. Charles Drelincourt. As to Daniel Defoe, he was
not expected to be scrupulous, and I daresay thought his performance a
bit of harmless fun to serve a friend. S. E. De Morgan.
8, Cheyne-row, Chelsea.
DR. CARPENTER ON SPIRITUALISM—CURIOUS STATEMENTS ABOUT THE ACTION
OP THE DIVINING ROD.
Sir,—In the February Number of Fraser's Magazine, Dr. Carpenter has
been again working away in his old profitless style, at his old impossible
task—that of attempting to give a low materialistic interpretation to
high spiritual phenomena. I am sorry to say that he has made little or
no progress during the last twenty years, and as I wish to use appro¬
priate language, I may naturally ask—How could a man without the
requisite mental originality, and without sufficient capacity for receiving
or appreciating any new ideas, ever become an enlightened philosopher ?
It is rather dreary work—and I must confess I am heartily tired of
it—that of perusing Dr. Carpenter’s essays on the subject of the
spiritual faculties and endowments of humanity, In the first place,
he literally knows little or nothing about the subject he so pertinaciously
discusses; and, in the next place, he as constantly reproduces the same
March 2, 1877 THE SPIRITUALIST. 105
arguments which have so often been refuted, and the same illustrations, j
which have as often been exposed. Like an ambitious, unskilful,
conceited knight, he is continually complacently rushing into the tilting
yard to raise his puny lance against that giant-champion, Truth; and j
though our inane knight is soon invariably hurled to the ground, he j
is quickly up again, because he is mercifully allowed to fall on the soft j
saw-dust of literary controversy. Let us see if he cannot be made to j
feel a little sterner usage on a more stony soil. j
Dr. Carpenter boasts that he has been engaged for forty years as a j
“ scientific expert ” in investigating mental and, so-called, spiritual pheno¬
mena, and that he has arrived at the conclusion that they can all be
explained by his borrowed materialistic theories of “hysteria,’’ “mental
disturbance,” “reflex action,” and “cerebral forces.” Asfaras Spiritualism I
is concerned these phrases are merely scientific gibberish, and convey no
explanation whatever. Now, as we ought always to call things by their j
right names, I must commence my attack upon this technical “ expert ”
by telling him frankly that he has not shown himself to possess the
necessary accuracy, the patience, the intelligence, or the faculty for
investigating anything whatever of profound and original importance;
and while he pursues his present “ method,’’ with no more than his
present amount of candour and acumen, he will never accomplish any
satisfactory result, if he lives and investigates for another period of
forty years. I will give the reader a single specimen of how Dr.
Carpenter conducts an examination of the phenomena of Spiritualism,
and I speak from personal knowledge. In this Fraser article he says
that when the phenomena fail to appear, he is “ told that he has
brought an ‘ atmosphere of incredulity ’ with him which prevents the
manifestations.”
In the Quarterly Review for October, 1871, Dr. Carpenter attributes
this silly opinion to me. In my little work on Apparitions I exposed
his inaccuracy, and although so renowned an “expert” may not have
seen my obscure production, anyone intelligently acquainted with
Spiritualism could have corrected his absurd mistake. It is, therefore,
evident that he has not studied the literature of Spiritualism, and that
he is ignorant of the A B C of its precepts. This ignorance is further j
revealed by his apparently slight acquaintance with its more important
phenomena. He seems to have heard of those special manifestations |
which were so discussed that they “ went the round of the press,” and
which any lazy reader could know who casually glanced at the columns j
of a newspaper, but of thorough experience he appears to have had j
none, and we can easily account for this deficiency when we learn the j
perfunctory mode which he pursued in his “ studies.” He goes to a
gentleman’s house to witness some spiritual phenomena, which disap- i
point him and every one else who is present. Why ? Because directly j
any of the required conditions are established, and feeble manifestations j
begin to appear, Dr. Carpenter immediately disturbs these conditions by j
proposing other conditions, which he terms “ a test ”; he places himself
in a controversial and hostile attitude towards the medium, and the
result is that the manifestations which do appear are not calculated to
convince any one possessing the slightest intelligence. Dr. Carpenter j
takes his leave, never comes again, gossips over his “ experience ” with |
a friend, misrepresents what occurred, and calls his host a “ simpleton.” j
So much for Dr. Carpenter’s “ method ” of scientific inquiry, and his j
plan of conducting his (( studies.” Now, under such circumstances, I
any experienced Spiritualist would deliver the following advice:—
“ Dr. Carpenter, the manifestations you have witnessed this even- j
ing are very feeble and unsatisfactory, as they generally are on a
first occasion. They would not convince me, and I cannot expect i
them to convince you. To get at the root of this mystery you must j
not expect to see through it all at once, or desire to establish test !
conditions with a medium on your first visit. Go to this investigation !
steadily, patiently, and laboriously; and then, after studying the sub- j
ject for a few months or years, you may be qualified to give an opinion j
about it. Your ‘ atmosphere of incredulity ’ has nothing whatever to do
with our present failure. Every intelligent inquirer ought to come at j
first with an ‘atmosphere of incredulity.’ What you want is an
atmosphere of refined and cultivated common sense—that is all. Our
medium is uneasy and excited; and this is the reason why the mani¬
festations have been so poor. I would recommend you to cultivate the
friendship of several mediums; make it worth their while to devote
themselves to your researches. When you become a practised and
developed observer, and your mediums are on good terms with you, j
the manifestations will probably become astounding. You will then be
able to succeed in establishing any ‘ test conditions ’ which your skill or
scepticism can devise. I have no doubt that the result will reward you
by revealing, not a new subtle order of forces, for they have existed
ever since humanity was created, but the agency of angelic and spiritual 11
ministrations and beings, which are calculated to illuminate the history '
and mystery of the past, and charm us into a grand belief of a sublime <
future.” 7 . ■ .f;/ • 1
In estimating the spiritual manifestatiqps, Dr. Carpenter has, with ]
his usual want of consideration, made no allowance for the anxiety of i
the medium, and yet this mental condition is generally fatal to the IJ
exhibition of satisfactory phenomena. Why ? because on the principle !!
that spirits of a certain kind are attracted to us by a corresponding i<
disposition in our own natures, anxiety is one of those morbid states j <
whi<jh invite the co-operation of evil and error-producing spirits. When I
a medium is subjected to “ tests ” in any special performance of his i t
power, and on account of the novelty of the occasion and the expecta- ij
tion of the observers, he becomes nervously anxious to succeed; failure j j
is generally the impotent result. Notably is this shown in the use of j |
the divining rod; the mode of carrying it is not quite correctly described jj
by Dr. Carpenter; the two prongs of the forked hazel twig ought to be i)
held in the hands of the diviner, and closely pressed to his sides, so that K
the rod may be carried steadily, tinder these circumstances the pro- |\
jecting stem is sometimes so bent downwards in the act of divination ])
that the bark is ruptured—an act which could not be performed by h
hands placed at the other extremities of the rod; but Dr. Carpenter’s facts
are so superficially, idly, and ignorantly told, that there is no depend¬
ence to be placed upon them.
How then is the divining rod really made to act properly ? The
diviner is necessarily a medium, and the rod is moved by a spirit ap¬
pointed for the purpose, and in attendance on the medium. Like all
other mediums, this one for water or metal finding is liable to have his
success entirely foiled by the intrusion of anxiety or apprehension into
his mind, inviting the co-operation of an undeveloped spirit which fre¬
quently succeeds in frustrating the manifestation. The most successful
manifestations are generally those which are accompanied by calm¬
ness on the part of the medium; excitement is always an injurious
condition.
If we had time and patience we could go through the whole of
Dr. Carpenter’s article, paragraph by paragraph, and expose its
shallowness and error; but the game is not worth the candle. The
wave of Truth will some day rise and wash away such conventional
lumber and sand-written literature; but unfortunately for our resigna¬
tion this wave of Truth takes a long time to rise and do its wholesome
work of consigning to oblivion such worthless records.
As private families do not like their homes converted into arenas for
scientific research by strangers, in future one of the greatest obstacles in
the way of “ experts ” investigating the phenomena of Spiritualism
will be the present state of the law as interpreted by judges who know
nothing whatever of the manifestations on which they are required to
adjudicate. In their eyes, for a medium to put another person in com¬
munication with a spirit for a money payment is sufficient to bring such
medium under the lash of the Vagrant Act as a rogue and a vagabond.
A hired medium is placed in the same category with a fortune-teller.
But why should fortune-telling be thus treated as a crime? I can
testify that it is not necessarily or even generally fraudulent, but a real,
genuine gift—a form of mediumship possessed by some people to a very
remarkable extent; and the attempt of the Legislature to put down the
exercise of this faculty, only shows the blundering stupidity which law¬
makers can perpetrate. I know that the law on this point is systemati¬
cally set at defiance, and it is rarely appealed to except for the purpose
of revenging oneself by a spiteful and malicious prosecution. Out of
ten thousand instances in which the law is broken, not ten cases find
their way into our police-courts. I have been personally acquainted
with several fortune-tellers whose faculty was indisputable, and they
exercised a sound influence; the advice they gave their clients was
generally wholesome and judicious, and the practice of their power was
greatly in request. Why then should a law be retained which is so
constantly defied ? We are told that it is necessary fl to protect ”
ignorant servant maids against the wiles of artful deceivers. We have
yet to learn that fortune-telling is a deception; but why, we would ask,
are ignorance and folly to be placed specially under the protection of the
law ? By all means let fraud be punished when it can be proved, but
palmistry and fortune-telling and “ otherwise,” are no more fraudulent
than horse-racing or athletics or the practice of medicine, although all
three of these pursuits may occasionally be conducted in such a manner
as to produce injurious and even fatal results. There are impostors in
every occupation and grade of life. The law does not interfere for the
protection of fools who back themselves to walk a thousand miles in a
thousand hours; and why should the law throw its sheltering aegis over
the fool who goes to consult a fortune-teller? In fact, the effect of the
law is to drive the public practice of those occult arts, palmistry,
fortune-telling, astrology, and “ otherwise,’’ into the hands of a low and
unscrupulous set of performers. We must also observe that the law is
not resorted to by the ignorant class, for whose protection it is supposed to
have been enacted, but by enlightened philosophers, who, by blundering and
ignorant evidence on a subject they do not understand, secure the con¬
viction of their victims. To enact a law which is never obeyed except
in a disgraceful manner, and to perpetuate that law when its spiteful
operation is so clearly manifest, is a mode of behaviour unworthy of any
nation, however collectively dunderheaded that nation may be. Many
persons who possess a real gift of telling fortunes by astrology or
“ otherwise,” judging character by handwriting or palmistry, or of
producing overt spiritual manifestations, are wonderful in their way,
and they are often not fit for any other occupation. If their services are
used, why should they not be remunerated ? Their patrons will soon
find out whether they are worthy of their reward. No one remains a
dupe long. For these reasons I regard the law affecting these matters
to be entirely ineffective for any purpose but an evil one; and I advo¬
cate “free trade in fortune-telling,” and in all the other occult arts.
Newton Cbosland,
Blaokheath, February, 1877.
MESSAGES BY WHITING MEDIUMSHlPi
Sir,—I send the enclosed spirit messages, thinking you might like
to insert them in your paper. Before I received the gift of writing
mediumship, I had read Very little about Spiritualism; the only
book I think I read through was a work of Judge Edmond’s. It came
very quietly in my own home, and, I may say, Unsought. I tried the
planchette at different times, but with no marked success. One even¬
ing suddenly, about two years ago, on taking a pencil, a few words
were written. Since then I have heard from many dear ones in the
spirit world.
October 13th, 1875 i—“Endless torment. Ah! never let that false
teaching for one moment be countenanced by you j rather speak
strongly against it, as utterly inconsistent with the known love of God
and His justice. Altogether, a teaching ended, or only used as an
instrument for causing fear, and a means of power used wrongly. You
are surprised that I should thus impress you. Well, the thought was
strong with me, as so utterly opposed to all we know of truth; and
in the light of God’s love, which shines upon us here, it is so un-
March 2, 1877.
ion
SPIRiTUALiSl\
speakably terrible as well as false. No, the Father has other thoughts
in His enduring love for His children. Yes, it is indeed God who
can alone know all the servants of His manifold creations, and He will
lead them all to Himself. I would impress you with the belief that
God’s love is boundless, and so each grain will be gathered up and
formed into the perfect man. Through such enduring very sharp
punishments as He sees necessary, all, even the most hardened, will be
gathered into the heavenly garner, and not one grain of pure wheat
lost; but all the chaff, the evil in each plant will be destroyed, and
thus bring fruit to everlasting life, and to the praise of the great
Harvestman.”
November 10th, 1875 :—“ We learn various things. I learn to
understand the mastery of life. Wonderful even to the smallest
particle; and there can be nothing lost, or fail of the purpose for
which given existence. I mean all life, even in things material, we
find here, in what are supposed to perish finally. But it is not so;
they are reproduced here, in the spirit world, though the form may be
different. It i§ the real life here, of which the earth forms are only
the image. And so you will understand how greatly the study adds
to God’s love and power, all things having a high meaning and satisfying.
All is well balanced, and crooked things on earth made straight in the
spirit life. In all kinds of animate life, not only human beings, the
soul of things we find here.” Edith L. Stone.
Skute Haze, Walditch, Bridport.
Shelley’s mediumship.
Sir,“In the Shelley Memorials, edited by Lady Shelley (H. S. King,
1875), there are some interesting revelations concerning that mystical
and wonderful poem, Epipsychidion, which I have only now read. In
a letter to his publisher, Shelley writes:—“ It (Epipsychidion) is
to be published simply for the esoteric few, and I make its author a
secret to avoid the malignity of those who turn sweet food into
poison.” Again, he says :—“ The Epipsychidion is a mystery ; as to
real flesh and blood, you know that I do not deal in those articles ; you
might as well go to a gin shop for a leg of mutton as expect anything
human or earthly from me.”
The fact is, “ The vision veiled from him so many years,” which “At
length into the obscure forest came,” was nothing more nor less than
the spectre of a living person, which, commonly as such sights are
acknowledged to be seen during the body’s sleep in the present wave
of Spiritualism, certainly, in those days, could only safely be hinted at
to the esoteric few. Here is the history, which shows that Shelley
“ did not deal in flesh and blood,” and that one accustomed to visions
of the dead as he was, saw the spirits of living persons also :—“ In 1821
Shelley wrote that piece of radiant mysticism and rapturous melody,
Epipsychidion. The subject of this poem, ‘ the noble and unfortunate
lady, Emilia N was the daughter of an Italian count, and was
shut up in a convent by her father until such time as he could find
for her a husband of whom he approved. In this dreary prison Shelley
saw her, and was struck by her amazing beauty, by the highly culti¬
vated grace of her mind, and by the misery which she suffered in being
debarred from all sympathy.” He saw much of her. She was subser
quently married, and died early, but her death occurred long after
Shelley’s.
Here are two specimens of his visions of the dead. In Mr. Williams’
diary, that of the gentleman who was drowned with Shelley, is found
the following :—“ After tea, while walking with S on the terrace,
and observing the effect of moonshine on the water, he complained of
being unusually nervous, and, stopping short, he grasped me violently
by the arm, and stared stedfastly on the white surf that broke upon
the beach under our feet. Observing him sensibly affected, I demanded
of him if he was in pain ; but he only answered by saying, ‘ There it
is again 1 there ! ’ He recovered after some . time, and declared that
he saw, as plainly as he then saw me, a naked child (Allegra, who had
recently died) rise from the sea, and clasp its hands as if in joy, smiling
at him.” Allegra was a daughter of Byron. Again:—‘‘One night
loud cries were heard issuing from the saloon. Entering the saloon,
the Williamses found Shelley staring horribly into the air, and evi¬
dently in a trance. They waked him, and he related that a figure
wrapped in a mantle came to his bedside, and beckoned him. He
must then have risen in his sleep, for he followed the imaginary figure
into the saloon, where it lifted the hood of its mantle, ejaculated, f Siete
so dispatto t ” (are you satisfied ?) and vanished.” Thus was Shelley
practically clairaudient and clairvoyant.
•Here is something that looks very like Byron being a powerful
psychical medium. Shelley’s unhappy widow—she was a daughter of
Godwin, and the author of Frankenstein, and many other works—thus
writes of Byron, whom she calls “Albe”:—“My feelings have no
analogy either with my opinion of him or the subject of his conversa¬
tion. With another I might talk and not for a moment think of
Shelley—at least, not think of him with the same vividness as if I
were alone; but when in company with Albe—Byron—I can never
cease for a second to have Shelley in my heart and brain with a clear¬
ness that mocks reality—interfering even by its force with the functions
of life—until, if tears do not relieve me, the hysterical feeling,
analogous to that which the murmur of the sea gives me, presses pain¬
fully upon me.” * Scrutator.
SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATION8 IN OLDHAM.
Sir,—It is only fair to so talented a physical medium as Mr. Willie
Eglinton to say that, during his recent visit to Oldham (when engaged
by a private party and not by the society) he gave entire satisfaction.
Seances were held on three consecutive evenings, and each seance was
attended by phenomena more or less striking. The direct voice was
heard on several occasions, and on the second night quite a speech was
given by Ernest in the direct voice; Joey also made his presence known
i| in the same manner. Dr. Monek’s incarceration was the subject of
j their conversation, and it was rather refreshing to hear how the spirit
| world seemed to sympathise with that unfortunate medium. I may
| remark that the spirits tied one gentleman fast, round the neck and
| arms, to the medium, and he—the gentleman—was somewhat surprised
i to find himself helpless. I should say he was quite convinced there
! was “ something in it.” During one of the sittings a heavy piano was
| lifted violently from its place, and the keys were fingered repeatedly;
i several chairs were also found upon the table when the gas was relighted,
j for these were dark seances. On the last evening there were two
| seances, one dark and one light. The light seance was an extraordinary
| one, from the fact that the medium was so carefully tied, Joey per-
I formed some very clever feats, and his materialised hand was shown
I repeatedly through an opening in the cabinet. - The medium’s finger
i rings, watch, and chain were taken from his person by the materialised
i hand, and given to sitters in the room. A small bell on the knees of the
i medium, whose extremities were in full view, was also rung by Joey,
; whose hand was plainly seen by all present. The company, with
| perhaps a solitary exception, gave unequivocal expression of their
i confidence in the medium and the genuineness of the manifestations.
Samuel H. Quarmby.
31, Plane-street, Oldham, February 22nd, 1877.
| SPIRIT RAPS.
! Sir,“I have read with great, interest the account of one of your
j discussion meetings. In the remarks about how spirit raps are pro-
j duced, Mr. Harrison said that he thought that they are given by
j “materialised, or partially materialised, hands rapping with their
1 knuckles on the table.” No doubt this may be one of the means
j employed, but I think it does not go far as an explanation; and if all
}j these spirit rappings are given via electricity, that does not explain
i much more definitely, because, of course, the questions then arise as to
! what electricity really is, and how it is used? But one interesting little
j | incident came into my mind as I read the remarks, and I just write you
j | these few lines to tell it to you.
j Some years ago, when the Davenport Brothers were in London, a
j friend went to one of their seances, accompanied by a “ seeing medium ”
! and a “ sceptical investigator.” As soon as the Brothers were fastened
i in the cabinet and the doors closed, the sceptical gentleman rushed
I forward, whether to open the doors or to be sure they were closed, I
| cannot remember; anyhow, he was close by the doors of the cabinet,
| underneath the aperture in the upper part of the doors through which
j spirit hands used to project. As he was standing there, my friend—as
j Well as the seeing medium, who was sitting by her side—saw a long
j spirit hand and arm thrust itself out of this aperture, and from the
| finger-tips were flowing streams, apparently of electric sparks, which
>j fell directly upon the head of the sceptical gentleman. He did not see
I the spirit hand, but on his return to my friend he said, “ I. have had a
I good hard knock on my head.” So, in this case, it is certain that the
| knock came to him by the means of these electric sparks. I could (as,
I no doubt, could anyone else) find similar proofs of this being a very
I usual way used by our spirit guides to convey their communications,
I whether by raps or writing, but will not now take up more space in
| your journal. F. J. Theobald.
| Lewisham, February 4th, 1877.
I MR. SMART’S PAPER.
| Sir,—I venture to suggest that such facts as those recorded in Mr,
j Smart’s paper are likely to prove of great historic value, as they cer-
| tainly are intensely interesting. I hope the author of that paper will
i favour the readers of The Spiritualist with more records of his seances,
j and especially state the names, dates and places given by the spirits
j released. The light which such revelations would throw upon the
j hidden mysteries and long-forgotten facts and customs of former times
j could not fail to be extremely interesting, and would render the pages of
jj The Spiritualist more engrossing than any romance. I have seldom
i read a more interesting paper, but its chief defect lies in the absence of
i all details of dates, names and places. If the circle in question could
| afford to take a reporter with them on their expeditions, and interest
j some gentleman of antiquarian research in the investigation, the results
| would be most valuable. F. A. B.
| Manchester. ———*
j “A MUSICAL PRODIGY.’’^
j Sir,—In a recent number of The Spiritualist,! noticed an account
| from an American paper, under the above heading, of a little musical
I genius, under five years of age, who is able to play simple tunes on the
! piano after hearing them sung or whistled by others. As instances of
j such early development of the musical gift are very rare, I thought an
I account of my own little boy, six years of age, would not be uninterest-
j ing to your readers. He commenced harmonising on the piano at three-
j and-a-half years of age; before he was four he could play simple tunes ;
i from four to five he acquired numbers of popular airs and hymn tunes,
ji including all the favourites of “ Moody and Sankey; ” at five he began
[j to play at public concerts and soirees / he also played the harmonium at
[ | the day school where he attends. He could then play all kinds of ipusic
ij —songs, dances, jigs, hymn tunes, and anthems. Up to five-and-a-half
(j years he never received the least instruction from any one; but I was
[ | once told by one of our local mediums, while under control at one of
)\ our private sittings, that he is under the guidance of a once celebrated
i| German female musician who has long since passed away.
j| I once asked him how he learnt his pieces; he said very innocently,
i j “ The angels tell me which keys to touch.’’ He can play simple airs
j without hesitation in seven different keys. He can tell the name of any
I note in the scale by the sound, either on the piano or any other instru-
I ment, without seeing the keys, or the notes sounded by the church bells,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
107
March 2, 1877.
always without hesitation. He can play almost as well with his eyes and
ears tightly bandaged. Indeed, if I mentioned all the phases of his
wonderful talent it would scarcely be credited. He is now under a first
class teacher, and, if spared, will be devoted to the musical profession.
As he does not now play in public on account of his health, he may
be seen at home any evening by any friend who wishes to witness his
remarkable talents. Chables W. Savage.
313, Upper Parliament-street, Liverpool.
A SUGGESTION.
Sir,—It has occurred to some friends of Spiritualism that we should
get up a farthing subscription to purchase a few leaden medals, to
present to certain notable people (or people who think themselves
notable) who have lately dignified themselves in London, and elsewhere,
as the champions of persecution; men who would take us back to the
dark ages, back to the martyr fires, the gallows, or the minor degrada¬
tions of the stocks, the pillory, and the ducking-stool. Is it possible
that such noble-minded men can be allowed to exist without some
public recognition of their services ? Shall we not write their names
in sand ? *
Barrow-in-Furness.  
SPIRITUALISM IN GLASGOW.
Sir,—You have not recently heard, as far as I am aware, any news
from the Society of Spiritualists or the condition of Spiritualism in
Glasgow.
In December last Mr. Cross gave an able reply to Mr. H. A. Long,
a local opponent of Spiritualism, in the Albion Hall. We regretted not
having a greater attendance on the occasion, and feared that the public
interest had lessened, although numbers of inquirers have found their
way this winter to our own hall in quest of information. However, it would
appear that it is mediumship after all which the public desire, rather
than local debating.
Mr. Morse gave an admirable address on Sunday, 11th February, in
the Trades Hall, which was crowded, some six hundred people being
present. They were attentive throughout. The subject—“ Spiritualism;
an Analysis of its Present Position, a Criticism of its Opponents, and
an Indication of its Future”—was handled by Mr. Morse’s guides in
their best style.
On the Tuesday following we had a soiree in our own hall; Mr.
Morse was again present, and it was considered the best we have had.
Mr. Morse gave trance speeches. Messrs. Walker, Cross, and Nisbet
also contributed by speeches and readings to the entertainment, which
was interspersed with abundant songs throughout the evening, under
Mr. Bowman’s superintendence. The president, treasurer, and com¬
mittee are doing their utmost to carry on the movement in Glasgow,
and we hope, by perseverance in a good cause, to make our position
as Spiritualists better than it has been at any previous time.
James Simpson, Sec.
141, Elderslie-street, Glasgow, Feb. 15th, 1877.
PUBLIC READING ROOMS.
Sir,—I notice with pleasure the remarks of Mr. C. Beimers, of Man¬
chester, on this subject, as being the outcome of our conversation and
suggestions. I at once hasten to give my views in support of his letter,
not so much in connection with Spiritualism as with its side issues—the
freedom of mankind from orthodox slavery, the principles of truth, and
the rights and privileges of man on a basis of Freemasonry, stripped of
its rites, ceremonies, and periodical feasts, to be coupled with an open
and intellectual freedom of inquiry into subjects calculated to add to the
knowledge of the investigator. The organic system would have to be
founded upon a similar basis to that of many Spiritualist and other
societies, but would be different in its principles—the one advocating the
almost threadbare system of propagandism, the other opening a legiti¬
mate channel for the acquirement of knowledge in whatever branch or
degree. Spiritualism comes to many not as a religious “ ism ” in the
ordinary construction and meaning of the word, but as a desire to
“ know thyseff and thy nature.” The “ Institute of Knowledge ” (I
cannot give it a better term) would embrace these ideas, and the many
subjects that are the outgrowth of the parent stem, “ Spiritualism.” No
such organised body, I believe, exists at present in Manchester. If,
through the medium of your paper, Mr. Reimer’s remarks and my own
should arouse the sympathy of the people of Manchester on this subject,
after further ventilation, a meeting might be called to confer as to the
best means of establishing such an institute. There are many Spirit¬
ualists in Manchester who, I believe, would be glad to assist in such an
undertaking. John Hartley.
Brooklands, Mottram-road, Hyde, Manchester,
February 24th, 1877.
, TEST SEANCES.
Sir,—I learn down in the country that spirits, able at times to
materialise in full form will sometimes, to save themselves trouble, or
for other causes, dress up the entranced medium and show him for a
ghost instead of themselves, however tightly the medium may have been
bound; and when they have shown him will, in a trice, return him to his
fetters as before. As a medium cannot be responsible for his actions
when entranced, and since no man who is not a conjuror can desire to
be known publicly and privately as a double dealer, I feel sure that any
medium who can follow his own wishes or the wishes of his friends on
this side the river Styx would willingly consent to submit to some
method by which his own good name would, under any circumstances,
be guaranteed; a method which might prove effectual in preventing
substitution, and by which his own bodily comfort would be certainly
secured during the seance, while giving, at the same time, the spirits
every chance of working honestly and with facility also. I would
||| venture, then, to suggest that an iron .cage might be tried, with bars at
||| top, bottom, and at the four sides, one of which sides should form the
i |! door. The cage should be sufficiently large for the medium to sit in at his
| | ease, or better, to lie down in on a sofa. The whole of the door or gate
| h should be seen by the audience, and if the hinges were at the bottom and
I vj : the gate opening like, say, that of an inverted live rat-trap (without
| | the'paraphernalia used for holding the toasted cheese), it could shut in
|(| the curtain which separates the medium from the audience, and which
||l forms a “ cabinet,” giving the spirits darkness. This gate should be
| i partly closed by a horizontal bar or bars, which should also be in sight.
|(| Small apertures should be made in the curtain, so that the .ends of bars
i I i from within might protrude outside, to which the horizontal bars for
|(I fastening the cage’s door outside should be attached, thus securing the
! I door outside in the sight of all. The medium would be thus quite at his
111 ease in his cage, the bars of which might be even sufficiently far apart
m for him to put his arm through; and in that case, I should infer, no
j || reasonable spirit could allege that there was not room for the whole of
| H his more ethereal presence to pass through. It would be interesting and
i) | profitable, after a good materialisation, to find the medium in statu quo
| (I ante. One of two things must then have occurred; there must have
| j| been either a true materialisation, or the medium must have been twice
II i drawn through iron bars far too narrow to admit of his passing through
| (| in the usual manner. The medium, in his cage, should be provided with
j a “ knuckle duster,” or some such blunt weapon, to use for self defence
; | whenever an infuriated rush should be made at him from without, after
1(1 a successful seance. An Old Man erom the Country.
Sir,—A correspondent has given you a test for dark seances, viz., to
cut out from paper outline figures. How would it do to ask the spirits
to play a game of chess? This would at once give a test for clairvoy¬
ance (materialisation, perhaps), and an intelligence behind.
There are many critical moves in a good game of chess. The light
could be uncovered after each move.
But this would probably open up a new phase of mediumship, and it
may be that concentration of thought on the chess board would prove an
obstacle. Z.
CEREBRAL PSTCHOLOGT.
Sir,—The Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., in the course of the dis-
| cussion on this subject before the Psychological Society, is reported to
have remarked “ that phrenology was not as certainly established as
other branches of physiology.”
If a sensitive be placed in the mesmeric trance state, and the operator,
taking a phrenological chart in one hand, with the other excites in turn,
by contact, the various organs, the subject will exhibit by gesture,
speech, and the emotions depicted on the countenance, indications
characteristic of and corresponding with the nature of the sentiment of
which the part of the head touched is alleged to be the seat. If
“ spirituality,” or “veneration,” at the apex of the brain be excited, the
expression of countenance, the folding of the hands as if in prayer, and
| the few words uttered, are all in accordance. If “ benevolence,”
“friendship,” “conscientiousness,” or “firmness,” the emotions exhibited
invariably correspond. If “destructiveness” over the ear, or “com¬
bativeness ” at the back of the head, then the operator must beware.
If “ language ” beneath the eye, there is an instantaneous impulse to
speak, though what is uttered is meaningless and fragmentary, unless a
I bias be given to the brain by the previous excitation of another organ, in
which latter case the utterances are in accordance with the alleged
nature of such organ.
Is not this to be regarded as conclusive prpof of the reality of phreno-
| logy? Or will it be said that the operator’s mind, being in a state of
| expectancy of a certain result, influences the mind of the subject to
exhibit indications correspondent to the result anticipated ?
I Against this latter theory, it may be urged that these indications are
| too decided in character and particular in detail to arise from a general
state of expectancy on the part of the operator. A. J. Smart,
Cardiff.
THE EASTERN QUESTION.
Sir,—Among many spiritual experiences of R. H. F. Rippen (author
of Victor)- related in the fifth volume of the Spiritual Magazine, is the
| following:—“-Since beginning to write this narrative, I have dreamed
| that in some future period there would be another war between Austria,
Russia, and Turkey; I saw a terrible battle fought, but I am not aware
of the result.” W.
FORGETFULNESS PERHAPS?
Sir,—Dr. Sexton lectured here last night under the auspices of the
Young Men’s Christian Association, on “Twenty Years’ Experience of
Scepticism and Sceptics.” The powerful and indefatigable exponent of
Spiritualism embraced the opportunity of not saying one word on the.
subject of modern spiritual phenomena, and their influence on his
thoughts. .s F. N. Broderick.
Hyde, Isle of Wight. , 
MR. WILLIAM LAWRENCE,
Sir,—Having been for some time a disbeliever in the mediumship of
Mr. W. Lawrence, I had an opportunity last Thursday to put him to
the test, at a circle in a friend’s house. The result has been that, in
justice to Mr. Lawrence, I withdraw my former opinion. As an account
of the matters witnessed would be rather long for publication, suffice it
to state, that we sewed both sleeves of his coat (his arms, of course,
being in them) together, behind his back; then sewed his coat up in
front; an overcoat was thrown over all, and a large comforter round his
neck. • He was placed in a chair in one corner of the room, closely
108
THE SPIKITUALIST.
March 2, 1877.
%
guarded by myself and Mr. Elson ; we, too, having secured any
accomplices that we expected might have been there. Then the best
phenomena I ever witnessed were produced.
Looking to the fact that this was in a private room, with no platform
or cabinet, and that it was quite an accidental meeting on my part, I
must say that it gave us all great satisfaction. J. Cain.
142, Burdett-road, London, February 26th.
[This letter has also appended to it the names of •witnesses—J. Elson,
Commercial-road, E.; Sarah Price, Commercial.road, E.; S. Buckle, Jamaioa-
etreet, Stepney, E.; S. Ayers, 45, Jubilee-street, Stepney, E.]
MASSES.
Sir,—The letter of “ Lynx ” involves several points of theology and
law, which are rather beside discussion in your columns.
Let me tell him, therefore, that no Roman Catholic priest, who may
receive money from members of his congregation (or even others)
undertakes a contract to relieve from the pains of purgatory any individual
soul (whether “ friend or relative ”) or others, who is dead. He merely
contracts to offer the Adorable Sacrifice of the body and blood of our
Lord Jesus Christ, for the dead in general, with special mention sub voce
under the prayer memento etiamt or even (under episcopal license) by the
use of a particular collect, for the purpose of the intentions of those who
wish its being granted. The small fee which is often paid does not cover
the expense of candles.
And those priests (who are many) who say the same prayers without
the receipt of money, exercise their supernatural privilege without
fear of a second Elizabethan persecution being directed against them.
Reference to the rules of many orders which carry out the Maccabsean
principle, “ It is a holy and just thought to pray for the dead,’’ may
take up your space. I could prove these at my leisure. The ideal
case of “ Auxilius,” put as the 36th in Pontas’ Dictionnaire de Cas de
Conscience, vol. ii. p. 153, may be taken as an example of the whole
series of cases which imagination may adduce. I quote the 1847 edition
in 4to, as it is well known and conveniently accessible to many. But as
thousands of men in England are now associated with each other, under
the confraternity of the “ Bona Mors," to attend the prayers for a
happy death, such prosecution as “Lynx” suggests may be commenced
with lay, and not with clerical victims.
It would be idle to argue that any layman, who at the close of
Complin repeats the words “ In manwtuas, Domine, oommendo spiritum
meum ” should be guilty of a criminal offence. A Papist.
THE DEFENCE COMMITTEE VERSUS THE NEWSPAPERS.
Sir,—I venture to inquire through your columns, whether or not it is
within the province of the Defence Committee to take some steps for
the moral defence of Dr. Slade and of other mediums, about whom the
most false and extravagant reports are in circulation, in relation to the
recent “ police protection” of scientific investigators !
Through the monstrously one-sided statements of the papers, it is
currently believed, for example, that Dr. Slade is only feigning illness,
and that (to use the popular phrase) , he has “ bolted.”
A brief, but extensive, contradiction of these and similar falsities
through the public press, or in any other efficient manner, would con¬
stitute a “defence” morally, of perhaps more significance than any
merely legal victory; would show the unreliability of the newspapers
in reference to the controversy; and would, therefore, be a legitimate
appropriation of some of the Defence Fund.
I would remind you, sir, that the Spiritualistic journals can hardly
be said to reach the community at large, and that no amount of “ telling
each other” the facts by Spiritualists will avail as a means of dis¬
abusing the public mind. William Yolokman.
43, Yictoria-road, Kensington, W.
FREEDOM PROMOTED BY ORGANISATION.
Sir,—Perhaps the circumstance that organisation so greatly promotes
freedom is one of the strongest arguments in favour of co-operation
among Spiritualists, next to the fundamental principle that it is a moral
and religious duty to unite rather than to quarrel, to promote order rather
than anarchy. “ Taxation without representation ” is a principle no wise
man will admit to be good, hence the necessity for union, that those who
subscribe funds shall have a voice and a vote in their expenditure, and
shall receive properly audited and published accounts. Those who
speak of the despotic priestly organisations of the past, rather than the
temperance and other useful organisations of the present, omit to state
that the more ancient corporations did not rest upon the anti-tyrannical
foundations of vote by ballot and voluntary subscriptions, whereby
every member can withdraw at once if the managers elected by himself
pursue a line of action which he thinks to be wrong. Observer.
MR. WILLIAMS’S SEANCES.
Sir,—I was present at a remarkable seance with Mr. Williams on
Saturday. The power was abundant, and the results very striking.
Four very distinct spirit voices conversed with us, and three hands, of
separate characteristics as to shape, size, and temperature, gave me
every opportunity of examining them. The full form of John King
was very plain, and his rising to the ceiling, and sinking till his lamp
rested on the floor, was more distinctly shown than I have ever before
seen it.
' I need not detail to your readers the familiar phenomena of these
seances. My special object in writing to you is to ask for space to
appeal to Spiritualists to support mediums at the present juncture.
The recent persecution has made investigators afraid of meddling with
the subject. They are fair-weather birds at best, and are always ready
to take fright. So they have retired for a time, and, when the storm is
past, they will come again to poke and to pry, and to say, “ How
curious! f Spiritualists, as a rule, do not need the evidence that open
circles furnish. They have satisfied themselves, and are content. So
it comes to pass that between two stools the poor medium comes to the
ground. I was grieved to find how scantily Mr. Williams’s seances
are attended. And it is in the belief that thoughtlessness frequently
causes this neglect that I appeal to Spiritualists to remove this blot.
Now is the very time when mediums need support, and they must
have it from Spiritualists. Surely those who have means might engage
public mediums for private investigation, and so secure to them a
regular income on which they can count. Surely, too, Spiritualists
might agree among themselves to secure a certain and steady attend¬
ance at Mr. Williams’s Saturday seances. One cannot always go, buj;
a little planning would secure a fair muster. The fact of strangers
being excluded will raise the character of the manifestations, and make
them more deserving of attention, M« A. (Oxon.)
February 25th, 1877.
Several letters are kept over this week for want of space.
Mr. J. M. Peebles has left San Francisco for Australia on another
tour round the world, to observe the progress of Spiritualism in various
countries.
The National Association Soiree.—The usual monthly soiree of
the National Association of Spiritualists will be held on Wednesday
next, the 7th inst. Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, who has so freely devoted
her literary talents to the benefit of the Liverpool Spiritualist Society,
has kindly promised to give a recitation and reading from the poets.
As Mrs. Nosworthy has another engagement that evening, her read¬
ing will commence at 8 o’clock precisely. The musical programme
announces a set of Original Waltzes by Mrs. T. H. Edmands, copies of
which will be sold for the benefit of the Association. A Gavotte,
composed by Mr. J. N. T. Martheze, is also on the programme, besides
some part singing and pianoforte music by Miss Withall’s choir.
Spiritualism in Manchester.—Mr. Mahony, of Birmingham, deli¬
vered, on Sunday afternoon, Feb. 18th, in the Spiritualists’ meeting
room, Manchester, a discourse on the “Philosophy of Spiritualism.”
He began by defining the philosophy of Spiritualism as the outcome of
the large range of manifestations, especially in our time, of the nature
of spirit, a knowledge of which had been obtained by long years of
observation and study. This philosophy had a basis as full in its
promise and potency as any the world had ever seen. There were very
many men in the orthodox world who were trying all they could to
redeem man, and he thought and spoke kindly of their efforts; but the
spiritual philosophy was much superior to theirs, which it sought to
supersede in its purity of design and endeavour, and by convincing man
he must be to a great extent his own saviour, and work out his redemp¬
tion, and elevate himself by his own exertions. This philosophy was
based upon human experience, and upon inspiration given to different
peoples in all ages. The groundwork on which the Bible rested existed
now, and had existed before the Bible was written; the book was full of
Spiritualism, but forms and ceremonies had shrouded spirituality from
sight. Humanity needed inspiration, and was never left without it.
Spiritualism in Dalston.—Mr. E. W. Wallis, of 15, St. Peter’^j
road, Mile-end, visited the rooms of the Dalston Association of In¬
quirers into Spiritualism, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, on
Thursday evening last week, when an interesting trance discourse, upon
“Experiences in Spirit Life,” was given through his mediumship. In
the course of the address it was stated that the present movement of
modern Spiritualism was discussed and influenced by a number of
spirits, who had organised a plan for demonstrating the existence of a
future life on a more universal scale than had hitherto been attempted,
so that the experience of spirit action might not be restricted to a few,
but might be distributed over the whole world. The more general
diffusion of spiritual gifts, it was said, would tend to prevent the
recipients of inspiration from being deified, as in former times, and, as
the conditions became better understood, the communicating spirits
would be enabled to give clearer communications on spiritual matters.
At the close of the discourse, which was listened to with interest by the
meeting, questions from different members were answered, and, after
a vote of thanks had been unanimously accorded to Mr. Wallis for his
friendly visit to the Association, the proceedings closed.
The Liverpool Psychological Society.—On Sunday evening last,
February 25th, Dr. William Hitchman, President of the Liverpool
Psychological Society, delivered an address on “The Liturgy of the
Human Race; or, the Natural History of the Established Religious
Formulas of all Nations.” He pointed out that the original worship,
whether public or private, of all known primitive peoples, was a rude
unspiritual polytheism. Its crude doctrines had no sort of relation to
morality, but authorised such barbarous customs as human sacrifices,
cannibalism, the assassination of. twins, and other savage ordeals.
Caribs, Mexicans, Peruvians, and several American tribes have an
intensity of religious feeling, and at their sacred festivals observe
protracted fastings and self-abnegation to such an extent that they
often become ecstatic and entranced, having celestial gorgeous visions,
in which they are said to confer with gods. The belief in spirits
existed, he said, among all races of men of which anthropologists have
attained scientific acquaintance. At the same time, religious faith,
unless duly governed by philosophical knowledge, had almost always
degenerated into blind superstition, and thus retarded, the progress of
mankind by establishing a liturgy of false dogmas as fixed spiritual
principles, and investing the most absurd doctrines with a halo of
divinity, in order to render them unassailable. The lecturer expressed
a hope that the time was not far distant when the ministry of angels,
in the providence of God, and the moral and religious elevation of
man, shall unite each bright and beautiful hymn, prayer, and maxim,
in one magnificent liturgy of the human race, the practical spirituality
of which shall realise the devout aspiration of a noble poet—
• Heroic virtue did his actions guide,
And he the substance, not the appearance chose.
March 2, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOG-Y,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing tlie English and American Literature of Spirit-
ualism, obtainable of W, H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging 'the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to. scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred RusseE WaUace, F.R.G-.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on-Miracles." It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE'; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6cL
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred.. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,[also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an aUeged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F, G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttletbn. 2 Vdls., crown 8vo., 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and 'America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Ahti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science: the Spiriti and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and .the Spirit. 12mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. 6<L
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
. 7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the ’early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of ajtrumpeiy
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. Od. >
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
kaa collection of beautiful poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book censlsts of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fld.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORMIMIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS ; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Oweri.
3s. 6d. '
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony Of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE. ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILIT Y, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. 6d.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. 6s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. 6d.
FLASELES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. 6d.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. BourchierWrey Saville, M.A. 4s. 6d.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. 6d.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, 6d.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. 6s.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. 6d.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. 6s.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. 6d.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. 6s.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. 6d.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. -lames Smith,
formerly Editor of the "Family Herald.” (2Vois.j lOsi
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
he Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
" „ II.
„ HI.
„ IV. ,
,. V. „ . •
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions frOm the^P
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence , {
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims , ,
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
ople
*. <?.
15 C
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
6 0
7 6
2 0
3 6
3 6
7 6
3 6
I 7 6
2 6
3 6
7 6
. 6 0
7 6
7 6
6 0
! 6 0
2 6
. 3 0
. 7 6
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. 6d.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 4s.
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 21 o
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spieitualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . ..50
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms). (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .-76
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A„ Trim Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
•With Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hindl; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S’anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .20
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . • ! . . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B. A. . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
, Arabic, by George Sale . . . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools' . , , . 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE-
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Sgear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman ot Educatipn and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE .OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds »ys of
this little pamphlet: “ There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” 6d.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. 6d.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young 6d.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. 6d.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning, fld.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr E T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
March 2, 1877,
Lately published, in two volumes, 8vo, cloth, price 28s.
PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE on the
NATURE and CONSTITUTION of MAN. By Gbobge
G. Harris, LL.D., F.S.A., Barrister-at-law, Vice-President of
the Psychological Society, and of the Anthropological Institute
and Author'of “The Theory of the Arts,” “Civilisatioh con¬
sidered as a Science,” &c.
This work embraces a.comprehensive and complete survey
of the nature and constitution of man, physical, moral, and
intellectual, exhibiting, moreover, the mutual connection and
dependence ■ of each branch. Topics connected with the
spiritual being, and the leading opinions on this subject,
including the nature, essence, properties, and mode of opera¬
tion of the soul; the alliance between matter and spirit;
reason and instinct, their affinity and diversity, more espe¬
cially, are here discussed; and.a new theory is propounded of
our intellectual system, as also respecting the distribution,
mode of action, discipline, and cultivation of the mental
faculties.
Eminent authorities on certain of the subjects here embraced,
among them some distinguished writers on psychology, physio¬
logy and natural history, foreign as well as English, have been
in correspondence with, and have been consulted by the
author, by several of whom valuable notes, which will be read
with much interest, on various and important controverted
points, have been contributed.
“ The writer who undertakes a work like this, requires at
once a comprehensive intellect, a widespread reading and
experience, an unprejudiced mind, and almost superhuman
industry. All these qualities appear to be combined in Mr.
Harris.”—Westminster Review.
“A treatise so ambitious and comprehensive in subject and
scope, demands great natural powers, immense research,
patient meditation, and assimilation of the labours of others
All these requisites Mr. Harris brings to his task. His work
proves that a searching inquiry into man’s nature is alike
independent of two extremes, the negation of Atheism, and
theological intolerance. A perusal will lead every man of
faith to inquire more, and every man of science to believe
more.—Hour.
“ This work is one of considerable value, and of deep interest.
Indeed, it is somewhat difficult to lay it down when you have
once become absorbed by its contents. We moreover venture
to assert that it is impossible to read a single chapter of the
book without being struck with the vast array of authorities,
ancient and modern, that have been read or consulted, the
wide and varied information sought or obtained, and the
original thought displayed in dealing with its deeply interesting
and abstruse objects of research,”—John Bull.
“ Dr. Harris has evidently read the writings of both ancient
and modern anthropologists and philosophers with care; and
the work will always be valuable as indicative of deep re¬
search, and a sound, though diffuse, method of treating the
subject. Every quality and style of thought are represented
by the gentlemen who have contributed to the notes, which
range from the thoughs of Mr. Gladstone and Dr. Newman to
those of Sir John Lubbock."—Public Opinion.
“ This is a most elaborate and learned production, and
testifies on the part of its author his immense research and
great ingenuity. It is, without the name, an Encyclopsedia
of man. Dr. Harris’s work is very valuable as a great collec
tion of facts, most of them thoroughly sifted by himself, and
many of them having been subjected to the correction of
acknowledged authorities.”—Dundee Advertiser.
“ The present work is the first attempt of the kind; and Dr.
Harris deserves praise for the origin and completion of his
most laborious performance. In these frivolous days, such
books and such authors are rare. Altogether, it is a produc¬
tion highly creditable to. the intelligence and industry of the
author, and one which no one interested in the subject on
which he writes can read without profit.”—Literary World.
“We have probably quoted enough from this very thought¬
ful and suggestive work to induce the many members of the
Institute who are interested in the psychological treatment of
the question, to seek pleasure and instruction in its pages.
Added value is given to it by the interesting circumstance
that the proof sheets of several portions were submitted to
learned friends of the author—such as Sir John Lubbock, Dr.
Richardson, Dr. Newman, and many others—and have been
enriched by their comments.”—/<wma£ of the Anthropological
nstitute.
London: George Bell & SONS, York-street, Oovent-garden.
Bv Royal Letters Patent
| KRIKE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR,
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
gradeful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.  
Published at 7s. Gd. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occorring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
s&id:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we eannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustotned ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
PubjisRed by Longmans at 7s. Gd. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postag ''4d, Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description oj Manifestations
recently produced! hy Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Yarley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
EFLEXIONEN AUS HER GEISTER-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers, Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Josefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexander Gasse. London:
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found'in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands ip contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why.. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is ’under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” , Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “ Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the .failings of humanity.
« THE SPIRITUALIST” FUND.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION FOR 1877 AND 1878.
£ s. d.
Le Comte de Bullet        50 0 0
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq   , 20 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq 20 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq,  15 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq.      10 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq  10 0 0
N. F. Dawe, Esq  io 0 0
G. C. Joad, Esq      10 0 0
The Hon. A. Aksakof   10 0 0
J.’M. Gully, Esq., M.D ...i.10 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  10 0 0
M. R. I    10 0 0
James Mylne, Esq  10 0 0
X        10 0 0
B. ...,      6 6 0
C. T    5' 5 0
George Sutherland, Esq    5 5 0
T. E. Partridge, Esq  5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq  5 0 0
The Countess of Caithness  5 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun  5 0 0
Mrs. E. Dixon  2 2 0
The Rev. W. Whitear   2 2 0
Dr. Baikie        2 2 0
Miss Whitear   2 2 O
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., M.R.I   2 2 0
Mrs. Lowe  .’.    2 2 0
S. J. H.   2 2 0
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S  2 2 0
W. C. Pickersgill, Esq.  2 0 0
W.        2 0 0
G. V.     2 0 0
S. T. Speer, Esq., M.D      2 0 0
W. M. Buchanan, Esq., M.D  2 0 0
A. Yacher, Esq.   .Y.  * 200
Colonel Olcott      2 0 0
The Baroness von Vay    1 10 0
George Lee, Esq    110
G. R. Tapp, Esq  110
Mrs. Maltby    110
B. W. Pycock, Esq  110
Mrs. Nosworthy    110
C. T. Hook, Esq  i 1 o
Major Menars  110
A. Glen dinning, Esq    110
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S    110
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.TeLE  110
Mrs. Hennings        110
Dr. George Wyld   110
Miss Allen      110
W. P. Adshead, Esq.  110
John Mould, Esq  110
J. P. Turner, Esq   1 1 o
J. T. Dodd, Esq   110
Mrs. Jeffreys   110
Miss Douglas     10 0
John Scott, Esq    10 0
J. C. Ferguson, Esq  10 0
A. O. Swinton, Esq    10 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   l o 0
Mrs. Tyndall   10 0
Lieut.-Col. Jacoby  10 0
G. F. Green, Esq     0 10 6
Mrs. E. K. Beeby       0 10 6
R. Gatling    0 10 6
J. Hare, Esq    0 10 0
A Friend  0 10 0
A Friend  ;     0 10 0
Miss Pearce.......      0 5 0
J. T. M            0 5 0
Subscriptions to this Fund should be remitted to W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. AMonthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly.—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office. 
Price 7s, Gd., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the. rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby And Rich, London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
^Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Half-a-
'-J ciown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as , one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“The Spiritualist” is-a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London: and.orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach thu
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
Do notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “The Spiritualist” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E W. Allen’s, 1,'Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridoe & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E. W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
