AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE
[REGISTEBED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 97.—(Vol. V.—No. 1.) LONDON: JULY 3j 1874. Published Weekly; Price Twopence-
(Contents.
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries. No. III. ... |  ... ...   1
Louise Latoau and the Stigmata  ... ...   2
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory on the Spiritual Difficulties of the Clergy ... 3
“London Society" on Materialised Spirit Forms:—Miss Showers and
Florence Maple seen at the same time; Mr. H. M. Dunphy on Mate¬
rialised Spirit Forms ... .r.   ... •••   *  ^
Mr. Epes Sargent on the Progress of Spiritualism   5
Notes on Church of England Doctrines. No. If. By Anonymous Critics 6
Spiritualism in Bradford       ... 7
Spiritualism in Dundee ...‘ ...   ...   7
Poetry:—Bunyan at Bedford...   ... ... ... 8
Correspondence:—The Teachings of Spiritualism, 8; Conceivability as
a Criterion of Truth, 9; Materialised Spirit Forms, 9; a Test Seance
in Manchester, 10; Messrs. Maskelyne and Cook’s Exhibitions, 10;
Extraordinary Materialisation Phenomena in Newcastle, 11; Mr.
Cogman’s Soiree   ;  ... ... ...   12
Answers to Correspondents    12
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism and Social Reform Movements, 6; The
Queen’s English, 7; Victor Hugo on Spirit Life   7
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by'undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPlItITUALISTS.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing to
become affiliated, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow, London, E., of whom
copies of the Constitution and Rules may be had upon application.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
spiritualists;
THE 1874 CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
Will be held in London (Lawson’s Rooms, 145-, Gower-street), from the
4th to the 7th of August.
GENERAL PROGRAMME.
Tuesday, August Mh.—Opening Soiree. Tea at 6 o’clock. Chairman’s
address on detailed arrangements of conference at 8 o'clock.
Wednesday, August 5th.—First sessions of conference, 10 a m. to 1 p.m.
Second sessions 3 p.m. to 5.30 p m. Subjects for consideration: “ Organi¬
sation and the Physical Phenomena.”
Thursiay, August 6th.—Third and fourth session at same hours. Sub¬
jects: Direct Voice, Writing and Painting; Inspirational and Trance
Speaking ; Spirit Photogiaphy; the Itfluence of Spiritualism on Humanity
—Past, Present, and Future.
Friday, August 1th.—Public Meetings at 3 and 6'30 at the Crystal Palace.
On the evenings of Wednesday and Thursday arrangements will be made
as far as practicable for the bolding of seances for the different classes of
phenomena, and for the taking of spirit photographs.
Terms of Admission: Soirees—Members tickets, Is. each; non-members.
Is. 6d. Conference and Crystal Palace Meetings, members free upon pre¬
sentation f of their card of membership; non-members Is. to each session, or
to each public meeting, or by 2s. 6d. ticket to the entire course. Non-mem¬
bers purchasing two 2 s. 6d. tickets will have the privilege of nominating a
person to be a member of the Association until the end of the current year.
The Secretaries will be in attendance at the soiree for the purpose of re¬
cording the application of persons properly introduced to become members
of the Association. These, upon payment of the Members subscription, will
be entitled to admission to the Conference and Crystal Palace Meetings
free.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1874.
President.—James Wason, Esq. ' Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Guy.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd
Mr. Bretherton.
Mr. Riece.
Mr. Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr. Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.
| Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
THE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST AND FREE
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. Tobehadof W. H. Terry, 9G, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
PERSONS willing to CONTRIBUTE PAPERS on the
following subjectsareinvited to send their names to A. Jor, Esq., 28,
James-street, Buckingham Gate.
1. The best means to be employed by the Association in promoting the
organisation of Spiritualists.
2. The philosophy and purpose of physical manifestaticns.
3. I he best conditions (mental, physical and social), for evolving physical
manifestations.
4. The “Direct" Voice, Writing and Painting.
5. Inspirational and trance speaking.
6. On Spirit Photography.
7. The influence of Spiritualism on Humanity, Past, Present, and
Future.
The papers must be sent to A. Joy, Esq., not later than Friday, the 31st
July. All accepted papers to remain the property of the Association, un-
le:s specially agreed otherwise. Non-members contributing accepted
papers will be elected Honorary Members for the remainder of the current
year.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
ii
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 3, 1874,
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A MEETING- of the'active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consolidation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are:—
1. Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling.-.principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tem., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Riohabd Fitton, Secretary pro tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
TRUBNER AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS.
THE HONEYMOON. Remembrance of a Bridal Tour through Scotland.
By the Count de Medina Pomar. Now ready. In two vols., Crown 8vo
Price 21s.
MR. ROBERT DALE OWEN’S WORKS.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD. With
Narrative Illustrations. An enlarged English Copyright Edition,
Post 8vo., p.p. 412, cloth, 7s. 6d.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS WORLD AND THE
NEXT. With Illustrative Narrations. Crown 8vo., pp. 456, doth, 9s.
THREADING MY WAY: Twenty-Seven Years of Autobiography. Crown
8vo., pp. 344, cloth, 7s. 6d.
“ A very pleasant little book.’’—Saturday lieoiew.
THE CREED OF CHRISTENDOM its Foundations contrasted with its
Superstructure By W. R. Greg. Third Edition. With a ne y Intro¬
duction. Two Vols., crown 8vo, pp. 272 and 290, cloth, 15s.
ENIGMAS OF LIFE. By W. R. Greg. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo., pp. xxi.—
308, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Contents:—Realizable Ideals—Malthus Notwithstanding—Non-Surviva
of the Fittest—Limits and Directions of Human Development—The Sig¬
nificance of Life—De Profundis—Elsewhere—Appendix.
THE DESTINY OF MAN, The Storm King, and other Poems. By
Frederick Griffin. Fcap. 8vo., pp. vi. and 90, cloth, 2s. 6d.
London: Trubner & Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
Committee.
Mrs.' Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librurian.~'M.v. 3. Gain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
ERY soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
into England the Subject attracted attention in 'Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed-to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30. Parkfleld-street, Islington.
NEWCASTLE SOCIETY
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
Presidents.
Mr. F. Cowper. | Mr. C. Hunt.
Treasurer.—Mr. Whitley.
Librarian.—Mr. Maynard, 103, Lisson-grove.
Secretary.
Mr. C. White, 4, Gray-street, Manchester-square, W.
The Membership Subscription is Is. per Quarter, which admits to full
fellowship, including use of books from the Progressive Library. Seances
are held weekly, to afford members an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the Phenomena. Members are assisted in the formation of new
circles. A public meeting is held every Wednesday evening at the
Hall of Progress, 90, Church-street, Paddington, at 8 o’clock.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions:—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospeetua
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
A- M. GREENE, lion. Secretary.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
TVeaswra’.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
  Hon. Sec.—Mrs. Lowb (Louisa).
eor
PROMOTING ENQUIRY INTO MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
OLD FREEMASON’S HALL
(weir’s court),
NEWGATE STREET, NE WOASTLE-ON-TYNE.
President.—Mr. Armstrong.
Treasurer.—Mr. John Miller. Secretary.—Mr. F. Pickup.
Seances are held for Members and Friends on Sunday Evenings, doors
open at 6.30, to commence at 7; and on Tuesday and Thursday evenings,
doors open at 7.30, to commence at 8.
On no account will anyone be admitted after the time announced for
commencing the meetings, except on special occasions, when permission
must be obtained from the sitters who form the circle at the time of
application.
Tickets of Admission may be had of the Committee.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
E MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
TI> EYUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
jL\j fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every mon’h. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
EVERY THURSDAY MORNING
“THE PIONEER OF PROGRESS,
A Weekly Record of Spiritualism, Scientidc and Ethical.
And contains articles by Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, Dr. Sexton, “Fritz.”
Rev. Maurice Davies, T. H. Noyes, Esq., and others, together with full
reports of Lectures delivered in London, notes of Seances, and other
general information.
16 PAGES—ONE PENNY.
F. Pitman, 20, Paternoster-row, London, E.C., and can be ordered of any
bookseller.
REWARD.—MASKELYNE & COOKE.
AN EXPOSURE
OF THE FALSENESS OF THEIR PRETENSIONS.
TO VENDORS OF SPIRITUAL PERIODICALS.—
Contents Bills of every number of The Spiritualist, for exhibition in
shop windows and at public meetings, may now be obtained weekly, on
application. Newsvendors are each requested to order one with their
weekly supply of papers.—London, E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Mariarlane,
E.U 
A WIDOW LADY seeks a Comfortable Home in a
Gentleman’s Family where she could render her services valuable
in any P pitioa of Trust; she is an Experienced-Housekeeper, and has
been Companion to a Lady. References exchanged. Adiress H., care of
T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.O.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
By ALGERNON JOY, M.I.O.E. (Iota).
London: E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane.
Price One Penny. 
INSCRUTABLE are the laws that govern the incidence of
some of the greatest calami'ies.—A RAILWAY ACCIDENT is, to
any particular person a (theoretically) remote contingency, but it may
happen, as a matter of fact, the very next journey undertaken. The risk,
in a pecuniary sense, may now be covered FOR LIFE by a single" small
payment.—Apply tor prospectis of the
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE COMPANY,
Limited,
to
THE MANAGER, 42, POULTRY, LONDON, E.C.
or to
MR. THOMAS BUS TON, AGENT, 12, HIGH-STREET, BOW
LONDON, E.
jl Jjjmrit $1} tip mb sff ^{tujiiMfi$m+
VOJLUJVIE FIVE. JHUjVlBEF^ OJME.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 3rd, 1874.
Cfre SpinttialisI y^pprl:
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Beduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to he addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous "Wednesday morning. All
orders -for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of “ The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always he infoi'med of such impediments and irregulari-
t ies, and copies can then he ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader,.241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Bichard Eoberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTBALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Bussell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 184, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 178, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. B. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118. Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Bichmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Biley, High-street.
Or 27ie Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order., The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 bet ween most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
TOIEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects :—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
No. III.
Spibitualism in Holland seems to differ from that in
Belgium, and to exhibit special features in accordance
with the difference of character in the natives of each
country. Belgian Spiritualism is purely spirite, or
according to Kardec; physical manifestations, unless
healing power be included under this head, are almost
unknown. A desire to witness the marvels of English
and American mediumship is, however, beginning to
find expression in the Belgian Spiritist organ, and it is
probable that this autumn arrangements will be made:
with an English physical medium for a visit to Liege
and Brussels.
In Holland, both Spiritualism and Spiritism have
their followers. At Amsterdam and Arnheim the
latter doctrine is most in favour; at the Hague,
Spiritualism carries the day. The chief society here
dates from the year 1859, and was founded by Major
Revius, who bravely defended the cause from that time
until his death in 1872. M. A. I. Riko, to whom we
are indebted for the above particulars, thus writes of
this gentleman : “ His memory is blessed by all who
knew him; even his opponents esteemed him highly.”
M. Riko has himself done much to advance the cause
of Spiritualism at the Hague by inviting Mr. Williams
to his own house, and giving many persons the oppor¬
tunity of witnessing his mediumship. Mr, Williams’s
visit left lasting effects, for we find since he was last at
the Hague other physical mediums have begun to de-
velope there. At Leyden and Utrecht, both University
towns, circles have been formed, and the students are
among the most earnest investigators; professors,
doctors in various branches of science, advocates, en¬
gineers, and army officers, are members of the circles.
It would seem that nowhere are old fogeyism and the
fear of ridicule so much in the ascendant as in re¬
spectable London society. As to our universities, an
Oxford friend, whom we questioned lately as to whether
any interest in Spiritualism had shown itself among
the present race of undergraduates, replied : “ I believe
not; but, in any case, it would probably be unknown
to one not belonging to their clique; the subject is so
entirely opposed to the views of the leading professors
there.” It is not at Oxford that the first chair of
spiritual or psychical science will find an endowment.
In Germany we observe a division of forces similar
to that which exists in Holland. The scientific Spirit¬
ualists have their centre in Leipsic, and are represented
by the Spiritualist-rationalistic Journal and Psychic
Studies. The severely critical, almost sceptical tone of
the latter is distinctly evident in the current number,
especially in an article on Dr. Speer’s letter to the
Spiritualist (January 19, 1874), in which satisfactory
proofs of spirit identity are supposed to be furnished.
'■Dr. Wittig would have been better satisfied if Dr.
2
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 3, 1874.
Speer had insisted that Henry Leaves should he made
to produce the lost music to Milton’s Gcmus, "which the
communicating spirit asserted had been composed by
him. Dr. Wittig further asks why it should be
assumed that Dr. Speer’s son is under the guidance of
musical spirits rather than that he is possessed of
natural genius, which has received an unusually early
development?
In like manner this mailed warrior challenges the
Baroness v. Vay, before entering the lists with him, to
produce,, where it is possible, verification of the
psychometric experiments published in her Studies
from the Spirit World.
The giant labours of Dr. Wittig, sole translator of
the works of A. J. Davis into German, as well as of R.
Dale Owen’s Debatable Land, and of numerous writings
by Mr. Crookes, Dr. Carpenter, and A/R. "Wallace, and
otherwise an unceasing worker on the scientific side of
Spiritualism in Germany, entitle him to be heard with
respect. Dr. Maximilian Perty, a Professor at Berne,
author of Mystic Phenomena &nd The Hidden Life of
the Spirit, also belongs to this school.
The followers of the Spiritist doctrine have their
head-quarters in Pesth and Yienna. At Pesth there is
a large “Society of Spiritual Inquirers” {Geisti-
ger Forscher), who have publicly “ declared,’’ as the
basis of their teaching, the work “ Spirit, Porce,
Matter,” given through the hand of the medium
Adelma v. Yay. Every month this society publishes a
pamphlet under the title of Refiexionen, containing the
utterances given through the principal mediums at
its public circles. These have principally a religious
and instructive tendency, and are, on the whole,
sufficiently edifying. The Baroness v. Yay has herself
told us, that during twelve j ears of mediumship she has
never seen one physical manifestation beyond slight
raps and table movements.
The reincarnation theory is accepted both in Pesth
and Yienna as a fundamental principle of spiritual
teaching.
LOUISE LATEAU AND THE STIGMATA.
The last piece of “ bravoure ” of this German Yeuillot
at present making the round of the Press, is so char¬
acteristic of Ultramontanism that I think it incumbent
on me to communicate it to you. Eor some time lately
a young girl named Louise Lateau has created quite a
sensation in Belgium and the provinces of Prussia. She
is said to be “ stigmatised,” and pretends in her mo¬
ments of ecstasy to see God in His glory. (Under the
term “ stigmatisation ” the Catholic Church understands
the miraculous peculiarity of persons bearing on their
own body the five principal wounds of Our Saviour, and
bleeding from them on certain days.) Bois d’Haine, the
village in which Louise Lateau lives, is now the place
of pilgrimage for many pious persons coming from
Holland, Germany, and Belgium, to witness with their
own eyes the performance of the miracle. Majunke,
being some time since in Treves on a visit to his con¬
stituents, made also a call upon Louise Lateau, and re¬
mained several days in Bois d’Haine, where he also met
with Bishop Mermillod, and Lefevre, a medical profes¬
sor at the University of Louvain. After his visit; Ma¬
junke gave a lecture on what he beheld, from the re¬
ports of which in Ultramontane papers the following
items are extracted:
“ Louise is a very simple girl; she has seen very
little of the world, and spent the greater part of her
life in a solitary country cottage. She daily receives
the Holy Sacrament, which is her only nourishment.
For two years she has neither eaten nor drunk anything
else. When she does not receive the Communion she
is seized with deadly faintness, so that even on Good
Friday she is allowed to partake of the Lord’s Supper.
Every morning at six o’clock she visits the church, at
some distance from her abode, except on Friday, when
the Holy Sacrament is brought to her. Last Friday it
was administered by the Yery Reverend the Bishop of
Tournai. I myself assisted. In the little room,
floored with bricks, we found everything prepared as
for a person dangerously ill. Louise was kneeling at
the table and bleeding profousely. The bleeding by
Louise Lateau begins at midnight on Thursday and ter¬
minates at midnight on Friday. First the forehead
bleeds, as when the crown of thorns pierced the head;
the blood streams from under the hair down the cheeks ;
and then the hands, side, and feet bleed from above and
below.” On the day Majunke was at Bois d’Haine
Louise Lateau took the Holy Sacrament almost
ravenously. “ In the afternoon, about 2 o’clock, she
fell into ecstasy. The Bishop of Tournai went to her
previously to see if, perhaps, in conversation she would
forget the time; but no—punctually at 2 o’clock she
became silent, and her eyes fixed. The Cure of the
village declared that Louise often during her excitement
saw apparitions. First she saw God in His glory, and
later on the sufferings of Christ, especially in the
last stages. Shortly before 3 o’clock Louise fell
to the ground, and at 3 she extended her hands.
Strangp to say, during these convulsions, when
the spirit is transported to other regions, it still
lives for the things surrounding the body. A conse¬
crated article, for instance, being placed in the imme¬
diate neighbourhood of Louise, a gentle smile was seen
to play on her features. Also during the prayers she
smiled at certain moments (fourteen of us were pre¬
sent, and the priests were praying): when the words
4 Gloria Patri,’ ‘ Misericordia,’ or 4 Misericors ’ were
uttered she smiled in a remarkable manner, no matter
if the prayer was delivered in the French, German, or
Hebrew; for in her ecstasy she understood all languages,
and consecrated or unconsecrated articles were imme¬
diately distinguished by her. Professor Lefevre con¬
vinced us by plunging a penknife into her extended
"hand that Louise was insensible to all laws of the
natural world; for the hand was not withdrawn nor
flinched, neither did any blood proceed from the place
penetrated. When during the prayers the names of
Jesus and Mary were mentioned, the upper part of the
body of Louise arose from the ground ; but this move¬
ment was no voluntary one, as generally the case; she
seemed to be borne up invisibly. On the Bishop utter¬
ing the words, 4 Oh, my Jesus, I kneel to Thee,’ she
turned round so quickly and fell down so suddenly
before the Bishop, that I and the Bishop were quite
concerned, fearing she was going to spring out of the
window. On the episcopal cross approaching her she
seized it. with her hands. At the termination of the
prayers she again fell down—or rather was invisibly
placed down, for by falling she would have wounded
herself on the pavement. Indeed” (states Majunke)
44 our language has not the proper word for expressing
the act of this prostration.
44 On the next morning, at six o’clock, although she
had lost so much blood on the previous day, Louise was
nevertheless in the church. I called again upon her.
i
July 3, 1874.
THE SPIJEUTUALIST.
3
On entering I found lier occupied with her sisters in
needlework. She offered me a chair, and was some¬
what reserved. Her face was rather pale, but seemed
transfigured. I said I was a priest from Germany,
where the Church had now so much to suffer, and
begged her to pray for me and the Catholics in Ger¬
many, and that I would remember her when offering
up mass. She replied, f Je vous remercie, monsieur,’
and nothing further. She has been so much visited by
theological and medical commissions, by men of learn¬
ing, princes, and distinguished personages, that she is
quite insensible to the external world • she receives no
presents whatever, and is living in very poor circum¬
stances. Among other trials, she was shut up for a
month without receiving the whole time the least
nourishment.” These are the words of Majunke lite¬
rally translated, and, to add to the force of his state¬
ment, he finished by declaring, “ All this I have wit¬
nessed with my own eyes ; so I found Louise Lateau.”
—The Hour, June 26th (Berlin Correspondent).
MRS. MAKDOUGALL GREGORY OH THE SPIRITUAL
DIFFICULTIES OF THE CLERGY.
The following characteristic correspondence on the
subject of Spiritualism, between Mrs. Makdougall Gre¬
gory, of 21, Green-street, Grosvehor-square, and a
clergyman whose name we have no permission to publish,
is of interest, and her arguments apply to many other
cases than the subjoined :—
Deak Mrs. Gregory,—Forgive mefor writing on such
wretched paper, I can find nothing else to-night. The
unprogressive one salutes you, as an old Roman would
have said. Progress is a grand thing if it be in the
right direction and rightly governed ; but if I want to
go from — to London and find that I have got into a
train for Exeter, it does not comfort me if the guard
tells me that we are making progress. Or if I find
myself in a train running down a steep incline, and the
break will not work, what I want is not progress, but
power to govern: the forces which are hurrying me to
smash. You, together with the whole body of the
Spiritualists, have made great progress in the last ten
years: whether that progress is in the right direction is
the question ; I have my own opinion on the subject,
but I need not write it, because you would say that I
know nothing about the matter.
I have a bad fit of lumbago, and cannot move about
much, so have been sitting over the fire with a pipe in
my mouth and your letter in my hand, dreaming about
Spiritualism and other uncanny matter.
Your letter is full of food for thought.
 will do good work, not because he is a Spirit¬
ualist or any other “ ist ” (Romanist, Methodist, Ra¬
tionalist, &c.), but because he (I believe) honestly tries
to serve his Master, and his Master will help him.
"Whether a man be a Spiritualist or not seems to me an
utterly unimportant matter, either as regards his prac¬
tical work in this life, or his prospect for the next, so
long as he does not allow his Spiritualism to drive him
away from one or two great fundamental truths.
You deal me hard measure in your letter.
1st. You judge me on my father’s report. How I
know that you think him to be utterly in error about
all matters connected with Spiritualism. Why, there¬
fore should you think him right in his estimate of my
opinions ?
You think me to be one of those who “ follow lead,”
and “ do not take the trouble to think for themselves.
A retarder of God’s work.” If you had said one who
in much weakness tried to help, but often miserably
failed, I should have most readily agreed with you.
But “ retarder ” I don’t like, because I believe that
certain definite results happen to p retarders ” and I
don’t like to think of myself as standing in danger of
those results. But it is possible that by “ God’s work”
you mean Spiritualism. If so, I must say that I take a
broader view of God’s work; Spiritualism may be a
part, but it is a very small part of that infinite work.
With regard to “ following lead, and not thinking for
myself,” my own opinion is that my weakness-lies the
other way. But a man’s judgment of himself is not
worth much.
On the general question of thinking for one’s self, may
I suggest that in many cases it is the most dangerous thing
one can do. Thought leads to conclusions, and
sometimes to action. Unless people have been trained
to think accurately their conclusions will generally be
wrong. A man who is ill calls his doctor, a man who
wants to make his will sends for his lawyer. Heaven
help the man who thinks and acts for himself in either
of these cases.
You never will give me credit for knowing anything
about Spiritualism. But I began to take in the
Spiritual Magazine more than ten years ago. I read
it very carefully, but I confess I did not go on taking it
long. Since that time I have studied trance revelations,
some of which I got from you; I have listened to
Emma Hardinge, and most carefully read her lectures ;
and I have sat at the feet of the seer of Poughkeepsie.
I have been much astonished; the trance revelations
are marvellous. Miss Hardinge and the seer of Pough¬
keepsie are inimitable, but before I would accept their
teaching I must go through a process which would be
both difficult and painful. I must bring myself to believe
that my whole education is not only useless, but mis¬
chievously wrong; that logical reasoning, moral philo¬
sophy, and physical science are dangerous delusions;
that the science of theology is a snare for the unwary ;
that all the great men whose names I have been accus¬
tomed to revere, and before whose intellects I have
bowed, were little better than idiots, and that all the
knowledge and experience which hav been handed down
to us for centuries is naught. I cannot bring myself to
attempt this most painful process, unless I see the very
strongest reasons for it. I cannot yet see any such
reasons, and I must therefore sign myself-—Your most
unprogtessive but sincere well wisher,   
To this Mrs. Gregory replied thus :—
Dear —: As you will see by the date of thisr.~I
have taken some time to think over your suggestive
letter of the 10th inst., which T frankly admit to be a
very sensible reply from your standpoint, though any¬
thing but satisfactory from mine.
Your remarks presuppose that the proofs of Divine
revelation terminated at a definite period, and have been
fully embodied for all time, in the sacred canon, whereas
I believe that God is the same yesterday, to-day, and
for ever, being as willing and able to communicate
with His beloved children by the mouths of His pro¬
phets now, as in the most favoured ages of antiquity.
There is therefore, to my mind, no a priori impossi-,
bility in Spiritualism, and all we have to inquire is,
whether of a verity these things be so. I, in common
with most of those who have really investigated the
4
THE SPIRITUALISE
July 3, 1874.
subject, tbink Spiritualism a very important and sublime
fact in human experience, one that we cannot consent
to ignore or despise at the bidding of those who, while
accepting the spiritualistic phenomena of the past,
most inconsistently deny those of the present.
Permit me to say, you cannot fully understand or
appreciate Spiritualism by merely reading about it.
You must witness its facts, and become thoroughly
familiar with its manifold forms, ere you can judge, by
personal experience, of its resistless effect in producing
conviction on the mind of an honest and earnest
inquirer.
The Spiritualist does not give up the teachings of
the past; on the contrary, he feels that they are con¬
firmed to him. He simply emerges from slavery to the
letter into the true gospel liberty of the spirit in their
attempted interpretations.
I cannot accept your conclusion that we should re¬
fuse to think for ourselves on matters of religion,
whether in doctrine or practice, because it may prove
dangerous. Such a principle, if carried fully out,
would be utterly subversive of the Reformation, and
end by reinstating the Romish clergy in their spiritual
despotism, and relegating the laity to their mediaeval
condition of spiritual serfdom to a tyrannically pre¬
dominant hierarchy.
In conclusion, let me advise you to cease theorising
about Spiritualism, and commence with the practical
investigation of its truth or fallacy, leaving the worth
of its communications for after consideration. In the
hope that you yet mean to do so,
I remain yours, &c.,
Lisetie Makd otto ale Gregoey.
| LONDON SOCIETY ” ON MATERIALISED SPIRIT
FORMS.
More than once of late we have had to notice the
exceptionally noble and independent manner with
which London Society has spoken the truth on the still
unpopular*subject of Spiritualism, and it is pleasing to
be able to state on unquestionable authority that its
circulation has considerably increased in consequence.
Last Wednesday’s number contains another able article
by Mr. H. M. Dunphy, entitled Modern Miracles. It
gives further information to the public about the
mediumship of Miss Cook and Miss Showers, with much
of which the readers of this journal are already ac¬
quainted, but we make two quotations as follows—
MISS SHOWERS AHD FLORENCE MAPLE SEEN AT THE
SAME TIME.
As Mrs. and Miss Showers were to leave town the
following day, and knowing the importance of getting
the crucial test on that occasion, I said to Florence, “ I
want you particularly to give me a test that must satisfy
everybody.” She replied, “ I will, if I can.” I then
said, “ I want to see you and the medium together, as
you know it is said that you are so like the medium
that you must be one and the same person.” Her
answer was, “ I will try.” No condition of any kind
was imposed. “ Florence ” then went behind the
curtain, and a minute or two afterwards reappeared,
and, beckoning me forward, said, u Come and see her.”
I responded immediately, and crossing the room, stood
beside the figure. She was then, I should add, taller
than the medium, and, to my view, had a certain,
angularity of form which I had never observed in Miss
Showers. She then drew aside the curtain with her
left hand, and, pointing with her right, said, “ Look!”
There, seated in the chair as we had left her, but with
her head thrown over her left shoulder, and the right
side of her face visible, was unquestionably the immo¬
bile and unconscious form of Miss Showers! There
could be no mistake about it. It was no delusion.
She was there, beyond all possibility of doubt. Having
satisfied myself on this point, I returned to my seat;
but on the reappearance of “ Florence ” immediately
afterwards, I said, “ Will you give me one more test to
satisfy me ?” The answer Was, as before, “ I will, if
I can; but what is it ?” I replied, “ I want this
crowning test: I want to follow you instantly behind
the curtain; and I wish to place the light so that I can
see well into the room.” “ Florence ” at once acceded.
She made no stipulation beyond this : “ Come when I
call you, and come quickly.” The latter part of the
injunction was quite unnecessary. I then placed a
small benzin-lamp on the sofa, about three feet from
the curtain, and sat down. I was then so near the
sliding doors that I could have reached them with my
left hand without rising to my feet. I had not been
seated more than a few seconds, when “ Florence,”
partly opening the curtain, extended her hand, and
said, “Come now.” I sprang up, and, throwing aside
the curtain, which I held wide back with my left hand,
stood inside, and could see—^nothing, except Miss
Showers still in a trance in the arm-chair. “ Where
are you, Florence ?” I exclaimed; but there was no
answer. I strained my eyes to see any moving object,
but failed. The figure in white that I had seen a
second before had absolutely vanished into air! Still
holding back the curtain, that I might get as much
light as possible, I repeated the question, “ Florence,
where are you ?” Then there came from the corner of
the room immediately behind the medium the well re¬
membered voice of Florence, “ Oh, I am here! do yon
not see me ?” I could see nothing. “ I cannot see
you,” I said; “ but if you are there, touch me, and
let me touch the medium at the same time.” I then
extended my right arm until it rested on the head of
the medium. Immediately on doing so my fingers were
grasped by an invisible hand ! The touch was rather
cold, and in all respects similar to that of the appari¬
tion whose hands I had felt several times while she was
in the front drawing-room talking with us.
MR. H. M. DTJNPHY ON MATERIALISED SPIRIT FORMS.
I must not forget to relate what appeared to me one
of the most convincing proofs of Katie’s more than
natural power, namely, that when she had cut, before
our eyes, twelve or fifteen different pieces of cloth from
the front of her white tunic ^ souvenirs for her friends,
there was not a hole to be seen in it, examine it which
way you would. It was the same with her veil, and I
have seen her do the same thing several times.
I may add that I have seen the pieces of cloth cut
from the tunic. Another eye-witness tells me that
fifteen or sixteen pieces were cut in his presence, and
that the front of the skirt U looked like a cullender,”
but that all “ Katie ” did to restore it to its original
shape was to bring the folds together with her hands,
and then shake them out again, when the skirt was
found to be whole and entire as before ! I do not pre¬
sume to supply a solution for this or any other phase of
the phenomena.
«
July 3, 1874.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
n
In drawing attention to the subject, it is not my
desire to speculate, much less to dogmatise. All I care
to do is to invite cahdid inquiry. But to secure this I
find to be a matter of enormous difficulty. Here is an
illustration. Wishing to attract the attention of a
friend—a man of great ability in the scientific world,
and an admitted authority upon those subjects, which
may be regarded as his specialities—I addressed him
thus: “ You are an P.R.S., a deep thinker, and widely
known for your scientific attainments ; therefore, what
you say will carry weight. Will you accompany me to
a private house, and see a non-professional medium?
Satisfy yourself by every possible expedient that your
ingenuity cam devise that imposture is impossible, and
tell me what you think of it.” The answer was, “ I
don’t b'elieve in it, and I don’t care to take up new
things ; hut I will meet any man you like on my own
ground!”
This response might ho reasonable enough when all
that was known of the phenomena was limited to table¬
turning, rappings, bell-ringing, and the other ele¬
mentary, and possibly frivolous, indications of a
physical power exterior to the body. But the pheno¬
mena have now passed out of the realm of conjecture,
and have entered the region of fact. Science may still
fold its arms and stand aloof. It did the same in all
the earlier developments of those great discoveries
which will make the Yictorian age the grandest epoch
of the world’s history. Had the lowly disciples of
Science been dismayed or discouraged by the ridicule
of the ignorant or the sneers of the learned, we should
never have had the railway, the telegraph, or the
photograph. Men still living can remember when
travellers from Plymouth or York to London were four
or five days on the road, and made their wills before
they left home; when the streets of London were
dimly lighted by oil; and when the man who pro¬
claimed that it would be possible to travel with ease
and comparative safety fifty or sixty miles an hour, or
that the Queen and the President of the United States
could converse together, the one at Windsor and the
other at Washington, would have been looked upon as
a hopeless lunatic!
I admit, with the utmost frankness, that what I have
related as fperfectly true is, at the same time, as dia¬
metrically opposed to all the researches of science as
to all the traditions of probability. When I assert
that two ladies and three gentlemen sit down in a
room, and that room'in their own house, and lock the
door, and that they are shortly afterwards joined by
another individual (making the party six, instead of
five), and that the sixth, in the form of a woman, talks
with them for an hour, sings, plays, walks about, and
does many things that they do, and that she then
throws back the curtain by which she entered, and
shows you the living form of the fifth, and permits you
at one and the same time to feel her, and also feel the
insensible figure to which she points, and which you
recognise as the fifth—then I say that an astounding
and inexplicable fact has been established, which
challenges the attention of the thoughtful, and de¬
mands all the scrutiny that science Can bring to bear
upon it.
I advance no theories of my own to explain or ac¬
count for what I have seen. All I lay claim to is
critical accuracy for my desciption of experiences, ac¬
quired in many cases under circumstances which would
have given me especial facilities for the detection and
exposure of fraud. I found none. My story, and
those of others far more competent to deal with the
subject, may be discredited. We care not. We can
afford to wait. Time is on our side. Pacts which to¬
day are contemptuously denied will to-morrow be ad¬
mitted and vindicated. Out of the mists of ignorance
and prejudice light will be evolved. Through the rifts
in the clouds that obscure the . future I think I can
discern a form that, in the fulness of time, will assume
the majestic image of Truth.
MR. EPES SARGENT ON THE PROGRESS OP .
SPIRITUALISM.
Me. Benjamin Coleman has favoured us by sending
for publication the following letter from Mr. Epes
Sargent, one of the leading literary men in America,
and author of the excellent work on Spiritualism^ en¬
titled The Planchette, published by Messrs. Triibner
and Co.:—
Boston, April 20th, 1874.
Mr dear Mr. Coleman,—I am much obliged to you
for sending me the April number of the Christian
Spiritualist. Accept my thanks for the announcement
of the volume I have in hand. I see that the London
Spiritualist contains (April 3rd) a letter from Mr.
Crookes, which seems to settle conclusively the
genuineness of the manifestations through Miss
Cook. Not that I regard his independent testi¬
mony, however, unfortified by scientific tests, as any
better than that of Mr. Luxmoore or yourself. But
he is entitled to our thanks for taking so much pains
to settle a very interesting question; though I hope
he will have still further opportunities of confirming
his conclusions. You will see, in the Banner of Light
of April 18th, a copy of which I send you, an account
of some manifestations in Yermont, with the Eddy
family as mediums, where the phenomena seem to
have been similar to those through Miss Cook. If,
as now seems probable, these things are going to be
scientifically proved, so that the scientific world will
be compelled to admit them, what will be the effect
upon the public mind. They must work a revolu¬
tion in thought such as has never been known in
human history. So it seems to me. Not but that
the phenomena have unquestionably been known to
the few in all ages of the world. And not but that,
in witchcraft times, when they were mixed up
with superstitions and dreams of diabolical agency,
they were very generally credited. But now, for the
first time, they are likely to be established ifi the broad
light of science, when men can examine and weigh
them, undeterred by theological threats and by demon¬
phobia. In a volume published last month in London,
and edited by the Roman Catholic Archbishop of West¬
minster, you will find an elaborate paper by an English
clergyman, admitting the facts, but attributing them
all to the devil. I will send you a little pamphlet I
myself wrote two years ago, in reply to the Rev. Mr.
Phelps, a Presbyterian clergyman, who, while admitting
what was essential in the phenomena, tried to explain
the facts by the Satanic theory. The catholic authori¬
ties of the present day, very generally, freely admit
the facts, but credit them to the devil. The Catholic
World (N.Y.) has had two long articles lately advo¬
cating this view. Truly the world moves. The asto-
ilishing thing is to see certain persons admitting the
6
THE SPIRITUALIST.
facts, and not seeming to realise or feel their stupen¬
dous, their immense significance, reaching beyond this
life into the interminable future, and bringing to an
end so many great disputes that have agitated the
human mind. In affecting, as they must, all religious
systems, they must, through the latter, affect social and
political systems, by reducing everything to a purely
scientific valuation. It must be a satisfaction to you
■who have done such persistent battle for years in
behalf of these most pregnant and important facts, to
see the signs of their dawning triumph.—Truly yours,
Epes Sakgent.
Benj. Coleman, Esq.
NOTES ON CHUECH OF ENGLAND DOCTRINES.
NO. II.
BY ANONYMOUS CBITICS.*
We made, in our last communication, an important
charge against certain doctrines of your Church—viz.,
that they were in many instances irreconcilable one
with the other, and inculcated much that was at
variance with the divine intuition of reason.
Before proceeding to substantiate our charge, we
have a few introductory words to say.
We fear that, in the course of these writings, we
may possibly offend and grieve many pure and upright
souls, who are earnestly endeavouring to lead a life
which shall be pleasing to God and of service to their
fellow men ; but, whilst we regret this, we realise that
such men are the most difficult opponents with whom
we have to deal. They find themselves sustained and
comforted by their faith, they are conscious of an in¬
finite support in answer to their prayers, and believe
that they are in possession of all truth, and need no
greater light, no further accession of spiritual know¬
ledge.
It is hard to prove to such that they are living in
penury, and rags, and semi-starvation; for, alas! they
are contented, and say, “ We are rich, and well clothed
and nourished! ”
But we would ask such men to consider whether the
spiritual blessings they enjoy, and for which they are
rightly grateful, are not equally the product of all
religions, however enlightened or however degraded?
All number among their adherents good and earnest
men, who worship a Supreme Being according to their
several lights, and derive from the performance of their
religious duties, a satisfaction and support identical with
that experienced by the most faithful Christian.
They have an equal conviction of the truth and com¬
pleteness of their religion, and have laid down their
lives in countless thousands in testimony to their faith,
with a no less complete resignation than was displayed
by the Christian martyrs.
On what grounds, then, can the Christian claim for
his religion so marked a superiority over all others that
should entitle him to consider it as directly revealed
from the Almighty ?
Clearly not that he derives an especial grace and
comfort from the exercise of it; for we have shown
that the votaries of all religions, on this point, stand
on equal terms. We must assume, therefore, that it is
upon some, if not all, of the following grounds:—
Firstly—That it reveals a system of morality im¬
measurably superior to that of all other creeds.
* Given through the writing mediumship of a gentleman who does not
Wish his name to he published.
July 3, 1874.
Secondly—That it vouchsafes a more intimate know¬
ledge of the attributes and purposes of the Almighty.
Thirdly—That it contains a mqre complete and
intelligible “ scheme of salvation.”
Fourthly—That it was introduced, and in its earlier
days fostered, by a series of miraculous events.
We omit from these reasons one which is invariably
put forward in such discussions—viz., that the advent
of the Messiah is distinctly foreshadowed throughout
the entire Scriptures. We omit it because such a claim
would require a most exhaustive and erudite examina¬
tion before it could be either accepted or rejected. It
must, however, be borne in mind that the New Testa¬
ment was composed by men who firmly believed in
the faith they were promulgating, who were well
acquainted with the writings of the Old Testament,
and who, fully convinced that the birth and sufferings
of Christ were there predicted, must insensibly—we do
not say wilfully—have somewhat shaped their narra¬
tive in accordance with their preconceived opinions.
It is also certain that these writings have been
largely interpolated by pious, albeit ignorant, men, in
the earlier days of the Church, and that the received
translation contains, unexpunged, many of these addi¬
tions to the original text.
Grave errors of translation, frequently affecting the
passages to which we especially allude, are also acknow¬
ledged to exist, and it is remarkable that there is hardly
a prophecy supposed to refer to Christ’s advent which has
not, at one time or another, been set aside by orthodox
Christian writers as irrelevant.
We earnestly, therefore, invite all good and thought¬
ful men—all those, indeed, who are interested in the
subject of their belief—to examine critically the grounds
on which they hold it, to study some of the many works
which have of late years been written on this subject,
to read them fearlessly and conscientiously, not with
preconceived opinions, but with a prayerful desire to
arrive at a right conclusion.
We believe that such a study will temper the feeling
of repugnance with which they may at first receive our
teachings, by convincing them that there is at least some
ground for doubt, where previously they assumed that
there could possibly be none.
With these remarks we will commence our examina¬
tion of the doctrines of the Christian Church.
Mbs. and Miss Showers returned to Teignmouth, from
London, last week.
Spibitualism and Social Refobm Movements.—The
Spiritualists of New Jersey lately held their yearly convention
in a manner which seems rather common-place for persons in
close communication with the world of spirits. Some were
for enfranchising the Indians, a measure which has been
broached by the most materialistic politicians. One member
of tbe convention announced a deep-laid plot to elect General
Grant for a third term; of this also we have heard in circles
which never choose a table as the centre of their circumference.
Another member observed that nothing is needed to make
Government a grand success but honesty. Sentiments of this
sort, may, however, be found in sublunary copy-books. Alto¬
gether the seance would have been tame but for the protest
made by the assembly against tight-lacing. The energy with
which this vice was condemned suggests that, although the
spirits can have but little practical knowledge of the worst in¬
conveniences of the system, these unsubstantial beings hold
it in great contempt. The Convention, in fact, decided that
tight-lacing prevented women from “ acting their part in the
redemption of humanity.” Any young person persisting in
the practice should certainly be kept on bread and water till
she has made out the meaning of this passage, or thrown away
her stays.—Dover Standard.
July 3, 1874.
THE SPIBITUALIST.
7
SPIRITUALISM IN BRADFORD.
On Wednesday night Mrs. Cora L. "V. Tappan, the eminent
Spiritualistic lecturer, gave a discourse at the Temperance
Hall, Bradford. There was a very good audience, over which
Mr. A. Cross presided.
Mrs. Tappan said that all knowledge was derived from the
testimony of the material senses, or from that of the spiritual
part of nature. There could be no other source of knowledge
than that which name either through man’s physical senses,
or that which came to him through his spiritual senses.
Spiritual existence separate from the human senses had been
acknowledged from all time, and spiritual beings had been
seen, conversed with, and understood. The lecturer referred
to the ideas prevalent amongst various races of men as to the
future state, and said that heaven, as materially described in
the Scriptures, was only a comparison, and not literally
described. The employments of spirits had not been fully
understood, because of the unfrequency of the visitations, and
what the spirits revealed was always that which concerned
human welfare, and not their own. The realm which the
spirits inhabited was of spiritual substances, which were as
tangible to the spirits as the material substances which sur¬
rounded men. In spiritual life there was no manual labour-r¬
ail labour was of the mind. In spiritual life there was no
position, no eminence, and no homes except in the qualities of
the mind, in virtues and in graces. If a spirit entered spi¬
ritual life unadorned with these, then that spirit was a pauper,
even though on earth he had worn a crown; but if he had been
really honest, and had adorned his life each day with truth¬
fulness, if he had been a pauper on earth, in spirit life he was
amongst those who were counted wealthy. (Applause.) One
of the difficulties of the spirits was to penetrate the dark
mists of the earth, and to communicate with those whom
they loved. The spirits whom they desired to influence were
shut up in the material body as in a prison. They hovered
about those whom they loved, and she would ask any of them
if their guardian angels had not at times saved them from
falling into mistakes and danger, if some voice had not warned
them from some intended evil and led them away from some
danger. These were the works of angels. It might be asked
—had they statesmen in spirit life, and had they governments ?
Yes, but they were not made by human laws. The spirits
were governed by laws as unchangeable and as infallible as the
revolutions of the earth—laws of truthfulness, virtue, and
goodness. They might ask, what did the spirits see in the
future for mankind ? They saw that ultimately human beings
would have attained such excellence of intelligence and
charity and mutual forbearance, that there would be no need
of arms, no need of fighting, no need of slaying their fellows,
no need of battalions of soldiers that went down to battle and
never returned. The moral power of mankind would have so
increased by growth and culture that all questions of difference
would be settled in the mutual and amicable way in which
they discussed any ordinary transaction. (Applause.)
Mrs. Tappan then invited questions on the subject of the
lecture, and a number were put. She next gave an impromptu
poem on the subject of home, selected by the audience, and
the proceedings shortly afterwards terminated.—Bradford
Observer, June 26th.
The Qheen’s English.—Highlanders have the habit,
when talking their English, such as it is, of interjecting the
personal pronoun “ he,” where not required, such as “ The
King he has come,” instead of “ The Xing has come.” Often,
in consequence, a sentence or expression is rendered suffi¬
ciently ludicrous, as the sequel will show. A gentleman says
he had the pleasure of listening to a clever man, the Rev. Mr.
——, let his locality be a secret, and recently he began his
discourse thus:—“ My friends, “ You will find the subject of
discourse this afternoon in the first Epistle general of the
Apostle Peter, chapter v., and verse 8, in the words, ‘The
Devil he goeth about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he
may devour.’ Now my friends, with your leave, we will
divide the subject of our text to-day into four heads. Firstly,
we shall endeavour to ascertain ‘ Who the Devil he was ?’
Secondly, we shall inquire into his geographical position,
namely, ‘ Where the Devil he was ?’ and ‘ Where the Devil he
was going ?’ Thirdly—and this is of a personal character—
‘ Who the Devil he was seeking ?’ And, fourthly and lastly,
we shall endeavour to solve a question which has never been
solved yet, ‘ What the Devil he was roaring about ?’ ”—Haver¬
fordwest Telegraph.
SPIRITUALISM IN DUNDEE..
Of all the large towns in Scotland, less is known in Dundee
about Spiritualism than elsewhere, but Mr. William Oxley, of
Manchester, has begun to ventilate the subject there, in the
columns of the Dundee Gourier and Argus, in consequence of
which the spirit of inquiry is already at work in the district.
In the course of one of his letters to the Courier Mr. Oxley
says:—
If we may assume that spirits cause these manifestations a
very important question arises. Are they good or bad spirits ?
This, so far as I am concerned, must remain an open question.
I am not in possession of the secrets of the Omnipotent
Power, neither have I been “ on the other side” so as to see
and thence determine the locality whence they emanate. The
Great Teacher has given us a rule to apply to this and all
human action. ” By their fruit ye shall know them.” Judged
by this infallible standard the spirit Katie King may, in my
humble opinion, be classed as a good spirit, and, therefore, not
an emissary of His Satanic Majesty. In reference to the
remarks of your correspondent concerning “ Our Lord’s
finished work of redemption,” and also my own and my
friends’ status, as to whether we are “ Sinners above all
others,” I think a moment’s reflection will convince him that
such topics are hardly suited for the columns of a public
newspaper,'and I hope he will give me credit for good taste for
not venturing upon such ground. It appears to me sound
philosophy, make sure of your facts, thence you may proceed
to build a theory. To my mind the question presses home to
all thoughtful minds—Are these alleged facts true ? If they
are proved to be so, the time has come, or will soon come,
when we, of all Churches, will have to look well to tbe founda¬
tions on which we have been, and are building, for if our
existing theories should be found to be contrary to facts it is
not difficult to prognosticate which must ultimately yield.
As to the teaching, of the spirits, this depends upon the quality
of the source whence they come. Katie King was a working
rather than a teaching spirit. She told me, amongst Other things
“ that all spirits have their appointed work to perform, and
as they enter upon and complete this, their own work, and do
it from the love of the use, or for the good of others who
require help in instruction, or assistance to elevate them from
the lower spheres, then they are prepared themselves to enter
upon higher states and have work to perform of a higher
order.” This agrees with the statement she made at her last
appearance, viz., that the three years during which she has
been engaged in producing tbe physical manifestations she
has suffered much, but that the overpowering sentiment,
which was above all the suffering, was the feeling she
experienced in knowing that she was doing good to others, by
demonstrating to them the fact of spirit existence, and that
spirits have been able to prove the fact by their apparent
presence clothed for the time being in material substance.
In the pulpit and in the confessional, Louise Lateau is
already declared in the Rhine provinces, to be a saint destined
to guide the people of God in their struggle with the unbe¬
lievers.
All communications intended for publication in each
forthcoming number of The Spiritualist should reach the
office as early as the Monday morning of each week, unless
they contain late news necessitating their later arrival.
Yictor Hugo on Spirit Life.—The following extracts
are from the last new romance of Yictor Hugo, Ninety-Three.
A woman who has been rescued from a burning village, and
who has lost her children, says to her deliverer, “ You did
wrong to save me ; I owe you a grudge for it. I would rather
be dead, because I am sure that I should see them. I should
know where they are; they would not see me, but I could be
near them. The dead must be able to [protect their own.”
Again: “ The prattle of a child is greater and less than
speech ; there are no notes, but a song; there are no syllables,
but a language; these accents had their beginning in heaven,
and will not end upon earth; they were before birth, and are
but continued, in due succession. This lisping is composed
of what the child said when he was an angel, and of what he
will say when he is a man; the cradle has a yesterday as much
as the tomb has a to-morrow; the unknown past and the
unknown future meet in these incomprehensible murmurings ;
and nothing proves God, eternity, responsibility, the duality of
destiny, like the portentous shadow over the infant soul.”
THE SPIEITUALIST.
July 3, 1874.
Poetri).
BUNYAN AT BEDFORD.
(From Punch).
See the Inauguration of Boehm's Statue of the Author of " The Pilgrim’s
Progress,” given by the Duke of Bedford to the town of ditto.—Times,
Thursday, June 11).
BtJNYAN'the Pilgrim, dreamer, preacher,
Sinner and soldier, tinker and teacher,
For heresy scoffed, scourged, put in prison—
The day of Tolerance yet un-risen—
"Who heard from the dark of his dungeon lair
The roar and turmoil of Vanity Fair,
And shadowed Man’s pilgrimage forth with passion
Heroic, in Q-od-guided poet-fashion,
Has now his revenge; lie looks down at you
In a ducally-commissioned Statue,—
A right good artist gave life anu go to it,
But his name’s Bobhm, and Rhyme says “no ” to it—
And the Dean of Westminster, frank and fluent,
Spoke Broad-Ohurch truths of the Baptist truant.
Punch likes the Duke and he likes the Dean,
And the summer air in the summer green,
When the Anabaptist poet and clown
Was setup as the glory of Bedford town:
But ducal and decanal folk should learn
That i o deal with the Past is of small concern;
That light for the day’s life is each day’s need,
That the Tinker-Teacher has sown bis seed;
And we want oar Bunyan to show the way
Through the Sloughs of Despond that are around us to-day,
Our guide for stiaggling souls to wait,
And litt the latch of the wicket-gate.
The Churches now debate and wrangle,
Strange doubts theology entangle;
Each sect to the other doth freedom grudge,
Archbishop asks ruling of a Judge.
Why comes no pilgrim, with eye of Are,
To tell us where poin teth minster spire,
To show, though critics may sneer and scoff,
The path to “ the land that is very far ofi?’’
The people are weary of vestment-vanities,
Of litigation about inanities,
And fain would listen, O preacher and peer,
To a voice like that of this Tinker-seer;
Who guided the Pilgrim up, beyond
The Valley of ueath, and the Slough of Despond,
And Doubting Castle, and Giant Despair,
To those Delectable Mountains fair.
And over the River and in at the Gate
Where for weary Pilgrims the Angels wait 1
arorrapntience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
THE TEACHINGS OF SPIRITUALISM.
Sib,—The statement by the writer in the Pall Mall Gazette,
that the morality of the uncultivated classes is merely con¬
ventional and superstitious, that it is merely the common law
as it were of the class, the outcome of a sort of esprit de
corps, and that perjury is shrunk from merely from the fear of
a future hell, is in my opinion an erroneous and very inadequate
statement of fact. Underlying these merely external and
artificial factors of character, are the primary and deeply-
seated instincts of the soul, cropping out in every variety of
absolute development and mutual inter-relation, waiting like
the sleeping beauty and her suite, in an enchanted palace, for
the awakening breath, the inspiring kiss of the regenerating
spirit-influence now abroad in this nineteenth century.
Along the glens and over the wild, elevated table-lands of the
West Riding of Yorkshire, the working population has been
stirred, and a new cultus has developed itself. The meetings
conducted according to the forms common among the Wes-
leyans, are enlivened by the sudden uprising of a trance¬
speaking medium, an appearance generally preceded for some
time by frequent involuntary jerks and twitches of the body and
limbs. The voice and manner are altogether different from
the natural voice and manner of the speaker, and so charac¬
teristic, that the audience almost at the first word recognise
the spirit who claims to address them.
My recollections of the scene strongly recall to my mind the
lines in Goethe’s Wilhelm Meister, a translation of which, if
my memory serves me rightly, runs thus:—
“ From the mountain to the champaign,
Thohills and glens along,
Comes a rushing and a tramping
Comes an impulse as of song.
And this undetermined moving,
Brings delight and brings good heed;
And the striving is with loving,
And the living is indeed.”
One particular spirit was a great favourite. I think they
called him the Yorkshire Weaver. With the racy humour and
in the quaint idiom of a genuine Yorkshireman, he described
with great gout his joy in the consciousness of endless
existence, in his freedom from the incumbrance of an earthly
body, and from earthly cares, with some sly allusions to the
larder question. There was a bonhomme and a sober sense
of waking bliss underlying it all, that found a response in
the best feelings of my heart. I must not say that there has
been no alloy to my feelings of pleasure in my experiences of
this kind. Much there was bad in grammar and bad in
taste; much utterly absurd and contradictory to the idea
that the elevated spirits who sometimes claimed to speak
through these mediums, could be capable of talking |such
stuff, or in fact were present at all. Yet however varied
the utterances, both in style and matter, there was a
keeping in the kind of teaching; no death; no resurrec¬
tion of the body; the day of judgment ever present; cha¬
racter, the ever abiding witness for or against the individual as
it is formed every moment by the thoughts and actions; endless
progression, and the final happiness of all; evil but undeveloped
good; an individual responsibility for every act not to be
evaded by any vicarious expedient. A modest and intelligent
young girl who was being developed as a writing medium, and
now speaks in trance with considerable effect, told me she had
never read a word about Spiritualism. She had been brought
up as a Wesleyan, but said her views had been modified
by spirit teaching much in the sense above stated,
though she did not express herself so fully as I have done.
This is the kind of theology that with few exceptions has
been arrived at in the same way, by mediums in all the various
countries of the globe, and which commends itself to my mind
as practically good and morally sound.
The results of this elevating and leavening process among
the masses in America, produced fruits as stated in my
previous letter, in the election of Abraham Lincoln to the
presidential chair; a statement I made on the authority of
Judge Edmonds, who made it his business to travel through
the States for the sake of the investigation. That in a few
years a still more striking evidence will be given in every
country in the effect of an enlightened public opinion, I have
no doubt.
Besides, this general effect, I must not omit to mention
the particular effect the movement has had on individuals of
decidedly mediumistic organisation. A body of men and
women has developed into higher intelligence and culture than
their artificial education could ever have adduced. Orators
not to be surpassed by the best trained minds of the age have
arisen, artists in various walks have produced works, some of
them of considerable merit, and all produced under circum¬
stances under which no ordinary artists could have produced
them, and in an incredibly short space of time, and all this in
most cases where no previous training or instruction had
taken place. Andrew Jackson Davis, an American cobbler, of
no schooling, has, through mesmeric processes been developed
into a trance-medium, and is now consciously clairvoyant
upon subjects of the greatest importace to the human race,
whether in cosmogony, history, the formation of character or
physiology, he has worked a system which is at any rate co¬
herent, and has much to commend it. In details he is often
inaccurate, and is too little careful to prove his points to take
high rank as a scientific writer, yet when I say that he not only
anticipated Wallace and Darwin, but has sketched out a grand
plan in which the views of these eminent men take place only
as episodes long before their works were published, I have
said enough to establish the comprehensiveness of his views,
however attained.
Another instance is Hudson Tuttle, a farmer of no artificial
culture, Whose work, entitled The Arcana of Nature, contains
an account of the gradual development of animal life on the
globe as revealed in palaeontology which would do credit to
most scientific men. The question arises with great significance,
whence had these men this knowledge, having never learned ?
We may now pause to ask whether humanity, with its
noblest desires, as we have seen, awakened, direct teaching
from above, angels ascending and descending on the head of
the Son of Man in His collective capacity. Is humanity, we
may ask, in full cry for Heaven, so vile as to find, amidst all
these noble teachings, encouragement only for evil, because
among these teachings is that of “the abolition of a physical
hell ? ” And is this noble development, some of the features
of which I have so briefly and so inadequately sketched,
fairly met when it is treated with ridicule, because at its
commencement the movement of furniture was used to attract
it
July 3, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
D
attention in order to be made the means afterwards of convey¬
ing intelligence? Is this great movement, I ask, fairly
characterised as a table-turning movement ?
Let me conclude with an illustration which has just occurred
to me. Some years ago when crossing the Atlantic, my
interest was aroused one morning as I was lying in my cabin
by a sound in the sea near me, as of simmering or hissing. On
looking through the little port-hole at the side of my bed, I saw
a circle not much larger than the hoop of a cask rapidly
revolving, the water within and at the circumference being
stirred into bubbles and wavelets. I threw something on and
rapidly went on deck to continue my observations. As the
distance from the ship increased, so did the size of the circle
and the area and violence of the disturbance, until at some
considerable distance the revolving water began to rise in
angry tumult, conewise, to a considerable height. Then the
clouds previously stationary began to share in the movement,
to revolve, to project downwards processes, and ultimately to
form a junction with the ascending water, thus forming
a revolving pillar connecting sea and sky. To call this
sublime spectacle a catspaw, because it began in an apparently
as insignificant a way, would be about as just as to call the
divine spiritual movement a table-turning movement. Nay, it
would be more just, for the fleeting air, the plastic water, and
the revolving cloud form but a temporary, and for aught we
know an objectless connection, but the loving, the wise and
the Almighty Spirit of God acting through myriads of
benevolent spirits is elevating humanity into the everlasting
vortices of the spiritual world to free it for ever from the
bondage of the selfhood. Thomas Hayle.
Bochdale, June 29th, 1874.
CONCEIYABILITY AS A CBITEB.ION OE TBTTTH.
Sib,—If conceivability is to be set up as the standard and
criterion of truth I fear that we should have to content our¬
selves with a universal scepticism, since the fundamental and
efficient power and law in nature is a profound mystery
throughout, but the human mind is perpetually relapsing into
the fatal error of supposing that it can explain the reasons of
events and natural actions ; hence, setting up its own power of
conception as the judge of fact. Both Mr. Herbert Spencer
and Mr. Lewes have been guilty of this folly, well exposed by
Mr. Mill in his works, and particularly in his article on
Comte in the Westminster Review.
Now Mr. Serjeant Cox, though in his letter in The
Spiritualist of June 5th,he says, “I am aware that improbability
is no answer to facts,” yet in his book What am I ? vol ii.,
page 29, of his concluding remarks and “ summing up,”
his “ purely judicial mind ” cannot refrain from upholding a
fancy at the expense of a great universal fact in physiology,
on the ground of inconceivability, as though an immaterial
substance retaining memory was any more conceivable, for he
ignores the spiritual substance for an immaterial one, if that
be a conceivable thing at all.
In his preface Mr. Cox quotes from Dr. Eadcliffe, who says,
” If I reflect, for example, upon the workings of memory, be¬
fore long I find myself regarding them from a spiritualistic
rather than from a materialistic point of view; and do what I
will,I cannot prevent myself from coming to the conclusion that
mind must have its foundation, not in matter, but in spirit,
or rather, in a central something underlying both matter and
spirit.” Thus it is that men give themselves up to fancy and
dream away realities, and make conceivability the criterion of
truth. The next step is to deny that there is such substance
as matter and spirit in existence, and say with Mr. Bray that
“ force is everything” and that that we only know as mind.
But how strange of Mr. Cox to suppose a force in man able to go
forth and leave the medium to move the table by the simple
power of laying hands on the table, and yet to deny the
existence of this force in the laying on of hands in the case of
disease ; surely a man who can so commit himself is not in
his right mind.
The physical power is at its work in man in all his parts,heart,
lungs, brain, and in every other organ, replenishing and re¬
jecting materials, or at use in the limbs in what is called
muscular power, from the muscle being the ordinary instru¬
ments of the power as directed consciously or unconsciously
from within. This power it is that issues forth, whether by
spirit influence or not, to the performance of the phenomena
in question, and the materialised form is clearly endowed with
physical force. The action of the force in man is much the
same as with the steam-engine, the same power from the fire
working in different directions and in different ways, cutting
timber in one place, planing it into boards in another, drilling
holes sonewhere else and so on, well exemplifying the trans¬
mutation of force in general. But how the soul grows and
developes from the germ cell, and the babyhood, to the
man, and progresses in the after-life without sus¬
tenance or change of substance we are not told; or
how the psychic and immaterial force gets renewed after
all its mighty effort? Mr. Cox must try his fancy again
in aid of his previous fancy. Mr. Cox reminds one of the
mountebank with his one pill to cure all ills; his psychic force
pill to explain all the facts of Spiritualism, and hypnotism, and
to explain all the marvels of mesmerism. Animal magnetism
is one of the mighty truths of man and mind, for magnetism
is the term that stands best for the facts, both in respect to
the investing the new matter with the precise condition of the
old, and in respect to the influence under the mesmeric opera¬
tions—the subduing or leavening, as by a contagion, and
the production of the rapport or sympathy, the clear evidence
of a relation and action between the operator and patient. But
I believe Mr. Cox is not possessed of the mesmeric power, of
course he cannot be, though he tried his hand on Miss Showers,
and he seems to accept nothing that is beyond the length of
his own little tether and power of conception, and hence limits
clairvoyance to one phase of it, prevision being inconceivable
to him. And so let it be. Henby G. Atkinson.
Boulogne-sur-Mer.
MATERIALISED SPIRIT FORMS.
Sib,—May I be permitted to ask if any medium will under¬
take to bring a materialised spirit form from a cabinet, the
whole of which (with the medium) is enclosed in an ordinary
herring-net, the mouth of which (tied and sealed) is kept in
sight of the sitters during the entire seance ?
The publication of the above in your next will oblige
An Enquibing Sceptic.
Liverpool, June 29th, 1874.
[This involves the formation and disappearance of one of these tempo¬
rarily solid full forms, in the light, under the eyes of the spectators, a
phenomenon which has never yet taken place, so far as we know, in this
country. We do not see why the test should not be obtained whh the
medium in a herring net inside the cabinet, with the seals outside, since
mediums for the full form have often been bound with tape, the knots
sealed with signet rings, and the ends of the tape and final knots placed
outside the cabinet in sight of the spectators. No medium will “undertake”
to do anything, the phenomena not being under their control. If our
correspondent is in the exceedingly elementary stage of worrying himself
about the imposture theory—which possesses no interest to the readers of
these pages — he should read up the numberless tests which have been
applied to this mauifestation in the past, and should settle doubts about less
striking manifestations, by forming a spirit circle in his own home, with no
Spiritualist or stranger present. Sir Duncan Gibb once handed a paper to
the Anthropological Institute, narrating how a North American Indian
medium was mysteriously released, after being rolled up and fastened in
hundreds of yards of fishing-net.—Ed.]
Sib,—In tbe account given by Sir Charles Isham in to-day’s
Spiritualist of the seances held at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s
with Miss Showers, he states that he gave bouquets to both
the spirit forms which appeared. May I, without seeming too
curious, inquire what became of the bouquets ?
Brighton, June 1874. Simplex.
[Most likely left in the cabinet. Spirits can carry objects sometimes from
place to place, usually from one medium to another, and this manifestation
was once common in London, as fully recorded in these pages at the time.
Baron Kirkup, of Florence, has written to Mr. Crookes and published at
different times in these pages, how spirits have carried letters bodily to
relatives of his fifty or one hundred miles away, and brought back the
written answers, about twice as rapidly as an express train could have
carried the same. The only way anything approaching this could be done
by trickery would be by tne aid of trained carrier pigeons, but the Baron
and his family are incapable of trickery, and the letters were conveyed by
their own mediumship, not that of any stranger. Before the railway was
made to Hereford, the local papers were considerably puzzled at the rapid
way in which the Hereford Times obtained London news, via Gloucester; it
was done by means of carrier pigeons.—Ed.].
Sib,—The way in which Serjeant Cox ignores all facts
which do not fit in with his theories, and puts questions which
have been answered over and over again in the Spiritual
periodicals, tends to render the controversy he has raised
endless. The resemblance of the materialised forms to those
of the mediums has been published from the first, though he
writes as if the fact had been withheld, and for two or three
years a long series of tests has been applied to them, which
Mr. Cox utterly ignores, although by so doing he, of course,
inflicts pain upon truthful and upright mediums, and shows
disrespect to Mr. William Crookes, Mr. Dunphy, and other
friends of his own, who testify that they have seen the
mediums and the materialised forms at the same time.
10
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 3,1874,
I write to suggest that as Mr. Serjeant Cox is dissatisfied
with the past evidence, that he, instead of arguing, shall show
its weak points by practically doing himself what he insinuates
the mediums have consciously or unconsciously done;
namely
1. He shall go to the residence of a justice of the peace in
Gloucester-square and be searched by a committee of gentle¬
men ; he shall then be conducted into a room also previously
searched, in which room he shall be bound by wrists and by
waist with previously stretched tape, the knots shall be sealed
with signet rings, and the two ends of the tape brought out¬
side the cabinet, so as to be in sight of the spectators all
through the seance. Then he shall come out, robed in white
drapery, and after the seance, be found, as at first, in his
ordinary dress, with the tapes, knots, and seals intact. He
shall do the same kind of thing in various houses for two or
three years, until thoroughly sick at heart at having to yield
so much to people who believe in nothing but gyves, and bolts,
and bars, and who care nothing for personal integrity or
individual happiness. After passing through all this, he shall
have such letters written against him in public journals, as
he is now writing against others similarly circumstanced.
2. That he shall be placed alone in a cabinet which has
only one entrance, a lock of his hair shall be passed through
the crack of the door and the end fixed in full view of the
spectators, then living faces shall appear and speak at the
aperture in the cabinet far above his head. After doing this,
all kinds of insinuations against his character shall be printed
in a public newspaper.
3. He shall go to the residence of Mr. William Crookes,
with no luggage but a little unfastened hand-bag, and stay
there for a week. At all kinds of odd times when asked, he
shall go into the library used as a cabinet, and come out
therefrom in white robes, which sometimes disappear instantly
when Mr. Crookes enters the cabinet, but sometimes Mr.
Crookes and others shall see him and a white-robed living
figure resembling him, at the same time. He shall be photo¬
graphed at the same distance from the camera as the white
robed figure, and under the same conditions, and be found
to difier materially in size. He shall, after this, be publicly
abused as being “no better than he ought to be” in the
newspapers read by his friends and neighbours at Moat Mount
and elsewhere.
4. He shall go to Mr. Luxmoore’s, and his friend Mr.
Dunphy, the barrister, shall see him sitting in a chair in
ordinary dress, and see at the same time another person
resembling him in features standing by that chair in a white
dress, and Mr. Dunphy shall publicly testify to the fact. A
lawyer shall then write letters arguing that the thing did not
take place, and uttering insinuations against Serjeant Cox,
without caring in the slightest degree for any suffering he
may indict.
5. Mr. Cox shall stand in white robes between Mr. Crookes
and Mr. Tapp in a good light; he shall then cut twelve or
thirteen large holes—some of them three or four inches in
diameter—in the front of the skirt of his dress. He shall
next give that skirt one “ flap,” and it shall be complete as
before, with no holes or joint in it, when examined imme¬
diately by eye and by hand.
6. He shall know that the terrible power whereby these
things are done is not his own and not under his control, and
that power shall tell him that if certain conditions are broken
at the seances his life will be the forfeit. He shall also read
that on occasions when low-class people partially broke the
conditions they had promised to keep, the mediums suffered,
in one case spitting blood for a long time afterwards, in
another falling down several times in the streets, and in all the
nervous- system shaken, A lawyer shall then not only publish
all sorts of plausible insinuations against him, but shall urge
persons to break their word and break faith with the power at
the root of the matter, and commit an outrage at all risks.
7. Whenever he gets a friendly invitation to go anywhere as
a guest, he shall be uncertain whether there is any truth or
friendliness in the letter, or whether it is a trap laid by his
direst enemies.
The feelings of Serjeant Cox on leading a life like this,
would not be enviable, and I submit that he is morally
bound to himself produce artificially the manifestations
stated, before inflicting suffering upon others by intimating
that they could be performed by artificial means. X. .
[As s. matter of fact they cannot be produced artificially. Take the
homeliest physical test, Mr. Luxmoore’s tying sailor fashion with stretched
tapes and sealed knots; no earthly power would' ever free the medium
once from such bonds and replace them as before. By long experience,
he could adjust the tapes with such nicety that they would just touch the
wrists without stopping the circulation, yet so close to the skin, that a
small knife-blade, or blade of a pair of scissors, could only be passed
between the tape and the wrist with much care when it became necessary
to free the medium, so close was the fit. The knots were sealed with the
signet ring of one or other of the greatest strangers present. We have
seen a great deal in the way of tying mediums, but none so thoroughly
securely done as Mr. Luxmoore’s. Tying with unsealed rope, especially
when the rope happens to be stiff, is less secure by far; tying with thread
is good, but thread may be accidentally broken by the medium falling while
in a trance.—-Ed.].
A TEST SEANCE IN MANCHESTER.
Sir,—Since my report of a seance with Mr. Tom Eves in
your last, I have had several sittings with him, and each time
under test conditions, in one case ending with thorough
searching of him, in the other beginning with this (to me
ridiculous) operation. It caused some amusement when one
gentleman, who assisted in searching at the beginning,
demanded the same at the end of the seance. The manifesta¬
tions were beautiful, and partly surprising, even to very
experienced investigators ; but a test which I witnessed yes¬
terday surpassed all.
The meeting took place at Mr. Booth’s, 69, Wellington-street,
Bradford, near Manchester. It may suffice to say, that the
people impressed upon me the idea, that any detection of
fraud would send the culprit into the open air in shorter time
than he came into the room, Unfortunately, the medium was
in a very bad state of health, caused by an uncalled for sudden
blaze of light while the medium was entranced. Mr. Eves
was put into a vapour-bath box, the top part only letting his
head come out. This top part was screwed in several places
tightly to the sides ; there could be no escape. A large piece
of cloth covered the whole nearly up to the ceiling. After
waiting a considerable time, a luminous cloud appeared before
this curtain, trying to develop into a form, moving about
until it retired. The spirits then expressed sorrow at being
unable to do any more, the medium being upset, and the power
weak. To me, however, this crucial test lifted this weak
manifestation far above my previously enjoyed strikingly
beautiful, but far less severe test seance, and the assurance of
most of the assembled people, who had seen the forms clearly
under the same conditions (same box, &c.) a short time before,
left me no doubt about the truth of these facts, which could
not be accepted, even by an old Spiritualist, without careful
investigation.
If Mr. T. Eves will accept the invitations from London, let
us hope he will not forget his mission to be in the North, by
remaining in the metropolis. C. Beimees.
2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester. June 23d, 1874.
MESSRS. MASKELYNE AND COOK’S EXHIBITIONS.
Sir,—Mr. W. Morton, manager, replies to my communication
in The Spiritualist of May 29th, relative to Dr. Geo. Sexton’s
exposi of Spiritualism by Messrs. Maskelyne and Cook. All
that I can say is that if Messrs. Maskelyne and Cook profess to
perform by trickery the phenomena produced through the
mediumship of the Davenport Brothers, then let them prove
that the professed tricks really are tricks, and not the results
of spirit power. They will of course reply, “ We do not choose
to divulge our professional secretand this has been the
reply of all the mediums turned jugglers—of the Melville Fays,
Blys, and Yon Vlecks. It is a role very easily played, and
unscrupulous mediums are often tempted by the hope of gain
to try it. But they always have a “ professional secret” which
no offer of money can induce them to divulge, which is very
odd, seeing that they are often needy.
Mr. Morton himself confesses that the feats of Messrs.
Maskelyne and Oook are beyond his comprehension, and inti¬
mates that he should believe them mediums if he could suppose
that spirits would “ do such unspiritual things. ” In the
United States this mingling of jugglery with spirit phenomena
is an old story. If Messrs. Maskelyne and Cook really
wish to convince the world that they perform by jugglery feats
that Spiritualists have supposed to be explicable only by
spirit power, let them select six suitable persons, three
Spiritualists and three non-Spiritualists, who shall be pledged
to respect their secret, but who shall fairly report whether or
no their feats can be explained by normal human efforts of skill
or strength. This is a very easy and fair way of solving
the question without harming their “ professional secret,” and
until they solve it in this way, and prove that their pre¬
tensions are true, they cannot shake the faith of any intelligent
Spiritualist in the genuineness of the lower order of physical
phenomena due to Spiritualism. A Subscriber.
Boston, United States. June 16th, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
11
July 3, 1874.
[The writer of this letter appears to he unaware that we published full
details of the methods by which all the chief tricks of Messrs. Maskelyne
and Cook at the Crystal Palace were performed, and gave sectional draw¬
ings of the apparatus. Dr. Sexton at first did not believe the explanation,
and thought mediumship had something to do wit i it, but he afterwards
made the apparatus, and reproduced all tbeir best tricks himself. Their
new dark teanc-i, however, he has never explained or reproduced, so on
this point Mr. Morton speaks truly; it is the only point to be cleared up.
—Ed.]
Sir,—Permit me to thank Experto Grede for hia answer to
my query concerning Messrs. Maskelyne and Cook. I have
read his pamphlet, and it seems to settle the question. Wm.
Morton’s letter is, on the other hand, eminently unsatisfactory
and evasive. He says that “I must be a ware, that Mr.
Maskelyne tells his audience that what they will witness is the
result of trickery.” Of course I am aware of this; and I am,
I think, quite justified in asking whether, under the stringent
conditions which I have mentioned, their trickery will avail
them anything ? and whether they will successfully imitate,
under such conditions, phenomena which, while perhaps
infinitely less startling and far more uncertain than their own
carefully prepared series of mechanical tricks, derive their
importance from that which so many competent observers are
fully persuaded of, viz., the absence of all trickery; the impos¬
sibility of any trickery, even if desired (which in the cases I
allude to it is not); and, above all, the absence of any pre¬
pared machinery ?
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke have already overshot their
mark. The regularity, precision, and certainty of their phe¬
nomena contrast most unfavourably (knowing what is known
of tbe delicacy of Spiritualistic conditions) with the compara¬
tive uncertainty of the genuine phenomenal manifestations;
depending as they do on something outside of the presumed
conjuror.
In his calm, thoughtful article published in the January
number of tbe Quarterly Journal of Science, Mr. Wm. Crookes,
F.B.S., in reviewing the theories put forward to account for
Spiritualistic phenomena, quickly disposes of the trickery
hypothesis, and considers that it will cover but a very small
space of ground. When, therefore, Mr. Morton says “ That I
accuse him of publishing untruthful advertisements,” I, in
spite of his sneers, deliberately repeat, that if he means (and
one of his advertisements looks very like'it) that because certain
strange phenomena can be imitated, that the fact of their being
so imitated proves the original to be due to trickery, the asser¬
tion is untruthful, and few, very few, if any, will not agree
with me.
That many clergymen may have written and thanked
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke for exploding, as they imagine,
that to which to them is, in its outcome, Anathema Maranatha,
I can readily believe. A Spiritualistic Humbug,
According to Mr. Morton.
P.S.—Mr. Morton, it appears, issues the advertisements.
[We cannot give more space to this disouision; if conjurors pass their
lives in consciously or unconsciously misleading the public about that
which is true, theirs is the moral responsibility of such a career, and it is
not likely that a newspaper discussion will influence their acts. The
m idus operandi of their new dark seance has not yet been explained, and*
taat is the only point we care to give space to.—Ed.]
EXTRAORDTKAEY MATERIALISATION PHENOMENA IN
NEWCASTLE.
Sir,—With your permission, I desire, as briefly as possible,
to place before your readers a record of occurrences of a most
marvellous kind that came before my notice on Friday evening
1 ist, June 19th, 1874, in the drawing-room of a merchant in
Hewcastle-on-Tyne, who has recently entered upon the inves¬
tigation of what are termed modern spiritual phenomena, and
wbo kindly asked me to be present as a witness of the pheno¬
mena that might occur. The ladies and gentlemen who had
been invited for eight o’clock did not all arrive before 8.30, at
which time, including the host and hostess, their son, a youth
of about twelve years of age, and their daughter, about nine
years of age, there were sixteen persons present, of whom
four were ladies and twelve gentlemen. With the exception
of two young men, I was personally acquainted with all the
ladies and gentlemen present.
At the first part of the proceedings we all assembled in the
drawing-room, the door of which was locked, and the key was
placed on the piano. Two lady mediums, Miss F. and Miss
W., were placed back to back on chairs, and their bands were
securely strapped to the backs of the chairs. The remainder of
the company formed a circle round the two mediums at a dis¬
tance from them of from four to six feet. I sat opposite to
Miss W., and placed my toes against hers. The gentleman
who sat at the opposite side of the circle did the same to Miss
F. The whole of the persons present then joined hands, and
the gas was turned off. We were then in total darkness. We
sat in darkness for about au hour, and during the whole of
that time, with the exception of slight knockings, in answer
to questions, and talking by one of the lady mediums, who
was supposed to be in a condition of trance, nothing of any
importance occurred, and several who were present felt rather
disappointed at the small results.
We had been told, however, during this hour of quiet, that
the spirits or agents were reserving their power for the next
part of the seance, and whether they were so or not the second
portion of the seance was as remarkable as the first was
uneventful.
I may mention that during the hour of darkness the com¬
pany sung several of the popular hyms and melodies that are
used in Sunday schools and in modern revival meetings.
At this stage of the proceedings of non-results the gas was
again lighted, and the room, furniture, mediums, and specta¬
tors were found exactly in the positions they occupied when
the light was turned off.
After five minutes’ conversation it was agreed that we should
hold a seance for whatjis called the materialisation of spirit forms.
In this second part of the proceedings an arc or curve, con¬
sisting of eight chairs, intended for eight sitters, was formed
across the drawing-room ; the chairs faced the fireplace, and
the distance of the centre chairs from the fireplace was about
ten feet. The stove forming the fireplace was black, and was
surrounded by a broad white marble mantelpiece. On the
mantelpiece was a very large mirror. At each side of the man¬
telpiece is a recess such as is commonly seen in modern
drawing-rooms. Speaking from the position of a spectator
facing the mantelpiece, there was a square table in the left
hand recess, and the right hand recess was draped with long
dark curtains. In front of the recess and curtains there was
a four-folding screen, the third leaf of which was placed upon
a book in order that the fourth leaf next the mantelpiece
might move freely as a door on its hinges. An arm-chair was
placed in the recess, and Miss F. was invited to enter the
recess, and place herself upon the chair.
Prior to the lady entering this extemporised cabinet, I went
in and examined the place carefully, and found an entire
absence of anything except the chair, curtains, and smooth
surface of the screen. Miss F. is a lady apparently about
seventeen years of age, of middle stature, probably five feet
high. She was dressed in an ordinary close-fitting grey dress.
When Miss F. had taken her position in the recess the eight
front chairs were accepted by two ladies, six gentlemen, and
the little girl sat on the knee of the gentleman on my left.
I sat on the fourth chair from the right hand wall of the room,
and, of course, on the fifth from the left-hand wail, there being
eight chairs in the curve. My chair was immediately under
the chandelier, and the curve of eight chairs equally divided
the room. The remaining seven visitors occupied a row of
chairs behind the first row. The entrance to the room was
behind all the sitters, and was kept locked during the whole
proceedings.
Arrangements being complete, and each sitter being in
position, a complete chain was formed by each person grasping
and holding during the whole seance the hands of his neigh¬
bours. The gas was then turned down, so that it merely gave
a glimmering light, but sufficient to enable any person present
to distinguish the objects that were before and about him.
These preliminary arrangements having been made, some of
the popular revival melodies were again sung, and the start¬
ling phenomena of the evening began to present themselves.
My readers must please to bear in mind that Miss F., the
lady in the recess and behind tbe screen, was the only person
in the room who was not held, and certainly was the only
person behind the screen. She is a young lady about five feet
high, and had on her a tight-fitting grey dress.
The light in the room being rendered dim by the gas being
lowered, the company sang, for about five minutes, some of
the popular melodies of the day, when the free leaf of the
screen was seen to move, and a very faintly defined nebulous-
Ipoking small figure glided from behind the screen, and pre¬
sented itself in front of the fire-place: the motion of the
figure was very timid, and it speedily retired. Shortly after
the door of the screen was again opened, and on this occasion
a tall semi-luminous figure, draped from head to foot as
a female, in a luminous gauze-like garb, glided out. The
apparition was very tall, and I had an excellent opportunity of
forming an estimate of its height. I sat opposite the large
mantelpiece mirror, and saw the refieotion of the single gas-
12
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 3, 1874.
light that was burning in the room. The figure glided past
the mirror, and I noticed that when the lower part of the face
and upper part of the neck of the figure crossed the reflection
of the gaslight, the reflection became invisible, proving the
opacity of the figure to the passage of rays of light, and
affording me the means of measuring its height, which
I did at the close of the seance, hy requesting a gentle¬
man present, who was about 5 Jeet 6 inches high, to stand
before the glass, when I found, by such comparison, that
the spectral figure was taller than he, and, therefore,
at least, 6 inches taller than Miss F., the medium.
Several remarkable peculiarities were manifest in the tall
female figure. She or it glided, and did not appear to
walk, but rather to slide noiselessly across the floor.
The figure, when standing immediately before me, was asked
if she were related to any one present, and by three knocks
indication was given that she was. Eventually the figure
intimated by a slow bowing of the head in reply to questions
that she was related to Mr. E., the gentleman who sat on my
extreme left. She was asked by him to come across the room
and speak to him. The figure immediately glided across to
where he sat, and stooping or reclining where he sat, accord¬
ing to the testimony of Mr. B., mentioned to him the name
of his wife. The lady next to Mr. E. heard the whisper, but
did not catch the name. The figure again rose, and stood
opposite to where I sat. She (the figure) was then asked to
give some token to each one present. The figure stooped
down and picked up a tray of buiscuits, and sliding cautiously
forward, tray in hand, presented one to each of the persons in
the front circle, each of whom removed one from the
tray. I took one in each hand, and at the present time have
in my possession the biscuit I took with my right hand. The
figure then glided backwards, and before departing behind
the screen displayed the skirts of her dress, which formed a
train on the carpet extending two feet from her person.
Daring the five or ten minutes that this apparition was before
us, it frequently altered the brilliancy of its semi-luminous
apparel, the upper and lower parts of which were at all times
the most luminous. The bright nebulous-looking skirts
extended from the form a distance of two feet, and gracefully
swept the floor during the time the figure moved about. After
an interval of about two minutes another form appeared from
behind the screen. On this occasion it was the form of a
female child, about four feet high, the head being visible
just above the level of the mantel-piece. This form
glided about in the open space between the sitters and
the mantel-piece, and speedily re-entered the space behind
the screen. In a very brief period another form ap¬
peared, and on this occasion the figure was not the
height of the mantel-piece, being little more than three
feet high. The form was not so distinctly visible as was
that of the tall figure, but nevertheless was easily recognisable.
This figure seemed to draw open the breast of its dress or
covering, and revealed apparently a brownish-black body.
The child-like form was asked to dance, and a pair of small
hazy black feet visible beneath the white skirts of its garments
moved rapidly in the act of dancing on the floor, and I heard
a kind of rythmical beat on the floor, but whether the noise
was produced by the figure or by some one in the room beating
time, I cannot positively say. This figure having retired,
another female figure of ordinary stature, apparently about
five feet in height, made its appearance, and cautiously moved
about the space in front of us. This figure, on being interro¬
gated, intimated by knocks and by bowing the head, that it
was related to some one present. The question, “Are you
related to me?” was asked by each sitter, commencing with
Mr. E. on my extreme left and passed along the circle with
negative answers until it reached Mr. H., who sat two to my
right, when the answer was “Yes.” He said, “Are you my
mother?” and the figure bowed in affirmation. He said,
“ Will you please to shake hands with me, mother ?” The
figure glided across to him, extended its arm, took his hand
and grasped it; finally it raised his hand to its lips and im¬
pressed on it a very audible kiss. The figure then glided back¬
ward and passed behind the screen. After this a masculine
Scottish voice was heard behind the screen, the gas was turned
fully on, the screen was thrown open, and Miss F. was found
in her ordinary costume, sitting in the arm-chair in a
condition of trance, out of which in the course of a few
minutes she came, and this remarkable seance terminated.'
Permit me,in conclusion, to say that I have not the slightest
doubt of the objective reality of the phenomena described,
and that they were not and could not be produced by any
person visibly present in the room.—I am, &c.,
Newcastle-on-Tyne. T. P. Bakkas, F.G-.S.
ME. COGMAN’S SOIEEE.
Sir,—The quarterly gathering of the East London Spirit¬
ualists came off last Sunday evening at 15, St. Peter’s-road,
Mile-end, and may be regarded as a success. The chair was
occupied by Mr. Alsop, an ex-dissenting minister, who in the
apostolic language of the New Testament, referred to what he
had “ seen ” and “ felt ” within his own family circle.
Miss Young and Miss Eagar, trance mediums, were con¬
trolled ; their soul utterances were so simple, so felicitous that
every face present appeared to be lighted up, and to say,
“ This is indeed the gate of heaven.” Short addresses from
Messrs. Cogman, Goss, and Owen were well received.
Mr. Cogman gave the audience to understand that the col¬
lections at his Sunday evening lectures fell far short of the
expenses, and said he felt it his duty to say he would be com¬
pelled to give notice to his landlord on quarter day. At an
adjourned meeting which took place on Monday evening, after
listening to Mr. and Mrs. Cogman, the friends approved of a
proposal that Mr. Owen should send a communication to The
Spiritualist and Medium in the hope that some right-minded
Spiritualist possessing the means would come forward and
lighten the weight of anxiety which interferes so seriously
with the free exercise of Mr. Cogman’s mediumistio powers.
Samuel Owen.
[As it is a most remarkable and praiseworthy thing that Mr. Cogman
should, almost unaided, have kept rooms open, and given [regular lec¬
tures and seances of a creditable character, in a poor neighbourhood at
the East End of London for many years, producing steady and good
results, it is almost a public duty on the part of wealthy Spiritualists to
give him substantial aid, for a more deserving case does not exist in
connection with the movement.—Ed.]
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Error:—In the first article on Church of England Doctrines, the
words—“All that the reader cannot assimilate and digest,”
should have been—“ All that the Keason cannot assimilate and
digest.”
W. H. GILBERT TATE,
PORTRAIT AND LANDSCAPE PHOTOGRAPHER.-
STUDIO45, OHEAPSIDE.
(Opposite Wood-street), London, E.O.
List of Prices. £ s. d.
Album Portraits      6 for 0 5 0
„ „ ... ...   12 „ 0 7 6
„ „ (2 positions) 12 „ 0 9 0
Oroupoftwo   ...   ...  12 „ 0 10 0
Tinting from Is 6d. each extra.
Vignettes ... ...   .".  ... 12 for 0 10 0
Tinted Ovals, “latest”    12 „ 0 12 6
Cameo Vignettes  12 „ 0 15 0
Cabinet Portraits  1 for 3s. 6d. or 6 „ 0 10 6
Drawing Room Portraits, size by 6^  0 10 6
„ „ „ framed and coloured complete... ... 110
The “Cheap ” Vignette Portrait, finished in Crayons, and best gold
frame... ... '  ... complete 2 2 0
Locket Portraits   each 0 2 6
„ „ coloured ■  from 0 3 6
Family Groups, Wedding and Croquet Parties, Invalids and others,
can be Photographed at their own residences, Terms, from £2 2s.
Extract from a Critique in the Photographic News, November 22nd, 1872.
“Mr. W. H. Gilbert Tate, of 45, Cheapside, exhibits a frame of cards con¬
taining some well known portraits, all admirably rendered, rich, brilliant
delicate, skilfully arranged; there are no finer cards in the Exhibition.
Established in Oornhill, 1862.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER; STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
@ SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
July 3, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BKITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOIvlNAMBULIST AND OLAIEVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 9, Somerset-
street, Portman-square, London. W.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everit.t, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon.
Fi'z-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park-square.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square.
Hall, S. O., F.S.A., Avenue-villa, Holland- street, Kensington.
Hohywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple.
Bamsay, Mrs., 46, Branston-square, "W.
Bcss-Church, Mrs. Florence Marryat, 21, Colville-gardens, Kensingston-
park, W.
Senior, Mrs. H.. 67, Eodney-street, Liverpool.
Smith, Martin B, Heathlands, “Wimbledon.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, St. John's-wood
“Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, “W. N„ Eden-villa, Caims-road, N.E.
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford.
Beattie, John, 2, Biehmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Beigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B. A., Bed-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, “W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dinsdale, Joseph, 15, Caird-street, “West Derby-road, Liverpool.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Bichard, 34. “Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North,
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Glynes, Webster, F.O.A.S , 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Hill-side, Streatham, S.W.
Harper, Bobert, 6, South-street, Finsbury, E.C.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent.
Humphries, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislingbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bays water, W.
Lewis, Charles Mansel, J.P., United University Club, S.W., and Stradey,
Llanelly, Carmarthenshire.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex,
Mawson, W. B, 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W, D., care of T. Everitt, Holders-bill, Hendon.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., United University Club, S.W.
Pearce, 0. W., F.8.S, 14. Burnley-road, Stockwell, S. W.
Bogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
Sexton, George, 17, Trafalgar-road, old Kent-road, S.E.
Shepherd, J., Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Snelljjig, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, B. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., IS, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL,M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Attenberg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W, {Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. {Foreign Corres¬
pondence.) .
Assistant Secretary.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, 12, High-street, Bow., E.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emils de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Bussie, Nieder Walluf on the Bhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vsy, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Bobert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
J. Biko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hummontou, New Jersey, U.S.
The Bev. J- Tyerman, Editor of the Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne,
A ustralia.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Bue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychaud Mitira, 7, Swallow lane, Calcutta.
Joseph Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Bussell street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid,
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Bue de Borne, Paris.
W. Lindesay Richardson, Australia.
MJLeymarie, M.D., Paris,
Dr. Nehrer, Vienna,
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.;' at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bemard-street, Bussell-square. Private Seances attended.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—10, Berkeley-gardens,
Oampden-hill, Kensington.
MR. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again onen to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-roid, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 161, Hampstead-
road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms, on applica*
ion by letter.
JV. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. BsaitTER your Lexters.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
lO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
TO THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitfs Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.”) Published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
"YMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82, St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbiadiog, Printing, &c. Circulating library, wall supplied with all the
mo iern magazines aud reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept pn sale.
PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to. Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size. Is.
COMPANION or GOVERNESS in a Spiritualist’s Family.
28 years of age. Acquirements—English in all Branches. Drawing
Heads in Crayon and Perspective Landscape from Nature. German, lived
one year in Germany. French, Italian, Music, and Needlework. Good
References. Address C. S., Morley’s Library, Forest-hill, London.
VISITORS to LONDON will find Comfortable Bedrooms
and Good Attendance at Mrs. Jackson’s Table dCHote. Moderate
Charges. 3, Torrington-sireet, Torrington-square, London, W.C.
TO SPIRITUALISTS AND OTHERS.—All who desire
to read the literature of Spiritualism and other progressive moves
ments, should subscribe to the
“ PIONEER OF PROGRESS ” LIBRARY,
Which contains a large collection of Spiritual and other Progres¬
sive Works. Additions of new and choice books are being made
daily.
Terms: £1 Is. per annum. 10s. 6d. Half yearly. 2s. Monthly. Cata¬
logues 3d each.
All applications for membership to be made by letter to the Editor,
Office oi the Pioneer of Progress, 4, Kingsgate-street, High Holborn,
London, W.O.
A GENTLEMAN who is a
great healing power, residing
Spiritualist, and possesses
in a'healthy locality amongst the
Derbyshire hills, having undertaken the charge of a gentleman suffering
fiom sun stroke, desires to meet with another patient stmewhat similarly
affected. Terms moderate. For further particulars apply to “H” care of
Mr. F. A. Bioney, Solicitor, 22, St. Anns squar’e, Manchester.
MBUGUET begs to announce to bis country patrons
• that carte de visite portraits are taken at 33, Baker-street, Portman-
square, during his stay in London, for the reproduction of deceased friends
or relatives. Price, with portrait of the sitter, 30s.
IV
THE SPIKITUALIST.
July 3, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
*“H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., GK Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G-. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3, That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One.of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Just published,
The second volume of. “what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
CHAP.
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. Supersensuous Percep
tioh.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism
IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psvchic Force. IL Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. III. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAY BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: Longman & Co Paternoster-row.
SUPERNATURAL PHENOMENA.
TESTS ADAPTED TO DETERMINE
THE TRUTH OF
SUPERNATURAL PHENOMENA.
BY GEORGE HARRIS, F.S.A.,
BARRISTER AT LAW;
Fellow of the London Anthropological Society; late president of the
Manchester Anthropological Society; late Vice-President of the An-
thropologicrl Institute of Great Britain and Ireland; Foreign Fehow
of the Anthropological Institute of New York; Fellow of the Royal
Historical Society; and Author of “ Civilisation Considered as a
Science;” “ The Theory of the Arts,” &c.
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Of the Intelligent Motive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambulism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
12. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon¬
sciousness.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, 'with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
Sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,"
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?" When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
Toe best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first'sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
“ They are more excusable who believe in apparitions than those who re¬
ject all extraordinary revelations of this kind, contrary to the reports of all
historians, sacred and profane, ancient and modern, and to tbe traditions
of all nations; and think the appearance of spirits are fabulous and ground¬
less.”—Addision.
A PAPER READ BEFORE THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL SOCIETY, AT THEIR
ROOMS, 37, ARUNDEL STREET, STRAND, 3rd, FEBRUARY, 1874.
{Published by Request.)
PRICE SIXPENCE.
London: Balliere, Tindall, and Cox. King William-street, Charing-cross.
INSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press.
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted oh the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or What¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstrase
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Olasgow Herald.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso
phical and high-class character.'’—Spiritualist.
The address quite riveted the attention of the audience."—Eastbourne
Chronicle.
“ He spoke for nearly an hour-and-a-half. Not a hitch occurred. The
address was more or less argumentative throughout, in parts it was really
eloquent.”—Brighton Guardian.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
All letters should be addressed to his private residence, Warwick Cottage,
Old Ford, Bow, E.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(B’rom Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER. LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapersand Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Ne\vspaper_
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborp Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St-Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lano London, E.C.
