Registered as a Newspaper.
Sj^f) joiffCK®^ ^^YdSo^oG^idS^ ^dis<>fci^.
&§£ #Ib.esf wrpit&ir toiilj Spiritualism m d&tmi §ntaiit.
THE “SPIRITUALISE” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque, 246, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: a, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: g6, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 3ig, Kearney-street.
No. 235. (VOL. X.—No. 8.) LONDON: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontents.
The Prosecution of Mediums by a Conservative Govern¬
ment  ...       85
A ConversaUpn with the Spirit of a Dying Woman  85
Correspondence:—Thomas Lake Harris—The Medium
Influencing Spirits—Spiritualism Popularised: What
then!—The • Mental Opacity of One Mind to the
Thoughts of Another—A Theory Relating to Evil
Influences—AJFable—A Letter from M. Leymarie—Dr.
Slade—Public Reading Rooms     ... 88
Mediums and the Law. By Charles Carleton Massey 89
National Association Seances...    90
Inquirers’ Seances. By Elizabeth Fitz-Gerald   .90
“ The Spiritualist ” Fund   ... 91
Dr. Monck...    ... ... ...   ... 91
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—Synchronous
Dreaming—Cerebral Psychology 91
The National Conference of Spiritualists for 1877
A Paper by Mr. A, J. Smart—Experiences with Haunting
Spirits'  ...  92
The Discussion—House Hauntings at Port Glasgow—An
Obsessed Medium  ...   93
A Paper by Mrs. Louisa Lowe—The Ends, Aims and
Uses of Modern Spiritualism—Spiritualism in its Re¬
ligious Aspects 93
The Discussion—The Religious Aspects of Spiritualism 94
A Paper by Mr. G. F. Green—The Identity of the Com¬
municating Spirits —What Constitutes Evidence of
Identity?       94
The Discussion—Appearance of the Spirits of Persons
Still Living in the Body   ... ...   96
PoetryYou Ask Me Why ?”...!   96
A Spirit Form  ... 96
Paragraphs:—Passed to Spirit Life, 85; Dark Seances, 90;
Dr. Slade, 90; Clairvoyance, 91; Premonitions, 96;
Mediumship among the American Indians  96
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, W.C.
Entrance in Woburn Street.
THE HEADING BOOM AND LIBEAEY
Are open to members and inquirers from 10.30 a.m., to
9 p.m. Newspapers and periodicals relating to Spiritualism
from all parts of the world, as well as other high class journals
are regularly taken in.
The library contains a large collection of the best works on
Spiritualism and occult subjects, including some very rare and
valuable ones; also various works on historical, speculative,
and scientific subjects, by the best authors. A Lending
Library has also been formed.
Terms: One Guinea a year includes membership, use of
reading room and library, and two books from the lending
library; and entitles all other members of the same family
residing in tha same house, and who are also members of the
Association, to share in the above privileges. Half-a-Guinea
a year includes membership, and one book from the lending
library. Five Shillings a quarter entitles non-members to the
use of the reading room and library, and also of the lending
library.
Free seances for inquirers have been instituted through the
liberality of some of the members, admission to which may be
obtained through any member, or on application to the
secretary.
Suitable rooms may be hired on moderate terms for seances,
with cabinet, &c., and also for committee or other meetings.
Light refreshments are provided at moderate charges, s
Inquirers and foreign Spiritualists visiting England are
cordially invited to visit the rooms, and the secretary will be
happy to afford them any information in her power.
Communications should be addressed to the resident secre¬
tary, Miss Emily Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.,
and Post-office orders made payable at the Great Russell-street
Post-office.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record qf the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-A oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual
sts in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions ui its columns are Mr. O. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement oi Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness ;NHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S. Lord Lindsay; the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. C. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man (Australia): Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charies
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory-the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci.,Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital: Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. JohnE. Purdon.M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn ;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jendken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling¬
bury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles !(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United;Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, '4 dels. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT-LAND.—Being
Life-Experiences, Scenes, Incidents, and Conditions
illustrative of Spirit-Life and the principles of the Spiritual
Philosophy. Of practical value to any who are anxious to
study the theories of Spiritualists and Mediums, for the purpose
of’ deducing a consistent system of faith concerning the
future, its rewards and punishments, &u., as it establishes a
basis in reason for its propositions, and asks no blind accep¬
tance of statements, but enjoins the strictest analysis of them.
Given inspirationally through Mrs. Maria M. King. Cloth,
5s. 6d, Spiritualist newspaper branch office.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
SEANCES.
A new series of Free Circles for Inquirers, tickets for which
can be purchased by Members at a nominal charge, are now
held weekly, on Thursdays, at 38, Great Russell-street, at
8 p.m. precisely.
Private Seances for Members and Subscribers only are held
every Tuesday evening at 8 p.m. Tickets, 2s. 6d. each. Appli¬
cation for tickets must in all cases be made in advance.
E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
FORTNIGHTLY MEETINGS.
The next Fortnightly Meeting of the British National
Association of Spiritualists will be held on Monday, March
5th, at 8 p.m. Subject:—“Physical Science and Spiritual
Psychology,’’ by D. G. Fitz-Gerald, M.S.TeLE.
The meetings are free to Members and their friends.
E. KISLINGBURY, Secretary.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c., apply
to—
H. E. FRANCES, Hon. SeO.
Leigh spiritualists* association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
NOTICE TO SPIRITUALISTS ONLY.
MR. W. EGLINTON has arranged for another
seance at Mrs. Olive’s, 15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry's-
road, N.W., on Wednesday, March 14th, 1877. Tickets, 5s., of
Mrs. Olive.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAYENSCR0FT, Manager,
RALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
President.
HENRY D. JENCKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
Council.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
acts aflecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to spscial seances with professional media, lectures, discus*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences »f investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of the
Association have: the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
formation of circles and conduct of seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on appheation to the
honorary secretary. .
Subscription for Ordinary Membership .‘—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payable in advance
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EAST LONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Quebec hall, 25, great quebec-
STREET, MARYLEBONE-ROAD.—Anniversary Tea¬
meeting and Soiree.—On Sunday, the 25th inst, a tea-meeting
will he held, and, during intervals in the evening, vocal and
instrumental selections will be performed; tea at 5 o’clock.
On the Monday evening following, a soiree will be held, to
celebrate the Anniversary of the Marylebone Association. The
programme will consist of ballads, choruses, readings, and
instrumental solos; to conclude with dancing. Tickets, to
admit to both evenings, Is. 6d.; tickets for either Sunday or
Monday, Is.—Drake and Tilby, Hon. Secs.
THE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE. —A com¬
plete set of this valuable work for sale, in 17 vols.—
1860—76. Eleven vols. bound half calf, marble edges; the
remaining six unbound. Price £5 5s. Address—S. B. Field,
13, Ampton-street, Gray’s-inn-road, W.C.
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE : described by
a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp oloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Spiritualist Newspaper
Branch Office.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modem Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
strqet, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 23, 1877,
PRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S .W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Rogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason. James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Hyde-park, W.
Council.
•Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill,
Binney, F A.,24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. K., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.jj
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe.N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd,’J. T., Lynwood, Soutliern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G.,M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glehdinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hook,C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park. S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivjrney, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I C.E , Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Kichard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, .vi rs. E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
r >ac;, S E
Stra vtirdge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Redcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stocjtj St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W,
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Poste Restante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr. J. H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Ills Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Vevoy,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rasslm Pacha, Ethan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdj 6 Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Yon Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma fiardinge-Britten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
; M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
GregouC. Wittig, Esq., Kprnerstrasse 2b, Leipsic, Germany.*
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
,M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. ■
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson.Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount VernOn-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes.Esq., 5,Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Uhinuery, Esq-, 2, Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de 1’Athenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan,Esq., 30,Upper Gloucester-plaee, Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain R. F Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S„ Rosehill, Dorking
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Fuel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Strata, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers,
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Newlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H.E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josef stadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
SociedadjEspirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38} GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vau&han, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
he practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 1876.
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Arc, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
npHE SPIRITUAL MAGAZINE, EDITED BY
X GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin^Harshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London :—Simekin, Marshall & Co.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book” will he published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 600 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. 'Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.C. -
MRS. OLIYE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
MR. j. J. . MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E,
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
R. DE CAUX, Mesmeric Healer, and
Medical Galvinist, attends upon patients at their own
residence, or at his rooms—35, Alfred-street, Bedford-square,
London, W.C. *
RS. KANE AT HOME Tuesdays, Thurs¬
days, and Saturdays from three to five o'clock.—34
Guildford-street, Russell-square, London, W.O.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB'S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &e. Address, “Spiritualist,” 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manages—Mes. a. C. Bubke
DR. SLADE.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OP Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
HIGH was given for and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin: Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. O. O. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. G. C. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Slade.—2jd., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI-
k3 CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, II, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-plaee, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
ANTED, A SITUATION as CLERK,
ACCOUNTANT, or MANAGER OF SHOP. Good
references; used to the book and newspaper trade; by E. W.
Wallis, 15, St, Peter’s-road, Mile-end-road, E.
Jt tl nnb tl ^jtijjilunKsm*
Vojlujvie Tej^. Kumber ElQHT.
LONDON, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23rd, 1877.
THE PROSECUTION OF MEDIUMS BY A CONSERVATIVE
GOVERNMENT.
There are some serious questions in connection with the
recent prosecutions of mediums, for the solution of which
Spiritualists are looking to the organised bodies which have
the public business of the Spiritualistic movement in hand.
A letter from the Secretary of State has been sent to the
National Association of Spiritualists, intimating that no un¬
usual steps have been taken by the Government in relation
to the prosecution of mediums. But is it not a fact that
when a Justice’s decision is appealed against, the usual
custom of the Treasury is to employ but a single ordinary
barrister at a moderate fee, and not two celebrated counsel—
one of them a member of Parliament—at great ex¬
pense to the nation? Further, when such large expenses
are incurred, is it not usual that the Crown shall allow
but an ordinary counsel’s small fee, and leave the
prosecution to pay the balance ? Again, in the Lawrence
case there was no appeal; and is it not a fact that at the
last Clerkenwell Sessions cases of fraud involving large
sums of money were heard without the Government taking
up the prosecution at all; whereas, when Lawrence was
accused of cheating a man out of a shilling, not only did the
Crown take up the case on the opposition side, but at very
great expense to the nation? If these things be so, the
further question arises, how much of the public money has
been thus spent over the Lawrence, Monck and Slade cases,
and over the forthcoming proceedings in relation to the
Slade case, inaugurated by Mr. Staveley Hill ? In all these
instances not only the sums paid to the Crown barristers,
but to the solicitors should be ascertained. If these finan¬
cial particulars are not easily accessible to the public, the
serious political question will arise: “ How is it that the
Government of the day does not render up an account of
its stewardship to the owners of the property entrusted to
•its care, namely, the taxpayers of this country ? ” There is
no more unprofitable and unsatisfactory way of spending
the national funds, contributed by the industrious, than in
law, and as there are too many lawyers in the legislature, it
would be well to examine the public accounts in relation to
legal expenditure.
After the answers to these questions have been ascertained,
and if it should become clear that a very unusual course has
been taken in relation to mediums, it will be necessary to
consider in what way the facts of the case shall be dealt
with. Possibly the Government may not be aware of any
mismanagement in some of its departments, in which case
the proper authority to which to resort is the present Cabi¬
net, which as yet, so far as we know, has had nothing to
do with any dishonourable line of conduct in relation to
Spiritualism. But if an unusual line of action, of an un¬
justifiable nature, has been taken, and afterwards officially
endorsed by the Government, the further question will
arise, whether representations on the subject shall be
made to Mr. Gladstone and the Liberal party, or whether,
by pamphlet and by placard, the particulars shall be pub¬
lished all over the country for the information of the public;
or, again, whether Spiritualists shall take political action,
and make their influence felt at elections by their votes.
At present the latter course of action is to be deprecated, for it
would be better to continue to work upon the old plan of letting
Spiritualism be dealt with as a science by thoughtful people
who do not care for notoriety, and who avoid the arenas of
theological and political contention.
Passed to Spirit Life.—On theTlth instant, at home (Veles, Snod-
land, Kent), after fourteen days’ illness of rheumatic fever, Charles
Townsend Hook, eldest son of Anna Maria and the late Samuel Hook,
beloved and lamented by all who knew him.
!j A CONVERSATION WITH THE SPIRIT OF A DYING WOMAN.
To the Editor of the 11 Spiritualist”
Sir,—Having seen in the Spiritualist an account of the
I apparition of Major Blomberg, it reminded me that I had
j an account in my possession of a similar event, which
| occurred in 1705. The account is given in an old work
I entitled u The Christian’s Defence against Death, with sea-
| sonable directions how to prepare ourselves to die well, by
| the late reverend divine of the Protestant Church of Paris,
I Charles Drelincourt, with an account of the author and his
| last minutes, and a true revelation of the apparition of
| Mrs. Yeal after her death to Mrs. Bargrave.” Such is the
| complete title-page of the work.
The printers of the book were Nuttal, Fisher, and Dixon,
I Duke-street, Liverpool, and mine is the twenty-ninth edition.
I The account of the apparition follows the preface to the work.
; It is not Drelincourt himself who writes the account, but
| the apparition in conversation with Mrs. Bargrave recom-
| mended the work of Drelincourt for perusal, so it appeared
| wise to the publishers to print the narrative about the
! apparition in the said edition. The following is the full
| version:—
“ A True Relation of the Apparition of one Mrs. Veal,
] the next day after her death, to one Mrs. Bargrave, at
| Canterbury, § .of September, 1705, which apparition recom*
j mends the perusal of Drelincourt's Book of Consolations
| against the Fears of Death.
“ This relation is matter of fact, and attended with such cir-
| cumstances as may induce any reasonable man to believe it;
| it was sent by a gentleman, a Justice of the Peace at Maid-
| stone, in Kent, and a very intelligent person, to his friend
| in London, as it is here worded, which discourse is attested
| by a very understanding and sober gentlewoman, a kins-
| woman of the said gentleman’s, who lives in Canterbury,
| within a few doors of the house in which the within-named
j Mrs. Bargrave lived; who believes his kinswoman to be of
| so discerning a spirit as not to be put upon by any fallacy;
j and who positively assured him that the whole matter, as
| it is related and laid down, is really true, and what she her-
! self had in the same words (as near as may be) from Mrs.
| Bargrave’s own mouth, who, she knows, had no reason to
| invent and publish such a story, or any design to forge and tell
| a lie, being a woman of much honesty and virtue, and her
| whole life a course, as it were, of piety. The use which we
] ought to make of it is to consider that there is a life to
| come after this, and a just God, who will retribute to every
| one according to his deeds done in the body; and, therefore,
| to reflect upon our past course of life we have led in the
| world, that our time is short and uncertain, and that if we
| should escape the punishment of the ungodly and receive
| the reward of the righteous which is the laying hold of
| eternal life, we ought for the time to come to return to God
| by a speedy repentance, ceasing to do evil and learning to
| do well; to seek after God early, if happily He may be
| found of us, and lead such lives for the future as maybe well-
I pleasing in His sight.
a This thing is so rare in all its circumstances, and so
i good authority, that my reading has not given me anything
| like it; it is fit to gratify the most ingenious and serious
I inquirer. Mrs. Bargrave is the person to whom Mrs. Yeal
| appeared after her death; she is my intimate friend, and I
j can vouch for her reputation for this last fifteen or sixteen
j years, on my knowledge, and I can confirm the good cha-
! racter she had from her youth to the time of my acquaint-
j ance with her, though since this relation she is calumniated
i by some people that are friends to the brother of Mrs. Ypal
| who appeared, who think the relation of this appear-
i ance to be a reflection, and endeavour what they can to
1 blast Mrs. Bargrave’s reputation, and to laugh the story
' 86
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 23, 1877.
out of countenance; but by the circumstances thereof and
the cheerful disposition of Mrs. Bargrave, notwithstanding
the ill usage of a very wicked husband, there is not the
least sign of dejection in her face, nor did I ever hear her
let fall a desponding or murmuring expression—nay, not
when actually under her husband’s barbarity, which I have
been witness to, and several other persons of undoubted
reputation.
“ Now you must know Mrs. Veal was a maiden gentle¬
woman of about thirty years of age, and for some
years last past had been troubled with fits, which were
perceived coming on by her going off her discourse very
abruptly to some impertinence. She was maintained by an
only brother, and kept his house in Dover. She was a very
pious woman, and her brother a very sober man to all ap¬
pearance ; but now he does all he can to null or quash the
story. Mrs. Veal was intimately acquainted with Mrs.
Bargrave from her childhood; Mrs. Veal’s circumstances
were then mean, for her father did not take care of his
children as he ought, so that they were exposed to hard¬
ships, and Mrs. Bargrave, in those days had an unkind
father, though she wanted neither for food nor clothing,
whilst Mrs. Veal wanted for both, inasmuch that she would
often say : 4 Mrs. Bargrave, you are not only the best but
the only friend that I have in the world; and no circum¬
stances in this life shall ever dissolve my friendship.’ They
would often condole each other’s adverse fortune, and read
together Drelincourt on Death) and other good books, and
so like Christian friends they comforted each other much
in their sorrow. Some time after Mr. Veal’s friends got
him a place in the Custom House at Dover, which occa¬
sioned Mrs. Veal little by little to fall off from her intimacy
with Mrs. Bargrave, though there never was any such thing
as a quarrel; but an indifference came on by degrees, till at
last Mrs. Bargrave had not seen her in two years and a-half,
though about a twelvemonth of the time she had been
absent from Dover, and this last half-year had been in
Canterbury, about two months of the time dwelling in a
house of her own.
“ In this house, on the eighth of September, one thousand
seven hundred and five, she was sitting alone in the fore¬
noon, thinking over her unfortunate life and arguing herself
into a due resignation to Providence, though her condition
seemed hard. ‘ And,’ said she, ‘ I have been provided for
hitherto, and doubt not but I shall be still, and am well
satisfied that my afflictions shall end when it is most fit for
me,’ and then took up her sewing work, which she had no
sooner done than she hears a knocking at the door. She
went to see who was there, and this proved to be Mrs. Veal,
her old friend, who was in a riding habit. At that moment
of time the clock struck twelve at noon.
u i Madam,’ says Mrs. Bargrave, * I am surprised to see
you ; you have been so long a stranger; ’ but told her she
was glad to see her, and offered to salute her, which Mrs.
Veal complied with, till their lips almost touched; and then
Mrs. Veal drew her hand across her own eyes and said, i I
am not very well,’ and so waived it. She told Mrs. Bar¬
grave she was going a journey, and that she had a great
mind to see her first. f But,’ says Mrs. Bargrave, ‘ how
came you to take a journey alone ? I am amazed at it! be¬
cause I know you have a fond brother ? ’ 1 Oh,’ says Mrs.
Veal, ‘ I gave my brother the slip, and came away, because
I had such a great desire to see you before I took my
journey.’ So Mrs. Bargrave went in with her into another
room within the first, and Mrs. Veal sat down in an elbow
chair in which Mrs. Bargrave was sitting, when she heard
Mrs. Veal knock. Then, says Mrs. Veal: ‘ My dear friend,
I am come to renew our old friendship again, and to beg
your pardon for the breach of it; and if you can forgive me
you are the best of women ? ’ 1 Oh,’ said Mrs. Bargrave,
4 do not mention such a thing; I have not had an uneasy
thought about it; I can easily forgive you.’ 4 What did you
think of me ? ’ says Mrs. Veal. Says Mrs. Bargrave : 41
thought you was like the rest of the world—that prosperity
had made you forget yourself and me.’ Then Mrs. Veal
reminded Mrs. Bargrave of the many friendly offices
she did her in former days, and much of the con¬
versation they had with each other in the time
of their adversity, what books they read, and what comfort
11 they in particular received from Drelincourt’s book on
!| Death, which was the best, she said, on that subject ever
>j written. She also mentioned Dr. Sherlock, the two Dutch
>j books which were translated, written upon Death, and
II several others; but Drelincourt, she said, had the clearest
| notions of death and of the future state of any that had
I handled that subject. Then she asked Mrs. Bargrave if she
I had Drelincourt; she said 4 Yes.’ Says Mrs. Veal,4 Fetch
j it,’ and so Mrs. Bargrave goes up stairs and brings it down.
! Says Mrs. Veal, 4 Dear Mrs. Bargrave, if the eyes of our
| faith were as open as the eyes of our body, we should see
! numbers of angels about us for our guard; the notions we
| have of heaven now are nothing like what it is, as Drelin-
| court says; therefore be comforted under your afflictions,
| and believe that the Almighty has a particular regard for
| you, and that your afflictions are marks of God’s favour, and
| when they have done the business they are sent for they
| shall be removed from you. And believe, my dear friend,
j believe what I say to you. One minute of future happiness
I will infinitely reward you for all your sufferings ; for I can
! (and then clasps her hands upon her knees with great
I earnestness, which indeed ran through most of her discourse)
| 4 never believe that God will allow you to spend all your
I days in this afflicted state ; but be assured that your afflic-
| tions will leave you, or you them, in a short time.’ She
| spoke in that pathetical and heavenly manner that Mrs.
| Bargrave wept several times, she was so deeply affected with
i it. Then Mrs. Veal mentioned Dr. Horneck’s Ascetic, at the
| end of which he gives an account of the primitive Christians.
| Their pattern she recommended to our imitation, and said,
| 4 Their conversation was not like this of our age, for now,’
| says she, 4 there is nothing but frothy, vain discourse, which
! is far different from theirs ; theirs was to edification and to
| build one another up in faith, so that they were not as we
| are, nor we as they were; but,’ said she, 4 we ought to do
| as they did. There was a hearty friendship amongst them.
{ But where is it now to be found ?’ Says Mrs. Bargrave :
| 4 It is hard indeed to find a true friend in these days.’ Says
Mrs. Veal, 4 Mr. Norris has a fine copy of verses called
Friendship in Perfection) which I wonderfully admire. Have
you seen the book ?’ says Mrs. Veal. 4 No,’ says Mrs.
Bargrave, 4 but I have the verses of my own writing out.’
4 Have you ? ’ says Mrs. Veal, 4 then fetch them,’ which
she did from above stairs, and offered them to Mrs. Veal to
read, who refused and waived the thing, saying holding down
her head would make it ache; and then desired Mrs. Bar¬
grave to read them for her, which she did. As they were
admiring friendship Mrs. Veal said: 4 These poets have
such names for heaven.’ She would often draw her hand
across her eyes and say : 4 Mrs. Bargrave, do not you think
that I am mightily impaired by my fits ?’ 4 No,’ says
Mrs. Bargrave; 41 think you look as well as ever I knew
you.’ After all this discourse, which the apparition put in
much finer words than she, Mrs. Bargrave, said she could
pretend to, and as much more than she could not remember
(for it cannot be thought that an hour and three-quarters
conversation could be retained, though the main of it she
thinks she does), she said to Mrs. Bargrave she would have
her write a letter to her brother, and tell him she would
have him give rings to such and such, and that there was a
purse of gold in her cabinet, and that she would have two
broad pieces given to her cousin Watson. Talking at this
rate, Mrs. Bargrave thought that a fit was coming upon her,
and so placed herself in a chair just before her knees to keep
her from falling to the ground if her fits should occasion it
(for the elbow chair, she thought, would keep her from fall¬
ing on either side), and to divert Mrs. Veal, as she thought,
took hold of her gown sleeve and commended it. Mrs.
Veal told her it was a scoured silk, and newly made up ; but
for all this Mrs. Veal persisted in her request, and told Mrs.
Bargrave she must not deny her, and she would have her
tell her brother all their conversation when she had
opportunity. 4 Dear Mrs. Veal,’ says Mrs. Bargrave, 4 this
seems so impertinent that I can’t tell how to comply with it,
and what a mortifying story our conversation will be to a
young gentleman. 4 Why,’ says Mrs. Bargrave, 4 it is much
better, methinks you should do it yourself.’ 4 No,’ says
Mrs. Veal, 4 though it may seem impertinent to you now ;
you will see more reason for it hereafter, Mrs. Bargrave
Feb. 23, 1877." THE SPIRITUALIST. 87
then, to satisfy her importunity, was going to fetch a pen |
and ink. 4 But,’ says Mrs. Yeal, 4 let it alone now, but |
do it when I am gone, but you must be sure to do it,’ I
which was one of the last things she enjoined at her j
parting, and so she promised her. !
“Then Mrs. Yeal asked for Mrs. Bargrave’s daughter, j
She said she was not at hoine, ‘but if you have a mind to I
see her I will send for her.’ ‘Do,’ says Mrs. Yeal, on |
which she left her and went into a neighbour’s house to see |
for her, and by the time Mrs. Bargrave was returning Mrs. !
Veal was got without the door into the street, in the face H
of the beast market, on a Saturday, which is market day, |
and stood ready to part as soon as Mrs. Bargrave came to !
her. She asked her why she was in such haste. She j
said she must be going, though, perhaps she might not j
be going her journey until Monday, and told Mrs. Bargrave j
she hoped that she might see her again at her cousin Wat- |
son’s before she went whither she was going. Then she !
said she would take her leave of her, and walked from j
Mrs. Bargrave in her view till a turning interrupted the j
sight of her, which was three-quarters after one in the I
afternoon. -Mrs. Yeal died on the 7th of September, at |
twelve o’clock at noon, of her fits, and had not above four |
hours’ senses before death, in which time she received the I
sacrament. !
“ The next day after, Mrs. Yeal appearing, being Sunday, I
Mrs. Bargrave was mightily indisposed with a cold and a - j
sore throat, and she could not go out that day; but on !
Monday morning she sent a person to Captain Watson’s j
to know if Mrs. Yeal was there. They wondered at Mrs. |
Bargrave’s inquiry, and sent her word that she was not I
there, nor expected. At this answer of Mrs. Bargrave, she j
said the maid had most certainly mistook the name or made I
some blunder, and though she was ill she put on her hood, |
and went to Capt. Watson’s herself, though she knew none of j
the family, to see whether Mrs. Yeal was there or not. They |
said they wondered at her asking, for that she had not been j
in town; they were sure if she had she would have been |
there. Says Mrs. Bargrave, ‘I am sure on Saturday j
she was with me almost two hours.’ They said it. j
was impossible, for they must have seen her if she j
had. In comes Captain Watson while they were in dis- !
pute, and said that Mrs. Yeal was certainly dead, and her j
escutcheons were making. This strangely surprised Mrs. j
Bargrave, when she sent to the person immediately who had |
the care of them, and found it true. Then she related the I
whole story to Captain Watson’s family, and what gown j
she had on, and how striped, and that Mrs. Yeal told her j
it was scoured. Then Mrs. Watson called out‘You have j
seen her indeed, for none knew but Mrs. Yeal and myself j
that the gown was scoured, ‘and Mrs. Watson owned that |
she described the gown exactly, ‘ for,’ said she, ‘I helped K
her to make it up.’ ||
This Mrs. Watson blazed all about the town, and avouched \)
the demonstration of the truth of Mrs. Bargrave seeing j
Mrs. Yeal’s apparition, and Captain Watson carried two |
gentlemen immediately to Mrs. Bargrave’s house to hear the |>
relation from her own mouth. And when it spread so fast |
that gentlemen and persons of quality, the judicious and I
sceptical' part of the world, flocked in upon her, it at last j )
became such a task that she was forced to go out of the \l
way, for they were in general extremely satisfied with the !
truth of the thing, and plainly saw that Mrs. Bargrave was j
no hypochondrine; for she always appears with such a !
cheerful air and pleasing mien that she has gained the !
favour and esteem of all the gentry, and it is thought a ||
great favour if they can but get the relation from her own ji
mouth. I should have told you before that Mrs. Yeal told I
Mrs. Bargrave that her sister and brother-in-law were just ||
come down from London to see her. Says Mrs. Bargrave: |
‘ How came you to order matters so strangely.’ ‘ It could i)
not be helped,’ said Mrs. Yeal; and her brother and sister i)
did come to see her, and just entered the town of Dover is
when Mrs. Yeal was expiring. Mrs. Bargrave asked her |
whether she would drink some tea. Says Mrs. Yeal: ‘I !
do not care if I do, but I’ll warrant you that this mad
fellow (her husband) has broken all your trinkets.’ ‘But,’ |j
says Mrs. Bargrave, ‘ I’ll get something to drink in for all j
that.’ But Mrs. Veal waived it, and"said: ‘ It’s no matter;
let it alone ;’ and so it passed.
“ All the time I sat with Mrs. Bargrave, which was some
hours, she recollected fresh sayings of Mrs. Yeal’s. Mrs.
Bargrave never varies in her story, which puzzles those who
doubt the truth, or are unwilling to believe it. One
material thing more. She told Mrs. Bargrave that old Mr.
Breton allowed Mr. Yeal £10 a year, which was a secret,
and unknown to Mrs. Bargrave until Mrs. Yeal told it her.
A servant in the neighbour’s yard, adjoining Mrs. Bargrave’s
house, heard her talking an hour of the time Mrs. Yeal was
with her. Mrs. Bargrave went out to her next neighbour’s
the very next moment Mrs. Yeal was parted with her, and
told her what ravishing conversation she had had with an
old friend, and told the whole of it. Drelincourt’s book of
Death is, since this happened, brought up strangely, and it
is to be observed that, notwithstanding all the trouble and
fatigue Mrs. Bargrave has undergone on this account, she
never took the value of one farthing, nor suffered her
daughter to take anything of anybody, and therefore can
have no interest in telling the story. But Mr. Yeal does
what he can to stifle the matter, and said he would see Mrs.
Bargrave, but yet it is certain matter of fact that he has
been at Captain Watson’s since the death of his sister, and
never went near Mrs. Bargrave. Some of his friends re¬
port her to be a liar, and that she knew of Mr. Breton’s
£10 a year, but the person who pretends to say so has the
reputation of a notorious liar amongst persons which I
know to be of undoubted credit. Now Mr. Veal is more of
a gentleman than to say she lies, but says a bad husband
has crazed her; but she needs only to present herself, and
it will confute that pretence. Mr. Yeal says he asked his
sister on her death-bed whether she had a mind to dispose
of anything, and she said, ‘ No.’ Now the things which
Mrs. Veal’s apparition would have disposed of were so
trifling that nothing of justice is aimed at in their disposal;
the design of it appears to me to be only in order to make
Mrs. Bargrave so to demonstrate the truth of her appear¬
ance as to satisfy the world of the reality thereof, as to what
she had seen and heard, and to secure her reputation amongst
the reasonable and understanding part of mankind. And
then, again, Mr. Veal owns that there was a purse of gold,
but it was not found in her cabinet, but in a comb-box.
This looks improbable, for that Mrs. Watson owns that Mrs,
Yeal was so very careful of the cabinet that she would trust
nobody with it, and if so, no doubt she would not trust her
gold out of it. And Mrs. Yeal drawing her hand over her
eyes, and asking Mrs. Bargrave whether fits had impaired
her, looks to me as if she did it on purpose, to remind Mrs.
Bargrave of her fits, to prepare her not to think it strange
that she should put her upon writing to her brother to dis¬
pose of rings and gold, which looks so much like a dying
person’s request. It took accordingly with Mrs. Bargrave, as the
effect of her fits coming upon her, and was one of many
instances of her wonderful love to her, and care of her, that
she should not be affrightened; which, indeed, appear in
her whole management, particularly in her coming to her
in the day-time, waiving the salutation, and when she was
alone. And then the manner of her parting, to prevent a
second attempt to salute her. Now, why Mr. Yeal should
think this relation a reflection (as it is plain he does by his
endeavours to stifle it) I cannot imagine, because the gene¬
rality believe her to be a good spirit, because her discourse
was so heavenly. Her two great errands were, to comfort
Mrs. Bargrave in her afflictioD, and to ask her forgiveness
for breach of friendship, and with a pious discourse to
encourage her; so that, after all, to suppose that Mrs. Bar¬
grave could hatch such an invention as this from Friday
noon to Saturday noon (supposing that she knew of Mrs.
Veal’s death the very moment) without jumbling cir¬
cumstances and without any interest to, she must be
more witty, fortunate, and wicked, too, than any in¬
different person, I dare say, will allow. I asked Mrs.
Bargrave several times if she was sure she felt the gown.
She answered modestly, -‘ If my senses may be relied on, I am
sure of it.’ I asked her if she heard a sound when she
clapped her hand upon her knee. She said she did not re¬
member she did, but said that she appeared to be as much
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Feb. 23, 1877.
&8
a substance as I did who talked with her, ‘and I may,’ said |
she, * be as soon persuaded that your apparition is talking to
me now, as that I did not really see her,’ for I was under no
manner of fear, and received her as a friend and parted with |
her as such. ‘ I would not,’ says she, £ give one farthing to j
make anyone believe it; I have no interest in it; nothing j
but trouble is entailed upon me for a long time ; for aught j
I know, and had it not come to light by accident, it would
never have been made public.’ But now she says she will |
make her own private use of it, and keep herself out of the
way as much as she can, and so she has done since. She J
says she had a gentleman who came thirty miles to hear the
relation, and that she had told it to a room full of people at !<
a time. Several particular gentlemen have had the story i!
from Mrs. Bargrave’s own mouth. J
“ This doing has very much affected me, and I am as well ji
satisfied as I am of the best grounded fact. That w& cannot jj
solve things of which we have no certain or demonstrative I
notion, seems strange to me. Mrs. Bargrave’s authority and <
sincerity along would have been undoubted in any other jj
case.” An Investigator.
County Durham. j
©omsponueua.
Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to thoseOf this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications canno the returned; copies
should he kept hy the writers.] ,
THOMAS LAKE HARRIS.
Sm,—Many of your readers will be pleased to know that T. L.
Harris is engaged in publishing some new works. Two have been
already issued. The works are to be given to friends who desire them.
According to the printed notice, communications from their friends may
be addressed, if from gentlemen to Mr. T. L. Harris, and if from, ladies j
to Mrs. Lily C. Harris, Fountain-grove, Santa Rosa, California.
These works are far in advance of any yet published, and are most
deeply interesting and instructive. E. W. Berridge, M.D.
4, Highbury New Park, N., Feb. 8th,*1877. /
THE MEDIUM INFLUENCING SPIRITS.
GlendoWer : I can call spirits from the vasty deep.
Hotspur : Why, so can I, or so can any man ;
But will they come when you do call them ? j
1st Henry J F, act iii., sc. 1. j
Conjure with them ; )
“ Brutus ’’ will start a spirit as soon as Caesar.
Julius Ccesar, act i. sc. 2.
Sir,—In respect to Mr. Lawrence I see it stated that “ No medium
is able to call up spirits ; the spirits call up their mediums.” But may
not sotne mediums, like the Witch of Endor, be able to do this in some
cases ? We know that, under certain mesmeric or other conditions,
one person does influence another, a great distance away, to think and j
act as required; acting, no doubt, through an intervening spiritual or j
etherial elastic medium, like that which brings the light and heat
in each other’s embrace from the sun. H. Gr. Atkinson, F.Gr.S.
Boulogne-sur-Mer, France.  
SPIRITUALISM POPULARISED: WHAT THEN?
Sir,—Whilst I contend—from the investigator’s standpoint—that
“Spiritualism” has received, and is receiving, more vulgar brutality
from popular journalism than perhaps any other legitimate “faith” has
ever yet received from the press, I must also say that I, for one, should j
not like to see the new science popularised among the uninformed masses ;
of society. The result of such a psychological victory would be fearful j
to contemplate. It is well known that the unlettered multitude will |
believe anything which a shrewd, fluent, and over-confident teacher l
places before them. Hence the headstrong progress of the most absurd j1
and extravagant faiths in all countries. Let me here ask a fair question ? j (
How many of us have been more than disgusted with the blind and j i
excited credulity of commonplace,' unintelligent people whom we have I'
accidentally met at stances? One will scream out at the slightest jj
unavoidable movement of a gentleman’s foot when it is changed con- j'
veniently from a cramped position under the table. Another will weep jj
at the sighing of the wind through the keyhole, and promptly affirm j,
that he can recognise the once well-known voice of a departed grand- j1
mother!
Again, what a number of badly disposed people there are in the world, §
ready to turn mediums, with no other claim to be mesmeric sensitives j
than a selfish disposition to dupe the “great unwashed” of all towns
and villages. Once let Spiritualism spread among the unschooled
thousands of our English population, and soon the pountry would be
flooded with sham mediums in all directions—men who have neither j
conscience nor character, but who might soon cultivate a hellish mimicry, j
and simulate the real article for a marketable remuneration. Added to
this are the dangerous teachings and pranks of your demons, which I
latter might soon become the “gods” of the unthinking and the in¬
cautious million. If Spiritualism could be publicly, as it is privately, [
demonstrated, in the present condition of the uninformed and super- I
stitiously inclined masses, Humbug would soon be crowned King, and j
lower-class society might, perchance, become self-destructive. By all I
means, let the investigation be limited (as far as possible) to the '
j intelligent sections of private society. At present the masses, so-called,
l do not need seance revelations of the mysteries of Being, simply because
I they can, unlike their intellectual brethren, accept without questioning
J the theological statements of our earnest popular churches, which, to
I say the least, are not to be despised as helps—important ones—in the
i work of regenerating society.
Spiritualists may blame themselves, in a great measure, for their
i i current troubles. They have been too aggressive. The seance-room.
1 i has been thrown open too incautiously to the vulgar crowd—to plebeians
j with their harsh disposition, to “ professors ” with their over-confident
and dogmatic bearing towards the sensitives through whose organism
the phenomena have been evolved. Money should be the least, and, if
possible, the last influence for an introduction to high-class mediumship.
Acquaintance previously with the delicate laws of psychology should be
a chief individual recommendation. If there is any truth in Spiritualism
! it can only be traced out by the thoughtful classes, be those classes
i represented by a Kensington Countess, or by a country cobbler of
j superior intelligence. To the ignorant and the specially “ emotional ’’
amongst us, Spiritualism may become a dangerous element of modern
opinion. The recent Tichborne craze among the masses, the fatal spell
of quack doctors’ pills upon the minds of the half-informed, and the
1 general excitability of the English people in the industrial ranks, prove
j the danger of popularising seance experiments. J. T. Markley.
j Peterborough, February 5th.
THE MENTAL OPACITY OF ONE MIND TO THE THOUGHTS OF ANOTHER.
Sir,—The remarks quoted below contain a valuable lesson for
Spiritualists. They are extracted from a letter of O. B. Frothingham
in the (Boston) Index for Dec. 21, 1876. Although addressed to
Radicals, a very few verbal alterations will adapt them precisely to
Spiritualists.
“ To pass outside of my own mind so far as to recognise the fact that
other minds are in very different states, is a difficult thing to do. People
of clear persuasions and strong feelings seldom do justice to persuasions
of another kind, and are always inclined to suspect the equally decided
but opposite feelings of their neighbours. That all reasonable people
think, and must think as we do, is a common illusion which goes far to
explain the fact that parties and cliques remain so blandly and guile¬
lessly ignorant of all beliefs but their own. Honest conservatives fancy
that none but weak, visionary, or bad people are radicals, and radicals
imagine that their ideas are shared much more widely than they are;
that intelligence is more extensively diffused; that the spirit of inquiry
is more generally on the alert than the truth warrants us in believing.
A professor in a divinity school told his class that in preparing sermons
they must study simplicity, must be very plain, and must not be afraid
to say an important thing several times over; for, he added, you can¬
not overestimate the stupidity of congregations. Radicals are greatly
in danger of underestimating the slowness and indifference of the general
Christian public, forgetting, what it is surprising they ever can forget
for a moment, that they are a very small minority; that their means of
communicating with the large and unsympathising public are slender and
exceedingly limited in compass ; that their ideas are strange, none too
easily apprehended by the willing, and actually repulsive to the disin-
j dined. The extent to which these ideas are unknown, even to those
who should be well-informed, is really surprising. Having eyes, people
see not; having ears, they hear not, neither do they understand. The
| centres of independent thought—the great centres—are but a score or
j two all over the civilised world; and in these centres the truly inde¬
pendent minds may be counted by tens. The multitude is not so much
j unintelligent as incurious—occupied with habitual prepossessions that
j yield slowly to the general intellectual growth in the community.” V.
A THEORY RELATING TO EVIL INFLUENCES.
Sin,—The subject of “ evil ” influences is a momentous one, and the
angel world is drawing mortals towards a solution of the problems con¬
nected therewith. The peculiar way in which attention is elicited
thereto is very little noticed, except by such minds as are seeking to
understand the supernal laws governing spiritual phenomena, inde¬
pendently of evidence gleaned from books and the teachings of men. I
wish to call your attention to the influences now impelling some
mediums to trickery, and otherwise to deviate from true moral rectitude.
I cannot believe otherwise than that angel guides do, in wisdom, bias
mediums, as well as others, from the path of moral rectitude, as an
j 'indispensable means of intellectual and spiritual development. Tempta-
j tions and deceptions will continue to bias mediums, as well as all others,
j who are selfishly inclined, until such inclinations are overcome, or until
j the fear of the penalty of transgression induces an effort to overcome
them, and moral strength gains the victory. Spiritual phenomena, in
one sense, are principally deceptions, and, when they are so understood,
the investigator will progress much more rapidly, as he will learn, with
this fact in view, that a wise motive prompts the production of deceptive
j manifestations, or, if you chose to call them, false or representative
j effects.
The investigator, for instance, supposes that he is getting communi¬
cations from some near and dear relative, when such relative or friend
is only represented by angel guardians, who are as familiar with the
characteristics of such friend or relative as we are ourselves; therefore,
1 representations by what are called “ materialisations ” are now in
\ vogue throughout the principal nations of the earth. Not one out of a
\ hundred believers takes a thought that when he beholds a “ materialised”
1 representation of a dear one, that such form is a spiritually manufac-
! tured automaton, which is produced by wise angels for a wise purpose,
i It is now a well-ascertained fact that, in most cases, at least, the
[ materialised form is clothed with fabrics of mundane manufacture.
I The fact that spirits can convey material objects from place to place,
" and through the open doors of cabinets and other apartments, unper-
Feb. 23, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
89
ceived by mortal eyes, is now indisputable, and thus all the “materiali¬
sations and “ de-materialisations,” so-called, can be accounted for
without the hypothesis of improvising from the elements.
The fact that spirits are in possession of the art of rendering material
objects invisible at their discretion should always be considered in the
investigation of the materialising and dematerialising phenomena. I
expect to work on and on as a medium so long as life lasts, and I dare
not shrink from the requirements of my spirit guides, to the peril of my
spiritual treasure—soul-unfoldment and consequent felicitude, the
result of victory over the leadings and misleadings of my spirit guides.
What I wish to make understood, above all things else, is, that guardian
spirits do sometimes play the parts of “ diakka,’’ or “ devils,” in the
processes of developing the minds of the mortal world. All the
spiritualistic influences called “ evil,” or such as are said to be of a
“ low order,” or “ undeveloped,” are influences brought to bear upon
the human mind directly from angel guides, and are directed by more
than mundane wisdom for the development and unfoldment of the
immortal soul. “ Undeveloped ” spirits have no part nor lot in the
matter ; such spirits are wholly unqualified to be guardian spirits, and
go immediately to their proper spiritual sphere, where they are educated
in the things of the supernal world. Guardian angels sometimes
represent such in all their characteristics, and in numerous ways.
Supernal law gives such guardians a perfect right to perform such
representations. Let this be fully understood. D. G. Mosher.
Mosherville, Hillsdale Go,, Michigan, U.S.A.
A FABLE.
Sir,—The Revue Spirite has for some time past given us a monthly
fable in verse. I have attempted to translate the one in the January
number. Scrutator.
A hungry goat once with a cabbage meeting,
The latter felt it would it were not there ;
But making still the best of the affair,
Tremblingly said, “ I am not good for eating! ”
The goat insisted that was all a fudge ;
And said that verdure was his natural diet.
Just then a poodle dog stepped up as judge,
And thus decidedly pronounced his fiat: j
<* Nothing so wrong can be as strife and bluster;
Take then my counsel, nothing can be juster.
Your covetousness, goat, quite makes me laugh;
Would you have all ? No; be content with half.
You, cabbage, can afford well, if you choose,
Some of your outside leaves, for peace, to lose,
And still preserve intact your noblest part,
My gentle cauliflower, I mean your heart.”
The goat indignantly then bleated “ Blow it!n
“ No, not,” the cabbage murmur’d, “ if I know it.”
We fear the hope must always be remote
Of pleasing both the cabbage and the goat.
A LETTER FROM M. LEYMARIE.
Sir,—I am free. After a little indisposition, which was to be expected
after the change to the free air from nine months’ residence in a cell, I
have resumed my usual life of conflict with the world.
I desire to extend to you the hand of brotherly affection, and to ask
you to express my gratitude to my brethren in Great Britain who showed
me so much sympathy in my trouble. Convey to them cordial greetings
from the French Spiritualists, and from Madame Leymarie, who will
never forget the kindness with which you, sir, lent The Spiritualist to
forward the interests of my cause.
May we all be united in the defence of the great truth, whatever may
be the personal divergences in matters of belief. In nature, there is
harmony in diversity, and man cannot escape from the action of this
universal law, which is both the conservation of physical force and the
vitality of moral force. P. G. Leymarie.
Revue Spirits, Paris, February 19th, 1877.
DR. SLADE.*
(To the Editor of the “ Times.")
Sir,—There are two or three points in your article on Dr. Slade’s
case upon which I think your sense of justice will allow a comment.
In calling attention to the fact that the defendant has escaped upon
a point of law, and in saying that the facts as decided by Mr.
Flowers remain undisproved, it would be only fair to remind your
readers that this decision was arrived at by the rejection of evidence
declared by the magistrate himself to be “ overwhelming,” and to afford
a “ crucial test ” with reference to suggestions which the prosecution
had been allowed to make in anticipation of that evidence. Moreover,
a decision based upon “ the known course of nature ” effectually pre¬
judges the case. It is difficult to see, upon, this ground, why Professor
Lankester and Dr. Donkin should have been put to the trouble of
detailing their experiences beyond the allegation of a pretence by Slade
which must have been assumed to be false. You speak in your article
of the rebutting evidence which might have been adduced on the
Appeal, but it was just this kind of evidence (though it has greatly
accumulated since the conviction) which was dismissed from considera¬
tion at Bow-street. I am therefore justified' in saying that the case of
Slade has never been heard and determined on the merits.
Allow me also to protest against your assumption that Spiritualists
accept the messages which commonly come upon Slade’s slates as satis¬
factory proof of ’the agency of their deceased friends. Some, it is true,
* This letter was sent to the Times, but aot published theroia.
/
j
if
f
!)!
|)j
11
if
r
i) i
i
|(|
i)i
||
1
Im
II
II
have obtained evidence of this which it is extremely difficult to resist
but so far from experience in this investigation tending to make men
credulous, the best informed Spiritualists are the most exacting of tests
of identity, and most disposed to suspect other occult agencies besides
those to which we are popularly supposed to refer all the phenomena.
Very early in my investigation with Slade, and long before another
witness (who regarded the result as per se conclusive of fraud), I tried
the experiment of writing a fictitious name. Not to take up your valu¬
able space with a detail of my exact observations, I say, generally, that
most assuredly Slade did not see what I wrote, nor the motions of my
pencil in writing, and that it was absolutely impossible that he could
have written one letter of the message which I afterwards found on the
other side of the slate, signed, as I had expected, by the name I had
given.
In fact, the emotional element in Spiritualism has retired much into
the background, and has given place to a critical appreciation of the
facts. For some time longer, I suppose, we must submit to be called
fools and dupes; but already the grudging admission of a “ residuum of
truth ” is laying the foundations of a science which it will be impos¬
sible for a new generation of scientific men to ignore.
C. C. Massey.
Temple, January 30th, 1877.
public reading rooms.
Sir,—Some months ago I suggested to Mr. Hartley, of Hyde, a plan
to promote intellectual progress in general, which would draw attention
to Spiritualism, without the slightest trace of propagandism in this
particular direction, namely, a reading and conversation room, furnished
with books and periodicals chiefly devoted to subjects out of the beaten
tracks; in fact, a kind of “ free exchange ” of thought, in contradistinc¬
tion to a central meeting-place for business transactions. I was glad
to find Mr. Hartley met me half way, in further suggesting the avoid¬
ance of any title or name in connection with Spiritualism, in order to
secure sympathy on the broadest scale, and so prepare a basis for the
natural development of the plan. We agreed that every town could
furnish such a place, apart from the area of prejudice and ignorance,
without great trouble and expense; and, I believe, as soon as people
learn (and that time is near) that there is a mighty enemy, even in the
shape of the law, in the field against intellectual progress, numbers will
flock to the standard of truth. The excellent letter of Thomas Pattison
in your issue of Feb. 2nd, confirms my view that such an institution on
neutral ground would be useful. If my present method of inviting abler
pens to put this plan in practical shape should succeed, the insertion of
this letter will have answered its purpose. C. Beimers.
2, Ducie-avenue, Manchester, Feb. 18th, 1877.
MEDIUMS AND THE LAW.
BY CHARLES CARLETON MASSEY.
The suggestion thrown out by your correspondent
“ Lynx,” very early engaged the attention of those who
had to consider all the legal bearings of the Slade case.
But in fact the resemblance of the case of mediums to that
of the Roman Catholic priesthood, so far as the law of false
pretences and the Vagrancy Act are concerned, will not bear
examination. The prosecution has to prove that the pre¬
tence was false to the knowledge of the accused, or that
“the subtle craft, means or device” was designed to deceive.
Apart from statute there is no presumption of law against
what is commonly called the supernatural—certainly none
against the bond fide belief of the pretenders to supernatural
powers. Take away the Vagrant Act, and the law of false
pretences will be powerless, for example, against fortune¬
tellers ; because it could neither be assumed that the power
did not in fact exist, nor that the prophet did mot believe
himself to possess it. But, possibly, proof that former
predictions of the defendant had failed might be received
as evidence that he could not believe himself to possess the
power. Your correspondent asks: “ If any such priest
were cited before Mr. Flowers, how could he prove that the
deceased person had been benefited in any way ? ” (by the
saying of masses for his soul.) The simple answer to this
is that the priest would not have to prove that there was
any benefit, but the prosecutor would have to prove that
there was not; and, further, that the priest knew there was
not. True, Mr. Flowers went unnecessarily out of his way
in talking of the “ known course of nature ”; but there
were facts before him from which he might, if he chose to
disregard, as he did, the proofs of inaccurate observation
and incorrect statements by the witnesses, have come to the
same conclusion without any arbitrary assumptions. Apart,
however, from intention to deceive, there is one par¬
ticular in which, from the anti-spiritual point of view,
the case of the priest is far more within the inten¬
tion of the statute than that of Slade, and in which it
more nearly resembles the specified case of the fortune-
90
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 23, 1877.
teller. The priest and the fortune-teller alike appeal to
faith or credulity. Slade made no such appeal; the very
suggestion that he is a conjurer is almost inconsistent with
the supposition that he did, or at least that he relied on the
superstition of his supposed dupes. The mission of a
<c medium ’* is to convince people of spirit agency ; he does
not appeal to a belief already in their minds. I regret that
this important distinction was not pointed out in the argu¬
ment on Monck’s case. Mr. Mathews need have been in no
difficulty, as it appears to me, in answering the question
which was put to him from the bench. “To what cases, if
not to this, would you say the words ‘ or otherwise’ apply ?”
Having regard to the admitted rule that they must be con¬
strued ejusdem generis with palmistry, fortune-telling, or
divination, it is clear that the subtle craft, means, or de¬
vice, must be such as depends for its effect upon the super¬
stitious belief of the dupe, not upon his defective observa- |
tion or ignorance of conjuring tricks. No doubt mediums j
assert (I hope when there are strangers present they will |
leave off asserting) the agency of spirits ; but they do not i
pretend to other means of knowing this fact than those they j
present to the investigator himself. The latter is either a j
Spiritualist already, or he is not; in neither case is he in- j
fluenced in his opinion of what he witnesses by anything j
the medium says. This talk, which runs with studiously |
offensive iteration through newspaper comments and counsels’ j
speeches, of mediums imposing upon credulous people, and j
of the necessity of protecting the latter from themselves is |
the veriest nonsense, when used with reference to mediums |
who submit their powers to investigation.
Since writing the above I have again examined the judg- j
ment of Barons Cleasby and Pollock in the Huddersfield case,
and the fallacy that underlies it, though not at once j
apparent, is logically demonstrable. To bring a case within
the Vagrancy Act there must be an attempt to deceive by j
certain specified means or by other means ejusdem generis j
with these. Now, inasmuch as the deception attempted by j
palmistry, is the false belief in the (so-called) supernatural
powers pretended to, any attempt to produce a false belief 1
in other (so-called) supernatural powers, such as those of
mediums* may very naturally be described as ejusdem generis j!
with that. The fallacy, however, consists in this. What, the jj
Statute requires is not that the nature of the deception should |j
be ejusdem generis with that effected by palmistry, but that j
the means employed should be ejusdem generis with the |
means specified, 2.6., with palmistry. An attempt to deceive j
“ by palmistry or otherwise,” does not mean an attempt to I
deceive into the belief that I possess the power of divination j
by inspection of the palm of the hand, or some other power j
analogous thereto (which might, perhaps include any so- !
sailed supernatural power), but that the means employed are j
like palmistry. In palmistry there is no attempt to deceive )
the senses, nothing upon which the observation and judg- j
ment of the dupe can be exercised. The “ medium ” on the j
other hand may cheat, but he does so under peril of instant j
detection. In distinguishing the case of Johnson v. Fenner !
(33 Justice of the Peace Reports) Baron Cleasby said, “In j
such a case no peculiar power is pretended, like telling j
fortunes or palmistry, to impose on the credulous, but a j
great skill of manipulation and sleight of hand, and persons j
are found confident enough to back their eyesight against j
the skill and dexterity of the performer.” Now, this is just j
the case with those who investigate medial phenomena, and !
it is only by mixing up wholly different things—the nature j
of the pretence, and the means employed to obtain credit for j
it, that this judgment can be upheld. j
Dark Seances.—A correspondent writes:—“ As one of the subjects
proposed for consideration at a discussion meeting of the British National
Association of Spiritualists was, ‘ The Best Tests of the Genuineness of
Physical Phenomena,’ perhaps I may be allowed to offer a suggestion.
May we not utilise the condition of darkness, so frequently objected to
at physical circles, by endeavouring to devise more ‘ tests ’ in the shape
of feats which could not be performed in the ordinary course of things
without light ? For instance, could we not give outline drawings to the
spirits, and ask them to cut them out with scissors in the dark ? This
has been done on several occasions.”
* The power of mediums is an altogether erroneous and misleading term, but
I use it as a convenient expression in this place.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION SEANCES.
Last year a very useful and successful course of seances
was instituted by Mr. Charles Blackburn, at 38, Great
Russell-street, London, under the management of the
SeanceCommittee of the National Association of Spiritualists.
Between eighty and ninety inquirers were admitted to these
circles, which were held under test conditions, and the mani¬
festations, which took place in the light, and were compara¬
tively elementary in character, were on all occasions satis¬
factory.
Finding that these seances are a means of usefulness, as
affording the best introduction to Spiritualism (excepting
home circles) which have yet been devised, Mr. Martin
Smith and Mr. Blackburn have this year combined to pro¬
vide another course to be held weekly, during a space of not
less than three months.
The great necessity for keeping circles for the advanced
manifestations quite free from the “ stranger ” element,
being recognised by the Committee, a second series of stances
has been instituted for members of the Association only.
Particulars may be ascertained on application to the
Secretary.    
INQUIRERS’ SEANCES.
BT ELIZABETH FITZ-GERALD.
The first seance of the series for inquirers was held at the
rooms of the British National Association of Spiritualists,
38, Great Russell-street, London, on Thursday, the 15th
inst. Mr. W. Eglinton was the medium. There * were
sixteen in the circle; the proceedings were conducted by
Dr. Carter Blake.
The medium having been secured by sewing his coat
sleeves together behind him, his coat was also sewn in
front, and over it a kind of Holland bib was tied, thus pre¬
venting the possibility of the . coat being removed. A
gentleman present had brought his own cotton, some of
which he twisted round the medium’s hands and shoulders ;
the medium was then placed in a chair within the cabinet,
his head and shoulders only being behind the curtains, and
his knees and feet in view the whole time, in good gaslight.
Across his knees was placed a book, the Oxford chimes, a
sheet of paper, a pencil, and some wooden rings. A hand
was presently thrust out between the curtains, and began to
write, but as the paper slipped about very much a voice
asked one of the sitters to hold it while the writing was
done. All the sitters could see the hand writing. The
book was opened and shut, taken from the medium’s knees,
and thrown on the floor; the musical instrument was
drawn into the cabinet, and played upon within. A spirit
voice kept up a lively conversation with the circle, and re¬
quested the tying committee to inspect the medium. On
their doing so they found Mr. Eglinton secured as they had
left him. As soon as they had withdrawn, and before they
were seated, hands were seen protruding from the curtain,
above the medium’s head. The spirit next took all the
things out of the medium’s pocket, and threw them on the
floor. After giving a little more music he told us he could
do no more, as the power was exhausted, and he bade us
all good night. On the medium’s bonds being inspected,
he was found secured as at first.
The sitters were all very friendly and harmonious, and to
this cause is doubtless to be ascribed the success of this
interesting and convincing seance.
6, Loughboro’-road, North Brixton.
Dr. Slade.—At the present time Dr. Slade and Mr. Simmons are at
the Hague; the former had been ill ever since he left England till
within a few days ago, when his health began to improve. Dr. Slade
and Miss Slade intend to go on to St. Petersburg, and Mr. and Miss
Simmons will return to the United States. Wherever they go they are
sure to find plenty of friends, in consequence of the persecution they
have undergone. Mr. Simmons has forwarded us a testimonial, sent to
Dr. Slade from Wilmington, Delaware, U.S., dated January 30th,
1877. Among other things, the memorialists say, “ All we know of you
we learned at your stances, and our experience is contrary to that of
your persecutors. We are heart and soul with you in your troubles, and
wait to receive you with open arms on your return to your native land.”
This little memorial is signed by Christian Clavey and family, George
B. Baugh, Samuel Marshall, John S. Rowbotham, Wm. H. Bradford,
George Everett, A. J. Van Duzee, F. Johnson, Mrs. S.-A. Johnson, W.
H. Gardner, Wm. Murphy, and C. Harlan, M.D. Dr, Slade has re¬
ceived large numbers of letters of sympathy.
THE SPIRITUALIST,
91
Feb. 23, 1877.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” FUND.
The Spiritual periodicals are partly supported by public
subscriptions, but in consequence of our dislike to that
system, and preference rather for the plan of selling period¬
icals at a remunerative price, The Spiritualist for three
years would have nothing to do with the plan, but stood
single-handed against large public subsidies, and paid out
the consequent expenses. When this position grew too
unfair to this journal, the subscription system was occa¬
sionally adopted to a moderate extent. In future we shall be
glad if the public will support the weekly Spiritual
periodicals equally, and a subscription list on behalf of this
journal has just been opened, as will be seen on reference to
our advertising columns.
DR. MONCK.
About ten days ago, Dr. Monok was imprisoned at Wakefield, as the
result of the sentence passed upon him in the Huddersfield case.
There are some points connected with the legal proceedings against
him to which we intend to call attention when more space is at disposal.
Whatever Dr. Monck’s faults, there is no doubt whatever that he is
a strong medium, because in strange houses, and in the presence of
responsible witnesses, it has been a common thing for solid objects to
move about in a strong light in his presence, under conditions altogether
beyond his control.
Once, in a speech at the Doughty Hall he made some curious state¬
ments that deserve investigation. He asserted that several strange
things took place while he was in custody at Huddersfield. He said
that once—at night—the constable, on going his round looked through
the hole in the cell door, saying, “Well, Doctor, how are you 1” A broom
was outside ; the constable moved it some distance away; in returning
later on, the constable, whose name is Roberts, was considerably
astonished to find the aforesaid broom on Dr. Monck’s bed. The cell
door was locked securely, and Roberts had the key, and he, Dr. Monck,
could not reach the broom in any way. On another occasion, when
securely locked in his cell, his tea-cup and saucer, and a jug containing
milk, were carried from within the cell, and placed on a window-sill in
the yard some distance off. The cup was found placed in the saucer,
and the milk in the jug alongside had not been spilt.
Information has reached us that there is foundation for these state¬
ments, and that experiments have been since tried inside the police-
station to find out whether the results could be produced by artificial
means. It is said that a person shut up in the cell managed to place
a cup and saucer on the shelf mentioned, by first sticking them in the
end of a stiff folded newspaper, by which means the shelf was reached.
Whether a jug of milk was placed there in this way by the later ex¬
perimentalist without being spilt, and whether Dr. Monck had a news¬
paper in his cell at the time, is not stated. The indirect information
which has reached us is also to the effect that in no way could the
transportation of the broom be accounted for. The real circumstances
ought to be officially verified or contradicted.
Experienced Spiritualists somewhat generally hold the idea that
spiritual manifestations are stronger in the spring of the year than at
any other time. Attention may well be directed to this question.
The Rev. H. R. Haweis, Incumbent of St. James’s, Marylebone, is
now preaching every Sunday morning at St. James’s Hall, and draw¬
ing full audiences. In his sermons he vigorously attacks the greatest
abuses and social shams of the day. The service begins at eleven
o’clock.
Clairvoyance.—Mr. C. H. Doty, of Atkinson, III., writes:—I re¬
ceived the following statement from Mrs. Sargent, the widow of Capt.
Sargent, master of the vessel spoken of in this incident: “ My husband
had made a trip to the West Indies, a very quick trip, being only seven
days and a half from Cuba. I was not expecting him so early, when
all at once I saw his vessel, just at daylight, in a dense fog, near the
shore, close to the breakers. The fog lifted suddenly, and the mate
says, ‘ We are all lost! ’ I heard it as distinctly as though I had been
there. Capt. Sargent said, ‘ Wear the vessel! ’ They did so, and
entered a little cove. The mate said, ‘ We are saved ! ’ I could see
and hear everything. They were near Kennebunk, on Wood Island,
near the lighthouse. The cove was not large enough for them to turn
around, and they had to come to Portland to get a tow boat to get
them out. My husband went to Saco, took the train, and arrived very
early, about eight o’clock. As he entered the house I said, £ Why, Eli,
where did you come from? I was with you this morning.’ ‘Well,
you were in a pretty tight place, then,’ says my husband. ‘ Yes,
indeed,’ said I, and went on to give a relation of what I saw and
heard. ‘ If you had been on board you could not have described
it more accurately,’ said he, but made no further comment,
for he was not fond of encouraging my gift.’’ The lady who gave me
the above is still living. The same lady also gave me the following : —
“ My cousin, Mary Holland, and I, went to the Odd Fellows’ picnic at
Orchard Beach. While waiting in the depdt, my cousin went to the
mirror to adjust something about her hair, and laid her veil in a chair.
When she looked for it, it was gone. Search was fruitless, and I per¬
suaded her she had left it in the cars. In going to the grounds, a lady
was sitting where we passed her. By a sudden impulse I could not
resist, and at which I was much frightened, I piit out my hand to her,
and said, ‘ I will take that veil.’ She said, ‘ Yes, I did find one in the
depot.’ Putting her hand in her pocket, she took out the veil and
handed it to me, and we passed on.—Religio-Philosophical Journal.
j THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN.
<| On Thursday evening, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting of the
11 Psychological Society, held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square,
) | London, Mr. Serjeant Cox presided.
(j synchronous dreaming. ,
) i Mr. F. K. Munton, honorary secretary, read a communication from
) | Mr. E. P. Toy, stating that the writer and his wife were in the habit of
\ \ dreaming upon the same subject at the same time; this did not arise
)j from mere coincidence, or in consequence of certain matters being
)\i naturally uppermost in their minds, for trifling things were dreamt of
\ | which had not been in their thoughts previously. One night he dreamt
) | that he had been charged by a bull, and so did she; on another occa-
) | sion he dreamt that he was at the funeral of a favourite child, and he
\ 1 did not grieve, although he liked the child very much; his wife dreamt
; 1 the same thing, and they often had similar experiences. He added that
?[ in Pitman’s Phonographic Reporter a case was narrated of a man re-
\ i porting an important speaker in Parliament, and gradually ceasing to
)j hear what the orator was saying; afterwards the reporter discovered
(i that he had unconsciously taken down every word which the speaker
{j had uttered.
) | cerebral psychology.
(j The Honorary Secretary next read a paper by Mr. Charles Bray, on
) | ‘‘ Cerebral Psychology.” The paper recognised phrenology as a truth,
) i and set forth that as the only channels of communication with the out-
\: side world were the senses, which also were limited in number, men
) ] might have a very imperfect knowledge as to the real nature of that
) | outside world.
(i The Rev. W. Stainton-Moses, M.A., remarked that it was impossible
) | to discuss a paper like that directly after it had been read by the
) | secretary. The members of the Society ought to have an opportunity of
j | perusing the papers, and of speaking of the contents at subsequent
) i meetings. He thought that Mr. Bray had opened out the whole subject
) I of Berkeleyism. It should be remembered that influences from the
(i outside world impinged not only on the sensations of one individual,
) | but upon many in the same way, except where there was disease, and
) | the exception in this case, as in others, proved the rule. He thought
< | that phrenology was not as certainly established as other branches of
) I physiology. These might or might not be small flaws in the carefully
) | written paper, which he should be glad to have had an opportunity of
Vi reading.
) | Professor Plumptre said that if he remembered rightly the figures
) I given by Mr. Bray, he set forth that in fishes the proportion of brain to
(| nerve was as two to one, in reptiles three to one, in birds four to one, in
11 higher animals six to one, and in man twenty-three to one. If he
) i remembered rightly the proportion in birds was very much larger than
(i that given by Mr. Bray. The wonderful intelligence of the parrot was
) | in consequence of the enormous development of its brain in proportion
)| to the rest of its nervous system. He thought that the proportion
(j between the brain and nervous system of the higher apes must be more
j | than six to one.
) | The Chairman thought that the best answer to Mr. Bray’s theory
| j was that, if he were right, the world was made for man, and not man
11 for the world; if so, there was no real, definite, external world. It had
) i been said that there was no evidence of the existence of colour, and that
(j colour consisted merely of brain impressions. This was well answered
j! by the information Sir John Lubbock had given, that insects play the
) ] largest part in the fertihsation of plants, and he had proved that colour
(I attracted insects to flowers. Professor Ferrier had, of late, been trying
j i some curious experiments on the brains of animals, chiefly of the dog
) | and monkey. He did it in a cruel way, such as he (Mr. Seijeant Cox)
j | thought to be altogether unjustifiable, notwithstanding the end
) | in view. It was true that he gave the animals anesthetics,
If but he could not keep them for weeks in the state that he did
i without their suffering great pain ; and he could not justify such
Si torture to animals, even to gain knowledge. (Applause.) Neverthe-
J | less, as Professor Ferrier had gained the information, the world was
j 'i at liberty to make use of it. The professor had cut away both the
I! frontal hemispheres of the brain, to find out how the back brain
I i would act by itself, and what were its functions ? The animals then
[ | lost all self-consciousness, but all the functions of life went on as before.
II They lived, and appeared to enjoy perfect health, but had lost their
i ] intelligence—they were mere vegetables. He discovered one of the
[ | ganglions to be the centre of the external senses. On cutting away this
i j ganglion, and leaving only the medulla oblongata, he discovered that its
11 functions were to govern external action; the animals would still take
i food and walk accurately. He then applied a red hot iron to destroy
| different portions of it. The brain was double on each side, and when
one side of the brain was stimulated it acted upon the contrary side of
the body. His general conclusion was that the cerebrum governed the
action of the body, that the next ganglion governed the action of the
j senses, and gave knowledge of the external world, and on this rested
two other ganglions, which gave intelligence. He found that he could
destroy the sensations one by one—the sense of sight and so on. The
I rising scale seemed to be—first vegetables, then animals, then man.
The hemispheres of the brain of a monkey are identical with those of
man, and differ from them only in size. Professor Ferrier could not tell
| what influence the different parts of the upper brain exercised upon the
mind; because he could not perform these experiments upon men, who
could tell him when they lost various mental powers one after the other.
| The question “ What is consciousness ”? was an important one; it might
| be due to something outside the brain and body. He should like to
| have an evening’s discussion devoted entirely to this question, without
any paper upon the subject being read.
! Major Owen remarked that he was on@e phrenologically examining
I the head of a young man, and pointed out to those present that there
was something peculiar about the organ of colour; the organ was well
92
THE SPIEITUALIST. Feb. 23, 1877.
developed, but there was a narrow indentation across it. This young
man could not tell green from red, and he (Major Owen) did not know
of this peculiarity before he made the phrenological examination.
Professor Plumptre wished to know whether Ferrier thought that the
more convoluted the brain the higher was the intelligence. Some of the
lower animals had no convolutions at all.
The Chairman replied that Mr. Ferrier admitted that fact. The con¬
volutions in the monkey were of the same number and form as in man,
but smaller.
Mr. Stainton-Moses—Have they more convolutions than the dog ?
The Chairman—Yes.
Mr. Stainton-Moses—Then the dog makes better use of his.
(Laughter.)
Lieut.-Colonel Hartley remarked that all that Bray and Berkeley
asserted was that man perceived with the mind, and in any argument
which might be raised it was impossible to advance beyond that position,
consequently the speakers were probably reasoning in a circle. He thought
that a paper like that could not be fairly criticised without being
studied, and that it could only be fairly dealt with by first accepting the
facts of the lecturer, and then examining them from his point of view.
He was, therefore, rather in favour of the suggestion made by Mr.
Stainton-Moses, that papers should be published before they were
discussed. He had been inspecting a lunatic asylum the day before.
Some of the patients wished to speak to him, and the assistants wanted
him to go on, but he wished to stop and talk. One of the lunatics said
to him, “ I am badly mixed. Everybody has their forefathers, their
grandfathers and their grandmothers, mixed up in them, and I am not
well mixed.’’ (Laughter.) There was a good bit of sense in that
remark, after all.
The Chairman stated that one day Mr. Warren was questioning a
lunatic, who said, “I am Julius Caesar.’’ ‘‘Why,” said Mr. Warren,
“ when I last saw you, you were Napoleon Bonaparte.” “ Ah! ” replied
the lunatic, “you are right, but it was by a different mother!”
(Laughter.)
The proceedings then closed.
THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
FOR 1877.
We now publish the conclusion of the report of the proceedings of
the National Conference of Spiritualists, in continuation of the first
portion, which was printed in these pages last week.
On Friday, February 9th, the morning proceedings were concluded
under the chairmanship of Mr. C. C. Massey.
A FAPER BY MR. A. J. SMART—EXPERIENCES WITH HAUNTING SPIRITS.
The following paper by Mr. A. J. Smart was then read by Miss Kislingbury, the
secretary:—
Now that Spiritualism is showing itself to be ra power in the land, now that it
can no longer1 be conveniently sneered down, now that the forms which it assumes
are so varied that the mind stands amazed at its far-reaching heights and depths,
and the seeming infinity of its ramifications, which spread in every direction in a
vast and magnificent panorama of cause and effect—now that it is commencing to
form for itself a more definite philosophy,—and, above all, now that recent events
have brought it so prominently before the world that the effect which has been
created can never altogether die out, it behoves those on whose shoulders rests in
this day the burden of sowing for the benefit of posterity the seeds of advanced
truth, to look carefully before them into the future, and to consider in what direc¬
tions, and by what methods, the work may best be pushed forward, the ground
which has been secured maintained, and additional ground cleared for further
active effort.
Just now the enemies of progress are triumphant in the thought that Spiritualism
is doomed, and the faint-hearted are wondering whether this may not be so. The j)
future shall prove to these how mistaken they were, for it is just now that fresh j j
starts are being made in every direction by those who have in hand the work of i(
gathering up and storing knowledge for the use of later generations ; it is just now | (
that more determination than ever to this end is evinced; and it is just now that j \
new fields of thought and effort are opening up to these workers every day.. |)
To deal as a whole with the future work of Spiritualists would be a subject by |)
far too vast for my present limits; but, if in the light of my own personal j)
experience, I venture to point out one important direction in which effort may and I'
must be turned, it is in the hope that others besides myself may be induced to I /
direct their attention to the same work, and thus help to cleanse the Spiritual j (
atmosphere of this planet, so that “ light, more light,” may descend upon the I
musses. My experience has been strange and, I believe, unusual, and without ](
doubt will interest many whose minds are prepared, by the systematic study which j)
they have given to the laws of Spiritual existence, to appreciate it. I j
Eor some months past I have had the pleasure of being a member of one of j)
those private circles, the existence of which throughout the world has done so j)
much to establish Spiritualism on a basis which no amount of prosecution of public !)
mediums can shake. The few of us who compose the circle have persevered j /
through difficulty and discouragement, and great has been our reward. Our !(
experiences have been fraught with peculiar but instructive lessons, some of which j j
may see the light some day. But those I am about to relate exceed all the rest in ||
strangeness and rarity, and give the key to some of the more wonderful of the laws i)
which govern spirit. . . I (
One or two of the members of our circle visiting, one day, in company with their I)
mediumistic friend, the ruins of an ancient castle situated some seven miles from !/
our locale, we were informed on our return by the controls of the medium, that in | (
a dungeon into which we had penetrated there cowered a poor, miserable creature, | (
chained and manacled, the spirit of one who had perished from starvation. This |(
we thought curious, but little did we dream .of the grand vista of knowledge and !)
usefulness to which this little incident opened the way. The controls further i)
evinced a desire that we would assist them to remove this individual, to which we j)
readily consented. j /
At the next favourable opportunity we performed our promise, and again wended ! (
our way to the spot. Entering the dungeon, the condition and surroundings of ! <
the miserable being were described through the medium, and the practical work i\
for the time necessary was done, which appeared to consist in putting the subject ' i \
of our efforts into a kind of mesmeric sleep by means of an influence taken from i)
ourselves. At our circle, held on our return, in the afternoon of the same day, I)
the prisoner (as we called him) was brought and placed in control of the medium, j)
The medium, or rather the control, then exhibited signs of distress, complained of i /
hunger, and besought food. The wrists of the medium became fixed, one across jc
the other exactly as if manacled, and so tightly that it was not without great effort
!that they were forced asunder. By forcing the wrists and the ankles apart, the
chains which the imagination of the spirit had created or woven around himself
(corresponding with those in which his material body had been bound (vanished
i from his sight, and the unequivocal signs of joy which he exhibited at this result
were unmistakable.
The most singular facts in connection with this are these:—That he was quite
unaware he had died,—that he asserted he had been imprisoned about ten years,
previously (further inquiries discovered that he had been thrown into prison as a
suspected spy some two or three hundred years ago), and imagined he had been
brought out to be killed,—that he stated there were many others in the same
condition in the dungeon from which he had been taken,—and that after it had
i been impressed upon his mind that he was a disembodied spirit, he imagined us
) i all to be denizens of the spirit-world also. It is also a significant and suggestive
/ i fact that, ignorant of the real nature and after-results of death, and unaware of its
(j kindly intervention having freed him from his bonds, he still conceived himself
(| enchained, with so strong a conception that the chains were perceptible not only to
(! himself but to other spirits who approached him. The question arises, was his
(i imagination sufficiently powerful (filled as it was with the idea of his surroundings
) i before death) to actually create these chains out of the spiritual atmosphere
) i surrounding him after death? Were they subjective or objective ? The “ prisoner ”
) I was at length after his release taken by the controls to one of those sanatoriums
) I which we are given to understand abound in the spirit-world.
(i What is the explanation of this? I will give it in a condensed form as we
(i received it in answer to our inquiries from the controls who took the work in
(j hand. Over the surface of this globe, particularly in juxtaposition to places
yj around which old historical associations hover, battle-fields, ruins of ancient
) j ' castles, prisons, fortresses, abbeys, and the like, there are scattered thousands
) i upon thousands of spirits who have passed over to the other life in that state of
) i intense mental and spiritual darkness in which the masses were in times past
) I immersed, and from which they are not even yet relieved. Totally unacquainted
;j with the laws and conditions of spiritual life; never, perhaps, having given a
II thought to after-existence, or having but the vaguest ideas concerning it,—when
j death transpired and these beings woke up in spirit-life, everything around
I them was so real and life-like that it could not for an instant enter their heads that
i they had left the material world. Kept down by the darkness of their ignorance
i of spiritual laws, they were unable to rise beyond the earth-sphere, and lapsed
| into a dreamy semi-conscious state, miserable indeed, though not necessarily
j involving positive pain or suffering. There they have remained and will remain
(i until the spiritual atmosphere of the earth shall become so impregnated with
(i spiritual light and energy that it will be a physical impossibility for them to remain
(j bound down any longer.
j I The good work has since been continued, and many of these beings have been
>! removed from the old historical places with which the neighbourhood of this
) j locality abounds. We are working in conjunction with intelligences of a high
) I order, who have initiated this class of effort, and who !have provided a place for
/ j the reception of our patients, where they are carefully tended, instructed, and
(I started on the high road of progression. Our plan is to visit a locality, and then
(| the controls, having established a psychological connection between the medium,
(i one or more of those whom they find there are enabled to bring the latter to our
)! circle at home. Some of the revelations which have from time to time been made
concerning Spiritual laws have been marvellous.
But few of those who thus come under our observation are aware of their
physical death, and in this connection I have to present the most extraordinary
part of my narrative, by the description of a process which, so far as I have been
able to ascertain, has not hitherto come within the experience of any other circle,
and to which, therefore, I wish more particularly to call attention.
It is absolutely impossible to make many of these people believe they have
actually left the material body, by simply telling them so, because everything is so
real to them. Yet, until this idea is impressed upon them, they cannot advance.
The process by which the controls impress them with this knowledge is very
singular and very effectual. After putting the subject in control of the medium,
they bring vividly to his memory the last agonies of his death. The sight is a
solemn and impressive one to the spectators. The medium is apparently strug¬
gling in the grasp of death, yet so carefully and skilfully do the controls work,
that not the least danger is to be' apprehended. At length the medium appears
actually to die to all intents and purposes, the body becoming rigid, and. the
heart and pulse beating feebly. This, however, is but a sign that the spirit under¬
going the operation is being gradually withdrawn from control, and animation is
never really suspended for a moment. Indeed, the controls, if they choose, can so
manipulate the organisation of the medium, that for a time the pulsation of the
heart would not be perceptible, and death would be pronounced to have super¬
vened by those given to hasty decisions. All this without the least danger.
As soon as the spirit is withdrawn from control, he awakes with the impression
that he has just died, and imagining himself to be in heaven, or hell, or wherever
else his inmost beliefs and the verdict of his conscience direct his thoughts. H e
speaks and’acts as an inhabitant of the spirit world, and treats us as inhabitants
thereof also, frequently speaking of “ some people who took his chains off just
before he died," or otherwise relieved him, and not recognising us as the same.
He is also able to perceive objects and individuals which the gross cloud of matter
previously surrounding him prevented him from seeing. If his life has been
good, he sees his friends; if evil, his enemies; and the emotions exhibited corre¬
spond to these mental states..
Under this process the medium, for a brief period, displays all the symptoms of
a person dying the death previously suffered by the spirit undergaing the opera¬
tion. We have thus had vividly presented before us the symptoms of death
by starvation, stabbing, decapitation, and drowning, besides others. Many have
been the tales of suffering we have listened to, and the narratives of barbarous
cruelty perpetrated upon unoffending persons in the “ good old times,” and
striking and impressive the scenes we have witnessed, although somewhat trying
to the nerves; and I would advise none to undertake this department of work
who are not prepared to take it up in grim earnest. Scenes the most affecting and
painfully pleasurable have also transpired, when we have had the gratification of
beholding those we had helped to free in the enjoyment of happiness, and reunited
to the lost objects of their humble affections, from whom, perchance, they had
been ruthlessly torn and cast into prison for no fault of their own. It is a joy,
indeed, to use one’s self, and the knowledge one gains, for the benefit of his
fellow creatures, whether in this world or the next.
I may notice, en passant, the curious fact that, in after visits to the circle, these
spirits have hitherto referred to their death as happening when first brought to the
circle, while the circumstances of their actual death centuries ago they refer to as
M a dream which they had.” The real state of the case is, however, dawning upon
some of them, under the tuition of their kind instructors in spirit-life.
It appears that so long have these poor creatures haunted the places in which
their last hours faded away, that the surroundings have become thoroughly
impregnated with their influence to such an extent that they are literally tied by
the attraction to the spot, and cannot get away without help. It further appears
that so thick and gross is the aura round them that they are unable to perceive
those brighter intelligences who are trying to lift them up; and these elevated
beings cannot approach them, or make any sufficient impression upon them,
without the assistance of an ordinary medium, by the aid of whose more material
powers they can establish a more intimate rapport between themselves and the
spirit they are endeavouring to assist. By means of the influence derived from the
medium and circle, they are able to approach closer to the gross, low-conditioned
spirit, and thus impress him with the knowledge of his actual condition and oppor¬
tunities, and eventually to remove him to a better state. This is the philosophy of
the work we are engaged in. The material aura of the medium enables them, as it
Feb. 23, 1877.
THE SPIRITUALIST. 93
■were, to cut or pierce through the dark and comparatively material aura of the i)
spirit. . t ; : . jf
It is manifest that the laws of spirit existence, concealed behind what has been j <
advanced, are numerous and perplexing, but the time has hitherto been too much i (
occupied in accumulating and recording facts to allow of any attempt on our part i \
at establishing a philosophy of the subject. The future will no doubt disclose I {
many deeply interesting laws at work to produce such a state of things, and also })
laws which may be put to use to work out a remedy. I)
Much might, be learnt from a consideration of the power which imagination |)
exhibits of creating round a spirit like those we have dealt with, appearances j?
exactly resembling his surroundings prior to death, for a long period subsequent j (
to death, so that ho conceives himself to be chained and imprisoned within walls, | (
though if he did but know it, he might be free as air. We have found beggars jy
haunting the spot where they had been accustomed to offer their petitions for ||j
relief; we have found ancient soldiers still occupied in guarding castles long \)
before crumbled into the dust, or performing their accustomed military rounds; I)
we have found troops of “holy friars” still from time to time silently wending j)
their way in solemn procession to the accustomed place of worship (still, to them, I)
existing by virtue of the creative power of the mind), and bearing aloft the sacred ; (
“ host”; and whenever any of these have come to the circle, they have invariably |(
spoken of persons and places as they were at the time they passed over, and as, to j\
them, yet existing. \)
Wherever we have turned, we have been compelled to realise that in the sphere j i
immediately contiguous to the earth there dwell the spirits of thousands who |I
passed away in the dark ages, and this locality, rich in historical interest, is also j)
rich in mysteries of this kind. And we are told that until this dark influence, j (
which is pressing down like an incubus upon the spiritual bosom of this planet, ! <
is to. some extent removed, the light from the higher spheres can neither flow into I (
this world freely, nor penetrate it deeply. And here lies work in the future for j \
Spiritualists. j j
Thus, while the enemies of truth have been triumphantly anticipating the final j)
collapse of Spiritualism, there has been quietly initiated a phase which I am con- j)
fident is destined to spread its influence over the world. Literally following the j)
example of that very Jesus whom these same enemies swear by, we have gone j(
forth and preached to the “spirits in prison.” Religion and science have been j(
truly wedded, for while charity impelled us, our knowledge of spiritual laws
enabled us to free these poor creatures from the consequences of their total ignor- j (
ance of the conditions of spirit-life. The fashionable “ ministers of religion ” of j j
the present day, appointed to instruct their flocks in spiritual things, are igno- j)
rantly striving to obstruct the very light which can dissipate the gross darkness I)
which covers the people. There are also those in the spirit-world who try to |)
prevent any being rescued from the darkness in which we find them. i j
We are determined to persevere in our work, and have already made arrange- ] j
ments for prosecuting the “ holy crusade ” during the approaching summer months; j j
we are also making preparations for carrying out the needful processes in a more j (
scientific manner., j j
I should hope that other circles all over the country, with their controls, may j j
be induced to follow our example. They will not regret it, for not only will they j)
be gladdened by the gratitude of those whom they succour, but they will neces- j)
sarily become acquainted with many curious spiritual laws, and possessed of a 11
knowledge which will enable them to become saviours to their fellows. Startling j (
discoveries, which space does not allow specific reference to, will spring up in jj
their path, and nothing will be more vividly brought home to their minds than the , | S
truth of Milton’s lines— jj
“Millions lj
Of spiritual beings walk the earth, i j
Both when we wake, and when we sleep, [ j
Unseen.” U
The advantages of a widespread area of effort in the direction pointed out will j)
be the removal of much of the dark and spfritually-stifling influences which now U
crowd around the earth, obstructing the descent of knowledge from the higher |(
spheres. The souls of men will breathe more freely and become more receptive j (
of the light which the spirit-world is endeavouring to throw upon them. The . jj
consequence of this will be the inauguration of a new era of progress in every | j
department of science and knowledge, while true religion will be the more j j
made manifest. In addition to this, those who will have been rescued from a jj
miserably dormant state to a life of happy activity will become the willing jj
servants in the hands of those who saved them, and will no doubt become a vast | j
power under the direction of the higher intelligences of both worlds, for the j j
purpose of proving to incredulous mankind the truths of Spiritualism in a way ! v
which shall come home to the mind of the most stubborn materialist. We expect. ij
great things in this way from our own proteges. I j
Any queries relating to the above will be readily answered, and further ij
particulars given in comse of time. ■(
Let every Spiritualist press steadily and hopefully forward in his peculiar work, ij
and leave the so-called “ men of science ” to jeer and jibe as they may. “ Truth i
is immortal and cannot die.” j)
THE DISCUSSION—HOUSE HAUNTINGS AT PORT GLASGOW—AN OBSESSED j j
MEDIUM. j
Mr. John Rouse said that he had had experiences, agreeing to a large extent i j
with those in the paper, so accepted the facts contained therein as true.
Mr. Morse: Personal experience alone can throw light upon this subject. I jj
think that the paper records facts, and facts that are more general than jj
commonly supposed. Mr. John Scott, of Belfast, I have heard, tells startling j)
narratives about haunting spirits. It is evident that we make spiritual con- j j
ditions for ourselves in the next world by our lives and conduct here. We jj
should, therefore, be as aspirational as possible.
Mr. H. T. Humphreys said that Lord Dunraven told in a book he had written j
about Spiritualism, how he had had a seance in the old abbey of Adare with jj
Mr. D. D. Home, and had manifestations there from an old monk whose spirit j j
had been there for two or three centuries. Swedenborg also stated that some j j
people had been in the spirit world for a hundred years without knowing it. jj
Mr. Glendinning: Haunting spirits come back sometimes to give warnings j j
by noises or otherwise. There was a house-haunting case at Port Glasgow, j j
the particulars of which will be found in the Report of the Committee of the j j
Dialectical Society, and when the spirit was asked what was his object in jj
making the disturbances, he said that he merely wished to draw attention, j j
The noises were heard by from fifty to three hundred people at a time, and j j
while several policemen were walking about among them. Some of uS wished j (
to hold a circle in the house, but the superintendent of police thought that there j j
ought to be no Spiritualism there ; the tenant was a quiet gardener, afraid to I j
try experiments in opposition to the wishes of the police. The spirit who j j
made the noises fully proved his identity; the dates of occurrences and the j j
description given of the spirit by one of our mediums proved to bo accurate, j j
Whilst the house was full of people pieces of coal and solid objects would fly jj
about, and occasionally noises were heard as if made with a hammer. The jj
spirit said that he had died in the house thirty-three years before. There is a j j
person living in London now who once dwelt in that house, and he heard' jj
noises while he was living in it, but they were not so strong. Thus the haunt- j j
ings appear to have been irregular. j j
Miss Kislingbury: I know a lady who holds circles constantly for the j(
benefit of earth-bound spirits, who say that they gain much by her ministra-,
tions; they all appear at first to be unruly and ignorant, but gradually im¬
prove. In France it is a .common thing to hold circles for this purpose, and a
book, a translation by Miss Blackwell of one of Allan Kardec’s works, will
shortly be published, containing many interesting records of this kind. The
Baroness von Yay relates similar circumstances. Once I was in a room where
I was told that a heavy wardrobe was continually moved out of its place at
night, and sometimes the candle belonging to the person who slept in the room
was blown out by some invisible agency. We held a seance in the room, and
the entranced medium said that a spirit had done these things to attract atten¬
tion ; it was bound to the room by a crime, and could not leave it until she
had “ passed through a medium.” Several sittings were held, at which the
spirit entranced the medium, after which she said she could leave the locality,
and since that time there had been no disturbance of any kind in the room. I
have heard an account of friars passing through a room in monastic habits,
but am not sure whether the circumstances were subjective or objective.
Mr. J. J. Morse : Once I passed through a low neighbourhood in Bethnal-
green, and was seized by a low spirit who communicated in a more intelligent
manner at Mrs. Main’s circle. The spirit said she was a female who had lived
a dissolute kind of life. She possessed me for three or four days, much to my
disgust; I felt ill and sick all the time. Then she left me, but returned a few
weeks later greatly troubled in conscience at the agony she had inflicted upon
me, but she said that the effect of having controlled me for a time was that
she had been able to cut the cords which bound her to disagreeable conditions.
There is much danger to mediums if they are surrounded by bad conditions. It
was a very awful experience to me, and I do not wish it to be repeated. In
the book entitled Life Beyond the Grave, you will find that a spirit makes the
statement that there are spiritual parts of houses which sometimes remain
after the material parts have been pulled down.
The Chairman: I can quite accept statements about spirits being confined
to the states in which they die, because it would be unnatural if death
could release people from the effects of life-long habits.
The meeting was then adjourned until the evening.
A PAPER BY MRS. LOUISA LOWE — THE ENDS, AIMS AND USES OP MODERN
SPIRITUALISM—SPIRITUALISM IN ITS RELIGIOUS ASPECTS.
At the meeting of the Conference on Friday night, February 9th, Dr.
George Wyld presided, and the following paper was read by Mrs. Lowe,
Secretary to the Lunacy Law Reform Association
There are probably few subjects connected with the great modern revival of
external manifestations of spirit force on which a greater diversity of opinion
prevails than on its aims, ends and uses, and it is because these appear to me in
a light somewhat different from that to which they have appeared to many with
whom I have conversed on the subject, that I venture now to address you. Not
that I would claim the slightest superiority, or even any balance of probability, in
favour of my own view, but simply because I believe it to be good and right that
every conviction or opinion honestly held should be openly expressed, fearlessly
cast into the crucible of public discussion, that its dross may be consumed, and the
little residuum of truth, if such there be, garnered into the storehouse of human
thought. The aims, ends and uses of Spiritualism appear then to me to be mainly
twofold. First, the refutation of the materialistic theory that thought, in which,
for the present argument, I include all moral and intellectual operations, is merely
an outcome from humanly material brain; and, secondly, to overthrow all external
authority in matters of thought: to free mankind from religious dogma and the
trammels of priestcraft—in a word, to teach the individual to make his own reason
an ultimate court of appeal in all matters of personal concernment. To many I
know this view will appear miserably narrow and inadequate. To such it has
been given to see in the marvellous manifestations of occult intelligence, which to
me have only confirmed the existence of such intelligence, proof of the continued
separate existence of those that they have loved and lost here below, and the firm
assurance of their own individual immortality. To me these manifestations have
brought no such conviction. I can, as I before said, only find in them proof that
some intelligence or intelligences do exist and act apart from ordinary matter, and
the inference that, since we everywhere behold analogy in nature, all intelligences
confined in mortal bodies will survive separation from them; but whether as
separate entities, or as parts of one greater intelligent aggregate, I know not—
almost could % add I care not. Whether our future is to be one of individuality
akin to that on earth, or whether the spirit that is in us shall, when severed from
the body, merge itself into some great life ocean, whence future races shall be
quickened, no less must it be our duty, our glory, and our joy, so to live and labour
that the tiny drop may depart from us purer and nobler than we received it.
Contrary opinions to these, however, are so widely held, and were at no remote
period so ably advocated, in my hearing, by one of our most honoured members in
this very room; scepticism as to the possibility of identifying the communicating
intelligence as that of some departed child of earth, will seem to many so
irrational, that a few words must be said in its justification. I am not ignorant of
the test system whereby the communicating intelligence is asked for a sign, or for
information presumed to be known only to the questioner and the individual
spiritually personated, and I fully admit that an amount of evidence of identity is
thereby obtained which, in the case of living persons, would be perfectly over¬
whelming and absolutely conclusive. We must, however, bear in mind this great
difference: in all cases of disputed identity here below, the claimant and his
examiner are alike embodied, they cannot read in one another’s brain, or, except
by collusion, become possessed of one another’s hidden knowledge; but in inter¬
communication between the embodied and unembodied, this position, as regards
the latter at least, is totally reversed. The fact that answers are given continually
to mental interrogations conclusively shows in the interrogated a power of
thought-reading which, for aught we know, is absolutely withoiit limit, and
which, therefore, in my opinion, renders all tests utterly valueless as proofs of
identity; for it is clear that, speaking generally at least, the questioner must
either know the answer to his own question, or, at any rate, how to get at it, and
that, therefore, the questioned, with his powers of thought-reading, and as it also
appears of inconceivably rapid locomotion, or of vision unrestricted by space, need
never be at a loss for the knowledge required. If it is objected that this theory
presupposes man to be surrounded with false and lying spirits, and refers
. Spiritualism to the origin ascribed to it by churchmen, namely, Satan, or the
Principle of Evil, I entirely deny the inference. Even on earth we do not hold
the law of truth to be literally and verbally binding in all cases. By common
consent the essence of falsehood is held to consist in an intention to deceive, and
thereby attain some desired object, and its unspeakable evil consists in the injury
done to society by destroying the mutual confidence of its members. The most
rigid moralist does not condemn fictitious narratives that can have no such effect,
and the greatest of moral teachers has taught us by His example the use of
religious fable and allegory. Granted that there exists an intelligence higher
than our own, to whom the education of this race is entrusted, it seems to me that
his use of personations and fictions in inculcating needful lessons is not necessarily
less pure, than a mother’s use of allegory in instructing her child. But although,
for the reason above given, I hold tests to be utterly valueless as proofs of iden¬
tity, and I will presently show why I think we should rejoice if such is the case ;
scientific tests are perfectly invaluable in showing the reality of some extraneous
force or intelligence; and the deepest gratitude is due not only from this
association, but from society in general, [to our Research Committee, for their
94
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Peb. 53, 1877,
unwearied patience and skill in bringing forward fresh and irrefragable proofs of
this great fact.
The second jnain end and use of Spiritualism appears to be the abrogation
, of -miracle .os- a sanction of doctrine, and thus the utter overthrow of all autho¬
ritative revelation. These use the word miracle in its ordinary acceptation, as
something out of the usual course of nature, as apparent, contradiction or arbitrary
overriding of its laws. In the earlier ages of the world, when the Creator was
held to speak directly to man, every such incident was ascribed to His direct
interposition, and the human channel in any way concerned in its occurrence, or
the medium as we should now call him, became at once invested in popula
esteem with a right authoritatively and infallibly to declare the will of the Deity,
in special union with whom the floating of an iron axe-head or other abnormal
incident had proved him to be. The repugnance of many of these teachings, not
only to modern science, but to modern morality, coupled with apprehension of
a renewal of similar claims, have probably mainly inspired the extreme viru¬
lence with which the whole doctrine of miracles is assailed. It is for modern
Spiritualism to abate that virulence by showing conclusively that so-called
miracle is not, and never has been, any true sanction of doctrine, for that
it pertains exclusively to no time or race, but is equally the heritage of Jew
and Gentile, whatever his colour, his language, or his creed. In one word,
to us Spiritualists is entrusted the noble mission of freeing mankind from
the tyranny of superstition and of theological dogma. That the Spiritualistic
manifestations of to-day effectually do this cannot be denied, since it is clearly
impossible to assert that because the Evangelist Philip or his compeers was
abnormally carried from Gaza to Azotus his doctrines are infallibly true, and
of perpetual obligation, or mankind without affirming the same proposition
concerning all to whom similar incidents have occurred^—a proposition so palpably ! (j
absurd in the face of present experience as not to require refutation. Para- IJ
doxical as the assertion may seem, it is in the impurities, and above all, the in- IJ |
consistencies and the incongruities of modern revelation that I find its chief value. I j |
"Were the communications made to us through direct or through passive writing, i jj
or any other extra mundane channel uniformly consonant to our reason and moral ! j]
sense, it might be possible to forge thereout fresh theological chains to impede iu
progress in the future, as similar chains have done in the past; while if uniformly ; i
bad their rejection would be absolute, and the hold on the human mind of ancient I j
Scriptures would not be hereby weakened. How essential that weakening is to i j
human progress can scarcely be over-estimated. Whence have come the cruellest ! I
wars and fiercest persecutions that have so often desolated mankind save from j)
this chimera of reliably infallible external revelation? Why are we, as a nation, j |
still worshipping a book, in parts, it is true, grand and sublime, but in others j I
equally obscene and depraving ? Why are our young children’s minds to be ; I
polluted with graphic and loathsome tales of vice which, if they occurred to-day, ] j
would be tried in the judge’s private room, except that man has gone on from age ! j
to age trusting to miracle rather than reason as the test and sanction of doctrine ? j j
It would not be easy to gauge either the mischief this trust has wrought, or the i j
benefits likely to accrue from its overthrow. Till that overthrow is complete, till j j
the bulk of the nation is emancipated from slavish subejetion to the Bible, I, for | j
one, dare not hope for great or rapid social progress. Whatever its uses may j j
once have been, it is incontestable now . that the Bible is a mighty obstruction to ] (
the removal of some of our worst social abuses. Who has not heard the words of | j
a Peter or Paul quoted in support of woman’s degradation and the iniquities of our | j
marriage laws ? Who, when his heart and voice have cried out at sight of the | j
misery of the masses, has not been told that it is God’s will that “ the poor be j 5
ever with us,” and therefore that the hope and struggle for universal well-being is i) j
rebellion against Him ? Truly were modern Spiritualism to do nothing else than j |j
show to man that revelation, by which I mean communications from other than ijl
human sources, is not necessarily divine, it would have conferred an inestimable j (j
boon upon the world. But I am far from saying that the aims and uses of nj
Spiritualism are purely destructive; on the contrary, .even to myself in former ] j I
days, when I largely practised passive writing, there was given a theology, in i) j
my judgment, far more in harmony with the thought and aspirations of pious j j!
minds to-day than is that of orthodoxy, and I know one instance in which I j!
an elderly person fast bound in the narrow fetters of sectarianism, and cut off j I!
from all mundane aids to mental growth, was in a few months, through passive i (l
writing alone, landed on the broadest platform of religious and social reformers, j jj
Some private mediums, whose high spirituality claims a respectful hearing, predict i j j
a rapidly approaching period when, to each child of man, shall be granted a spirit- 11 j
guide to counsel and aid him to an upward course, and certainly the revelations i)!
directly made to myself countenance this opinion. Personally, I lean much to the j j j
opinion that the time is come at least for the more advanced races, when, eman- j j j
cipated from the child’s servitude, we are to walk in the adult son’s liberty, and i j j
with head erect exchange the revelation of command for that of companionship i j!
and counsel. Be this as it may, however", our present task is manifestly to assure j js
unto mediumship free and fearless exercise, safe alike from prosecutions in the i j i
law courts and persecutions in the mad-houses. To this end let us turn a bold j j j
and, above all, a united front to the foe. Let us make them feel that,in attacking i )i
the very meanest of our brethren, so he be honest, disinterested and true, they are i
attacking us all; that there is not one among us who would not go to prison, !<j
and, if need were, to death, in vindication of our §rand new charter of free It
thought, unconventiality, and universal toleration. Let us press onward to its i (j
legitimate outcome of universal brotherhood—in one word, let us stand fast by i i j
that glorious Gospel of Emancipation—Modern Spiritualism! ] | j
THE DISCUSSION—THE RELIGIOUS ASPECTS OP SPIRITUALISM.
Mr. Shorter agreed in the main with the paper, but did not think that ;) ]
Spiritualism had been required to show that miracle was no proof of doctrine, i j!
The Bible did not assert anywhere that its own doctrines were infallible, and j j
all the more advanced theologians had long ago abandoned this teaching. He I J|
thought one of the chief uses of Spiritualism was its relation to science; it iji
opened up new fields of research, and finer physics and subtler laws than any I j I
at present known. What explanation had science yet given of the movement j j j
of solid objects without contact? of knocks, raps, and other sounds? No jjj
laws of acoustics were at present known which could account for their origin, j /!
Again, with regard to history, one of the chief uses of Spiritualism was to I (j
explain many hitherto inexplicable events which modem critical historians jjj
had been obliged to reject on their present theories. In addition, Spiritualism j j
threw light on the interesting question of inspiration and miracles, not to j | j
mention immortality, the most important of all, and which he considered that j j j
it established beyond a doubt. ijl
Dr. Carter Blake thought that Spiritualism had little influence on our ideas i j i
about a future life or theological dogma. To him Spiritualism offered a j j j
number of physical facts, perfectly true, in which he did not see any moral ; j j
bearing whatever. Identity appeared to him to be unproved, except in the j j I
rarest instances, but he had had a certain amount of proof in a message given I) j
by a friend of his own on a slate through Dr. Slade’s mediumship. He thought ' i | j
Mrs. Lowe’s paper indicated the judicious minimum that Spiritualists as a body I (I
should, would, could, or ought to believe respecting the physical facts. j j i
Mr. Rouse agreed with the strict scientific treatment of Spiritualism, and he j H
thought that it was the only way in which the^world at large would accept it. j ) j
He had a good deal of mediumship in his own family, and he had always j{j
found that the physical fact of a table rising in the air was the best way of j f j
convincing inquirers. With regard to the religious question, the general jj!.
teaching in our schools and elsewhere to the young was that the Bible is I h
infallible, otherwise why do people commonly say that these manifestations are
from the devil ? Where did they get this notion, if not from the Bible ?
Mr. Glendinning was of opinion that Mrs. Lowe had gone out of her way in
attacking the Bible. He thought Mr. Morse had shown in his remarks on the
previous day that Spiritualism had a strong influence on the religious
character, and he thought it unwise in our advocacy of Spiritualism to intro¬
duce that Which might give offence to large numbers of persons.
Mrs. Hallock had to thank Spiritualism that she was on the side of the
Bible. Mrs. Lowe had no doubt suffered from the attacks of the orthodox,
and therefore felt strongly on that side of the question. She found that women
were respected in the Bible generally, but she thought the gospel of Eve had
been left out. (Laughter.) Mrs. Lowe had been in bad company at the
Dialectical Society, and as for Dr. Carter Blake, he was an out-and-out heathen,
who only understood Greek. (Cheers and laughter.) With regard to identity.
It was difficult to prove it to others, but she had had many proofs of it, and
had been able to give them to her friends. She thought Spiritualists now
were chiefly wanting in spirituality, and it was to this they had to look for an
extension of their influence.
Mr. Morse said he should protest against Mr. Rouse’s theory of scientific
Spiritualism. He wanted his soul to be elevated, and he quite agreed with
what Mrs. Hallock had said about spirituality. He would divide theology
from religion, and judge of dogma from the spiritual more than from the in¬
tellectual standpoint. Spiritualism had explained more to him in the Bible
than any other teacher. The great use of Spiritualism in his idea was to make
our lives better.
Mr. Joy said that the various kinds of spiritual phenomena acted differently
on various minds. Physical phenomena had had no effect in making him a
Spiritualist, but the mental phenomena-—such as written messages, proving
identity, trance communications, and so on—had brought conviction to him.
He thought it best to leave theological discussion out of the question; it only
gave offence and did no good. The great use of Spiritualism was its moral
effect, but it was a great mistake to suppose, as some Spiritualists seemed to
him to do, that a mere belief in Spiritualism was alone any kind of safeguard
against moral obliquity or any atonement for it.
Dr. Wyld said that the adverse views held by some Spiritualists regarding
the Bible and Christianity, had evidently been derived not from careful study,
but from the distorted teachings of narrow-minded sectarianism. For himself
he found the Bible the most profoundly interesting of all books, and
Christianity as exhibited in the life and teachings of its divine and miraculous
Founder, the perfection of religion and morality. This religion and morality
are thus expressed by Christ himself:—“ Hear, 0 Israel, the Lord thy God is
one Lord; and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and
strength and mind, and thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these
two hang all the law and the prophets, and none other commandment is greater
than these.” Dr. Wyld could not conceive of any religion and morality higher
than that. The love of God is religion, the love of our neighbour, our brother
and sister is morality. If analysed it would be found that all immorality is
only self-indulgence at the expense of others, but he who loves his brother and
sister as himself cannot be guilty of these immoralities. But although modern
Spiritualism had not taught him any higher truths than those he arrived at
some thirty-five years ago by a long and prayerful study of the mind and life
of Christ, still it had given him this blessing, that it had by facts and revela¬
tions confirmed him in his belief. The grand object of Spiritualism seemed to
Dr. Wyld to be that its facts at once and for ever refuted the nonsense of
materialism—the superstition of materialism as Mr. Harrison had so well put
it. In his brother’s book, The World Dynamical and Immaterial, the author
attempted to show, chiefly by reasoning on the instability of matter as illus¬
trated by chemical changes, formations and transformations, that matter is
only an appearance assumed by forces, and that forces are only the directions
taken by the mind and will of God. Spiritual phenomena would seem to con¬
firm this view, and our experiences regarding the passage of matter through
matter, and, more astounding still, our experiences regarding the dissolution,
reformation, and transfiguration of human beings would go to confirm the idea
that there is a spiritual chemistry analogous to inorganic chemistry and applic¬
able to organic structures, and even to the bodies of human beings. These
astounding facts were surely miracles, if Dr. Wyld’s definition of miracle bo
correct, that it is the power of spirit over matter. And as regarding miracles
themselves, although miraculous powers, possessed as they are by evil spirits,
are not necessarily proofs of a divine revelation, still Dr. Wyld could not
conceive of the divine and miraculous man Jesus Christ apart from his miracu¬
lous works, these being a necessity of his nature, and a demonstration of
his law of faith. He would now call upon Mrs. Lowe to reply.
Mrs. Lowe replied to those who had taken part in the debate en masse, and
observed that she did not presume to speak for the scientific. Being herself
one of the great unlearned, she addressed herself to her equals, and asserted
again that for the bulk of the nation the Bible was in theory at least an
absolutely divinely inspired book; that moreover such was its legal status,
the articles of the Church of England declaring it to be binding as such on all
men, and that on no other ground was it possible for the clergy to justify the
giving to the young of many portions that were read publicly before the late
reform in the calendar. She deprecated the idea of being held to undervalue
the Bible as a grand book, partially inspired ; but repeated that belief in its
infallibility greatly hindered social reforms, and that it seemed to her as irra¬
tional to think that any revelation made to a progressive race could be final
and all-sufficient, as to try to educate a man for life with the primer of his
infancy.
A PAPER BY MR. G. P. GREEN—THE IDENTITY OP THE COMMUNICATING
SPIRITS—WHAT CONSTITUTES EVIDENCE OF IDENTITY?
Mr. G. F. Green then read the following paper on “ The Identity of tho
Communicating Spirits ”:—■
The most important question which presents itself to the inquirer, who has
passed the threshold of Spiritualism, and assured himself of the genuineness of the
phenomena, is, that of the origin of the communications. There will soon come to
the unprejudiced observer, evidence which will satisfy him of the existence of an
intelligence distinct from that of the medium, or of the other persons sitting in the
circle. I know there are a few, amongst whom I may name Serjeant Cox, the
President of the Psychological Society, who stop short of this conclusion, but I
shall take it for granted nevertheless, that the distinct individuality of the in¬
telligence, whatever it be (which for brevity we will call spirit), is a thing already
sufficiently proved. . It would be unprofitable here, to attempt to make good,
grounds upon which the majority of Spiritualists are agreed. But the moment we
leave this .conclusion, we are treading on slippery places, and it behoves all who
would follow the light of reason, and avoid the reproach of blind fanaticism, to
consider well their position.
i
Feb. 23, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST
95
I do not hesitate to give it as my opinion, that the greater part of the communi¬
cations, purporting to come from departed persons, are of doubtful origin, that the
identity claimed by spirits is often demonstrably false. It may be said that these
are mere truisms, and no experienced Spiritualist has need to be reminded of them.
The more, however, I consider the difficulty of discriminating between the trust¬
worthy, and the untrustworthy in these spirit messages and teachings, and the
almost impossibilityof obtaining such a thing as a perfect test of identity, by the aid
of our natural powers, alone, the less am I inclined to coincide with that opinion.
It must be admitted that there is 'much loose reasoning on this subject, and very
inconclusive evidence is often accepted as sufficient, especially if it occurs at a
private circle of Spiritualists.
The element of possible deception on the part of the medium, being eliminated,
the Spiritualist is very apt to argue thus with himself: “ It is true personating
spirits are commonly enough attendant at mixed circles, but this is the natural
result of the frame of mind in which the sitters approach the subject. Frivolity
and undevelopment attract like qualities, but to those who are earnestly seeking
for truth, serious and good spirits will be drawn by affinity, which is one of the
most constant laws of the spiritual world.”. There appears to me to be a grave
error in this belief, if we may reason at all from the analogies of this life. We
do not find that the innocent and credulous, however benevolent and truth-loving
they may be, are, as a rule, more exempt from imposition than others being much
the reverse. The law of affinity, however, is not inactive, but low, selfish, un¬
principled spirits in the flesh will come to such persons nevertheless, in obedience
to another law, the nature of which it is not necessary here to examine. I do not
believe the law of affinity is the-owZy law in the spiritual world, any more than it
is here.
We must find some other theory to “ justify the ways of God to man” than this
of supposing exemption from error and imposition follows directly from good
intentions alone.
None are exempt from imposture, and none from error, except those who use
the proper means of sifting the evidences of truth, whether the question be one of
physical, or moral, or spiritual knowledge.
There is another objection which I believe has weighed with some to prevent a
very rigorous inquiry into the proofs of identity. It is the fear of offending the
•pirits by the expression of doubts. I remember a passage in one of Allan
Kardec’s books, in which he states that communicating spirits are as liable as
mortals to take offence at the suspicion of imposture, which is always implied in
the desire for tests and proofs. This certainly seems plausible, and it may be
true in certain cases, but it is evidently not a sufficient reason for renouncing
necessary credentials. What should we say, if an annuitant took offence at the
formalities of identification required by the law, which are necessary for his own
protection. Are we then to suppose that the spirits of our departed friends would
be offended at our asking for, nay, insisting upon, like proofs. If, seeing and
knowing, as the beloved ones who have passed away must see and know, the
agony of doubt and hope which prompt our demands, they refuse on such paltry
grounds to satisfy us, they are assuredly not our friends at all; they have lost the
identity we know them by. There may be, and I have no doubt there are often
difficulties in the way of granting us the particular tests we desire, but I cannot
believe that they proceed from this cause. Even if it were so, we could do no
other than continue to demand tests of identity, for it would be better to offend
some than to believe all spirits promiscuously. In the absence of any means of
verifying communications which relate to the spiritual world (I speak of normal
methods of investigation), their value must depend entirely upon their origin.
In like manner messages of affection, advice, or consolation, are only valuable as
coming from an authentic source. We cannot judge of these things by their in¬
trinsic merits, for they relate to a life we are totally ignorant of. We now come to
the question, What are the proofs of spirit identity which we ought to accept as
sufficient? A few general observations of the meaning to be attached to the
words “ proof” and “ identity” may be useful here. The word “ proof ” is some¬
times taken to have a meaning which it does not properly bear. Proof is the
evidence which is sufficient to carry conviction to the mind. But the nature and
amount of evidence necessary to bring conviction vary greatly with different
individuals. What we call “absolute proof” is the evidence which (it is believed)
would convince every sane mind. But as this quality of a so-called absolute
proof can never be thoroughly tested, the very strongest and most undisputed
“ proof” is nothing more than a high degree of probability. The nearest approach
to absoluteness of proof which is ever attained, is when a truth after its first
demonstration or manifestation remains quite undisputed. This definition, if we
think of it, embraces but very few of the articles of faith (sometimes called
knowledge), upon, and by the strength of which, we direct our daily lives. It is
clear, therefore, that the practical value of proofs depend upon the state of our
knowledge at the time; and a truth which may seem to be sufficiently proved to¬
day, may be nevertheless the subject of reasonable doubt to-morrow. For an
example I may cite the proof of identity offered by Christ to the doubting apostle
Thomas, “ Beach hither thy hand, and thrust it into My side.” This was a sufficient
test to Thomas, and removed his doubts; but it would not be a conclusive proof of
identity, taken alone as an isolated fact, to a modern psychologist, who was
familiar with the phenomena of materialisation. If the materialised form is as we
have good reason to suppose, only a made up body,* which can be modified and
changed at the pleasure of the spirit manifesting, where is the proof of identity ?
It will be evident, from what I have said, that I do not regard the proofs of identity
which I shall advance, as finally conclusive (because there can be no finality of
proof as long as one doubter remains), but as being strong presumptive evidence
upon which belief in any other matter would be reasonably accorded.
Absolute identity (or sameness) like absolute proof, is really never to be found
except as an imperfect figure of speech. We lose a portion of our identity every
day we live, every time we breathe. Similarity is not identity, but identity is an
inference from similarity. It matters not for our purpose here, whether there is
an unchangeable something which Spiritualists call soul, or whether there is no
real identity, but only the appearance of it (as the materialists maintain), produced
by the persistence of form and position, in the changing atoms of which living
organisms are composed. If the latter theory be true, then the inference from
persistent similarity is wrong, but the laws of the evidence of this similarity
remain the same. What we have to deal with is the proper appreciation of these
laws, in the case of intelligent beings, whose existence we know of only by in¬
ference, and not directly through our senses. This observation does not apply
solely to spirits. I know a lady who has been in correspondence with a dear
friend for forty years, but she has never seen her face, or even any presentment of
it, nor has she ever had any direct sensuous evidence of her existence. In
considering the question of the origin of the so-called spirit communications,
which are given to us through various media, and not directly through our own
perceptions, everything depends upon the justness of the inferences which we
draw. Since the object of tests is to prove the fact of spirit communion to those
who are not gifted with any special power of spiritual perception, it is evident that
the visions of seers can only be admitted as corroborative testimony. If then
objective nature could be demonstrated, what further proof would be necessary?
But it is impossible to convey impressions so received to others, except by tropes
and symbols, which afford but a glimmer of light to the ordinary intelligence. I
shall, therefore, try to follow out the path of strict inductive reasoning, and take
nothing for granted but what may be arrived at by the ordinary methods of per¬
* Mr. Tapp related, at a recent discussion meeting of Spiritualists, that the materialised
form of Katie King at one of Professor Crookes's seances, was observed by two of the
sitters (himself and Dr. Gully), to have no bone in her wrist. On this being noticed to her,
she replied, “ 0,1 can soon make one,” which she very quickly did.
ception and generalisation. If it be admitted that the intelligence manifested at a
circle is not that of any of the sitters, whence can it emanate? Are there any
prirm facie probabilities which affect the case? I think there Are. First there
is presumptive evidence that it emanates from a being, or beings, akin to
humanity. The faculties of memory, reflection, foresight, and calculation are
human faculties; and since we have had no experience of such qualities apart from
humanity, it is perfectly fair to presume, all evidence to the contrary failing,
that where these qualities are manifested there is an entity allied to the human
entity. Secondly, if intelligences can exist apart from the human material
form, there is presumptive evidence that human intelligences may so exist;
and such would presumably be more interested in mundane affairs than any
other possibly existent intelligences, and would, therefore, be the most likely to
enter into communication with men. These are the a priori grounds on which
expectation may be rationally based; and it is not irrational when once the
existence of a distinct intelligence is proved, to incline to the belief that that in¬
telligence is of human origin.
It would be irrational only if we were to rest satisfied with rational pre¬
sumptions, where we might obtain the higher degree of probability which we
call proof. We must grasp the general before we can understand Vae>particular, but
we must also seek in the particular, confirmation of the general. In the case
before us nearly every particular instance of spirit communication confirms the
opinion that the spirit is a human being. (1) The spirits almost invariably^claim
a human origin. (2) They display a knowledge of human affairs and human
nature. (3) They appear to exercise human powers. (4) We have the evidence
of seers, that they are endowed with spiritual bodies, though the natural eye
cannot see them. To any mind not prejudiced by foreign conclusions as to the
limits of existence, these various considerations should, I think, be regarded as
amounting to proof of the proposition “ that the intelligences who manifest their
presence at our circles are, at least in most cases, human beings.”
It still remains to be seen by what proofs the particular identity of a spirit may
be known. There are some persons who go with us so far as to admit the
human origin of the so-called Spiritual phenomena, but they say, no wonder they
should appear to be of human origin, for they proceed from the unconscious
action of the minds and organic powers of the sitters themselves. I have not
attempted to deal with this view of the question, because, as I said at the be¬
ginning of my paper, there are very few who seriously hold it.
It may be shown to be not only a difficult theory, but one that is utterly
inadequate to explain all the facts. At the same time it invests the human
organism with powers of duplex action far transcending anything that the most
credulous Spiritualist could entertain as probable. The mind, acting consciously
and unconsciously at the same time—displaying intelligence, and obtaining in¬
formation consciously through the bodily organs, and unconsciously through a
different medium at the same time. Such a proposition is so unthinkable that I
cannot regard it as the offspring of reason, but rather as the child of phantasy,
mated with prejudice.
To return from this digression, what are the particular proofs of identity which
should be deemed conclusive ? (1) Are the assertions of the spirits themselves
sufficient? No; because experience shows they are often false. (2) Is the
knowledge of names and facts unknown to the medium sufficient ? No; because
this knowledge may be obtainable by other spirits. (3) Is the knowledge of
anything known only to one of the sitters sufficient? No; because under cer¬
tain conditions, spirits possess the power of thought-reading. (4) Is a written
communication in the characteristic handwriting of a deceased person a sufficient
proof of identity? No; because handwriting may be counterfeited. (5) Is a
spirit photograph proof of identity ? No; because it is only a picture, we know
not how produced, and may as well have been produced by indirect, as by direct
means. (6) Is a materialised spirit-form a proof of identity ? No; be9a1ise we
have no sufficient reason to believe that such forms could not be produced arti¬
ficially by other spirits than those they are supposed to embody.
None of these things, taken separately, is a sufficient proof of identity
to be perfectly convincing; yet, taken together, they offer precisely the same
kind of evidence that we are in the habit of accepting of the identity of
men in the flesh, whom, perhaps, we have never seen, or had lost sight of for
many years.
For instance, a son leaves his father’s house at an early age, and goes into a
distant country to seek his fortune, and all trace of him is lost. After a long lapse
of years he is heard of once again. The information of his existence comes by a
letter (which may be a forgery), it is followed by another, and another; but the
parents, having believed him to be dead, require some further confirmation of their
revived hopes. It is true the letters appear to come from some one who is well
acquainted with their history, and are full of affectionate remembrances and kind
messages. There is no apparent reason for deception, but the parents are still in
doubt, for they cannot overcome the long-settled conviction that their son is dead.
Then, perhaps, they receive a photograph which is like, yet in some respects un¬
like, what they remember him to have been. It too may be a forgery! Where
shall they look for absolute proof that their son is not really dead, but living ?
I need not continue the picture any further. Each one can fill in the details as
he pleases. There is little doubt in my mind that, under such conditions, the son
would finish by proving his identity to the satisfaction of his parents, simply by
the perseverance in the same kind of proofs as those which at first failed. Now,
the only difference to be discerned between this case and the case of a son who
had passed into the spirit world, lies, not in the nature of the evidence which can be
giyen, but in the amount. Evidence which is constantly repeated, acquires, by the
sole fact of its reiteration, a potency of conviction, which it would not otherwise
possess. We come at last to believe a thing which may be in itself by no nlfeans
self-evident, if it is only reiterated often enough in our ears. It is to the multi¬
plication of proofs that we must chiefly look for evidence of the identity of our
friends departed. If I am expected in this paper to name any single test, which
in itself would be absolutely convincing, and silence all doubters, I say such a
thing is impossible. Give me any single test which would suffice to identify a
spirit in the body in the case which I .have imagined, and then I will seek for
one to try the spirits by. I consider the tests, and most valuable tests of spirit
identity, are dependent on the permanence of moral and mental characteristics,
and the memory of former surroundings, and circumstances unknown to the
sitters. The best safeguard against deception, is the determination to believe
nothing which is opposed to the light of reason; to try every statement by
this test; to entertain at the same time a humble opinion of our own powers,
and to beware of the spiritual pride which “ precedeth a fall.”
While there are abundant reasons for accrediting the proofs of spirit identity
in many cases, there are also ample reasons to believe that personation is a
frequent occurrence. It is, however, generally easy of detection, for some
blunder must sooner or later expose the deception. The experienced Spiritualist
is not much troubled by wilful deception, but he may be deceived by the teachings
of spirits, if he regards them as authoritative. Again, the communications are
often vitiated by the medium through which they flow. It is not prudent to yield
implicit faith to any communicatipns, unless they come to us through mediums of
undoubted truthfulness; and, even then, in cases where identity is of importance,
not without corroborative internal evidence. It is a very difficult matter to obtain
convincing proofs of spirit identity by means of our ordinary faculties, and so
long as our spiritual faculties are undeveloped, it is best not to rely on spirit com¬
munications too much, lest we should find that we had abandoned a short-sighted
guide—reason—for an utterly blind one—credulity. Inferences drawn from the
evidence of our own senses aje quite as often erroneous as those which are
accepted without this kind of proof. “If ye believe not Moses and the pro¬
phets, neither will ye believe though one rose from the dead.”
96
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Feb. 23,1877,
THE DISCUSSION—APPEARANCE OP THE SPIRITS OP PERSONS STILL LIVING IN
THE BODY. |
Dr. Wyld narrated a fact regarding spiritual apparitions, as given to him a !
few hours ago. The young lady who gave him the facts was pre-eminently
truthful, wise and logical; and her testimony was, therefore, all the more I
interesting and instructive. She said: “About fifteen years ago, I was I
walking home, after a long, laborious and exhausting day, passed among the
poor, feeling cold and weary, and feeling how delightful it would be to get
home and go into the kitchen to warm and comfort myself. At this moment, ;
two servants being in our kitchen, one saw the door-handle turn and the door
open of itself, and the other saw her young mistress walk into the kitchen,
and proceed at once to the fire to warm herself, when, suddenly, the appa- j
rition disappeared. The servant, in great alarm, proceeded upstairs to her I
mistress, and said, ‘ Oh, something must have occurred to Miss ! I saw j
her as distinctly as I see you, walk into the kitchen and go up to the fire, and
she had green gloves on !’ The mistress replied: ‘ Oh, you must be wrong; i
my daughter never wears green gloves.’ The servant returned to the kitchen, j
and shortly afterwards the Miss walked in bodily towards the kitchen i
fire. Sure enough, she had green gloves on her hands, which she had bought j
that day, not being able at the shop to get the hlack gloves she usually wore, j
Here we have an instance of the spirit of a living person assuming at a i
distance the ghostly form, and the proof of identity was perfect. He (Dr. j
Wyld) had always held the idea that, as we were spirits, there existed no j
reason why our spirits should not be able to perform all the wonderful works j
performed by the spirits of the departed. The above narrative confirmed this j
idea; and, not only so, but proved that the spirit of the individual may per- j
form these works unknown to the human individual. Hence, at seances, we i
cannot ever be certain that the phenomena may not be produced by the spirit
of one or other of those present. On the other hand, as the identity of the j
spirit of a being in the flesh is proved by the above narrative, there exists no j1
. reason why the identity of spirits not in the flesh should not be equally I'
capable of proof. The proof, however, although amply sufficient ffir those I (
immediately concerned, may yet be of too subtle a nature to be accepted as a j i
demonstration by those who receive it secondhand. 11
Mr. Joy thought this case was hardly to be called materialisation, as the I j
lady had projected her double, or “ spook,” from a distance, and it was more j
probably a subjective appearance only. |
Mr. Rouse said that, about four years ago, he was a member of a circle in j
London, and had to leave to go to Norwich. When walking on the high road j
one evening, he saw in the distance a lady coming along the road; he took !
her to be at first a country woman walking into Norwich, but when he got j (
nearer he saw she was in evening dress. He then found her to be a lady he j (
knew in London, a member of his circle; she held out her hand to him, and ]
seemed about to speak. A ringing noise on some railway near caused him to j)
look round, and she was gone. He wrote to know if anything had happened j (
to the lady, and he learned she had at that time passed into a deep trance, I (
from which she was only brought back with difficulty. Other like cases had j(
come under his personal notice. S
Mr. Glendinning said that the best cases of identity were generally given in )
private life, and were connected with incidents that could not be made public. (
He had been told by a medium that a friend of his in Japan, whom he j(
believed to be alive and well, was present at a circle; shortly afterwards ho j J
received a telegram announcing the death of that friend. !)
Mr. Shorter said he had been told of apparitions of himself which had been i(
seen by his friends, generally preceding his actual arrival at their house; | (
physical sounds, such as his footsteps on the stairs, had been heard at the j (
time. He quite agreed with most of the Statements in Mr. Green’s paper, and )
he thought it unnecessary to go out of our way for new hypotheses, when )
proofs of a simple and rational one are constantly forthcoming. (
Mrs. Lowe said she could not agree with the essayist, that no one propf of (
identity could be given. In the case referred to by him, of a son long absent )
from his home, perfect knowledge of the occurrences and more secret inci- )
dents of his childhood would prove him to be the person he stated. She (
thought, in the discussion, there had been a good deal of begging the question. j
It was assumed that the manifestations certainly came from spirit entities; )
that might be the case, but it was equally possible that they might be the j)
manifestations of some great spirit power above our ken. She did not see I r
what good would arise from proving identity, even if it were possible. We j (
were in England far too subservient to authority in these matters, and it n
would be good to judge communications by their nature, and not by their ;)
alleged origin. We were always looking for the r stamp of the mint.” One i)
great lesson of Spiritualism, she thought, would be to teach us to walk by our j (
own reason, and to listen to the inner voice of conscience. i (
Mr. Morse proposed a vote of thanks to Mr. Green and Mrs. Lowe for their IJ
interesting papers ; also to the Chairman for his kind services in presiding. j)
This was seconded by Dr. Carter Blake, and carried with acclamation. ;(
The proceedings of the 1877 Conference thus closed. \)
iltottg. I
“YOU ASK ME WHY?” |j
You ask me why I dwell alone l(
While beauty may be wooed, i>
And I might win some loving one, j)
To cheer my solitude ? I (
Ah! there’s a world beyond the tomb, i(
Superbly bright and fair, jj
Where death can nevermore consume, I;
And she I loved is there! 1 , |)
To some the happiness is given !)
To claim the dear one theirs; r
But mine was from my young life riven, j (
And caught to angel spheres. \ K
And now beyond the tomb she waits, I)
With arms outstretched wide, I ?
To meet me at the golden gates, ! (
My soul’s eternal bride! K
G. Ashworth. j 5
| (
The Marylehone Society of. Spiritualists holds a tea-meeting next |>
Sunday evening. 1)
A SPIRIT FORM.
Some interesting seances have been held recently with
public and private mediums, at the house of Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-
square, London. Last Monday evening ten or twelve
friends sat round a large circular table, with their hands
joined, under which conditions, Mr. W. Eglinton, the
medium, was held on both sides. There were no other per¬
sons in the room than those seated at the table. An expir¬
ing fire gave a dim light, permitting only the outlines of
objects to be visible. The medium sat at that part of the
table which was nearest to the fire, consequently his back
was to the light. A form of the full proportions of a man,
rose slowly from the floor to about the level of the edge of
the table; it was about a foot behind the right elbow
of the medium. The other nearest sitter was Mrs.
Wiseman, of Orme-square, Bayswater. This form
was covered with white drapery, but no features were
visible. As it was tolerably near to the fire, it could
be seen distinctly by those near it. It was seen by all who
were so placed that the edge of the table or intervening
sitters did not cut off the view of the form; thus it was
observed by four or five persons altogether, and was not
the result of subjective impressions. After rising to the
level of the edge of the table, it sank downwards and was
no more seen, having apparently exhausted all the power.
Mr. Eglinton was in a strange house and in evening dress.
Altogether it was a test manifestation which could not have
been produced by artificial means. Among those present at
this seance were Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., Mrs. Davies, Mrs. Ramsay, Mr. C.
C. Massey, Dr. Wyld, Mrs. Wiseman, Miss Poyntz, and
Mr. W. H. Harrison.
In America Spiritualists have been somewhat annoyed by demoralised
physical mediums, who have been going about showing real mediumship
as conjuring tricks, and who call themselves “ exposers.” It will be
easy to deal with such persons in England if they spring up, by the
prosecution of them at once by those who attended at their seances on
payment in the belief that the phenomena were genuine.
Premonitions.—Many well-authenticated evidences of remarkable
presentiments of coming disaster are recorded, and one that is unusually
surprising is the case of a Mr. Feese, of Ohio. A few years ago he was
away from home with his wife and children. When about to return, a
strange disinclination seized him to go by a certain train, and his mind
was weighed down by a powerful impression of some impending calamity.
Not long before he had a kind of waking dream, in which he saw Ms
wife and children in coffins in a church, as distinctly and vividly as
though real, and yet he was wide awake. But he thought it would be
foolish to be influenced by such impressions, and went on. The result
was a railroad disaster, in wMch his wife and both Ms cMldren were
killed. He resolved then that if he should ever have another pre¬
monition of the kind he would heed it. Just before the late terrible
disaster near Ashtabula, on the Lake Shore Railroad, he was away from
home with his family, having married again, and was intending to
return on the train wMch was destroyed, when the same presentiment
came over him as before, and he went another way, and so escaped that
terrible calamity.—Boston Herald.
Mediumship among the American Indians.—Daniel Bacon, of
Boice City, writes:—“ The Indians of Idaho recognise the presence of
their spirit friends, and have many phases of mediumship. During the
Modoc war, we invariably obtained news of engagements, as well as
results of battles, from friendly Indians, six or seven days in advance of
the mails, there being no telegraph here at the time. Three years ago
I had in my employ an old Indian ; one day after finishing his labours
he came to me and clapping his hands together as if handcuffed, said,
‘ Me see um soldiers tyum three Salt Lake Indians. What for l Me
no say! ’ Knowing the troops were scouting for Barock Indians who
had murdered some whites near Fort Hall, I said, ‘ May be they are
the Indians who killed the white men in the mountains last summer.’
He replied, ‘ No, Salt Lake Indians no killum white men. Banock
Indians killum white men.’ It was several days before the mail
brought the news that the supposed murderers were captured and
taken to Fort Hall: but on their examination they were acquitted. The
following account I received from the wife of one of the officers of
Fort Boice : ‘ Several days before the telegram bringing the news of
Custer’s death was received, an Indian went into ecstatic fits, dancing
and pointing towards the Black Hills, while he kept reiterating the
words e Way up.’ He was thought to be insane, but after his excitement
had subsided, he informed them that the Indians were killing the whites
way over t’other side of the mountains.’ These Indians believe that in
the event of war with the whites, the spirits of their dead relatives will
come to their assistance, and they will be so charmed that the
balls of their enemies will have no effect on them. They practise
the spiritual mode of healing, are very healthy, and the happiest
mortals on earth.—Religio-Philosophical Journal.
Feb. 23, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit-
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Cd.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book containsa masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
PLANOHETTE ; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically usefhl work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums ,)also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, hut
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or, the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargept. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-8upcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatoiogy; Miracles
and iScience; the Spirit! and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Sims; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatoiogy; the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. od.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens- these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by triiich these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent mid little, understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Yols. 2?s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of altrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Yala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Alien
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, IQs. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. ,
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
• are included in the work. 12s. ,6d.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARYEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. Cd.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid. ~
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAV EN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
-MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little hook, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Bev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. Cd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Cd.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. Cs.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
5s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O, Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By C. M. Burnett,. M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Fanner, 1766. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Cd.) 4s.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. -James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BI ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The I Poughkeepsie Seei\"
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. „ IL ,,
The Seer. „ III, „
The Reformer. „ IV. ... »
The Thinker. ,, V „ . •
Magic Staff. An Autobiography oi A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land i
Arabula, or Divine Guest
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the Peop.e
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life . . .
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence ,
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures
s. d.
15 0
7 6
7 6
7 6
7 0
. 7 6
. 7 6
3 fi
7 6
3 6
7 6
3 6
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
t. d.
24 O
6 0
18 0
12 6
15 0
7 6
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ....
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel)
History of American Socialisms i(Noyes) .
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) .
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ....
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China ito India (400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A., Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales,8 Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts .16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge.D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 6 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D.,'LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .20
The Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Pam, B.A. . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . \ . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , : 10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “ There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning, fid.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr E T.
Hallock. 2s.
IV
THE SPIBITUALIST,
Feb. 23, 1877.
Lately published, in two volumes, 8vo, cloth, price 28s,
A PHILOSOPHICAL TREATISE on the
NATUBE and CONSTITUTION of MAN. By G-eobge
G. Harris, LL.D., F.S.A., Barrister-at-law, Vice-President of
the Psychological Society, and of the Anthropological Institute
and Author Of “The Theory of the Arts,’’ “Civilisation con¬
sidered as a Science,” &c.
This work embraces a comprehensive and complete survey
of the nature and constitution of man, physical, moral, and
intellectual, exhibiting, moreover, the mutual connection and
dependence of each branch. Topics connected with the
spiritual being, and the leading opinions on this subject,
including the nature, essence, properties, and mode of opera¬
tion of the spul; the alliance between matter and spirit;
reason and instinct, their affinity and diversity, more espe¬
cially, are here discussed; and a new theory is propounded of
our intellectual system, as also respecting the distribution,
mode of action,, discipline, and cultivation of the mental
faculties. -
Eminent authorities on certain of the subjects here embraced,
n mong them some distinguished writers on psychology, physio¬
logy and natural history, foreign as well as English, have been
in correspondence with, and have been consulted by the
author, by several of whom valuable notes, which will be read
with much interest, on various and important controverted
points, have been contributed.
“ The writer who undertakes a work like this, requires at
once' a comprehensive intellect, a widespread reading and
experience,' an unprejudiced mind, and almost superhuman
industry. All these qualities appear to be combined in Mr.
Harris.”—Westminster Review.
. “A treatise so ambitious and comprehensive in subject and
scope, demands great natural powers, immense research,
patient meditation, and assimilation of the labours of others
Ail these requisites Mr. Harris brings to his task. His work
proves that a searching inquiry into man’s nature is alike
independent of two extremes, the negation of Atheism, and
theological.intolerance. A perusal will lead every man of
faith to inquire more, and every man of science to believe
more-.—Hour.
“ This work is one of considerable value, and of deep interest.
Indeed, it is somewhat difficult to lay it down when you have
once become absorbed by its contents. We moreover venture
to assert that it is impossible to read a single chapter of the
book without being struck with the vast array of authorities,
ancient and modem, that have been read or consulted, the
wide and varied information sought or obtained, and the
original thought displayed in dealing with its deeply interesting
and abstruse objects of research.”—John Bull.
“Dr. Harris has evidently read the writings of both ancient
and modern anthropologists and philosophers with care; and
the work will always be valuable as indicative of deep re¬
search, and a sound, though diffuse, method of treating the
Subject. Every quality and style ‘of thought are represented
by the gentlemen who have contributed to the notes, which
range from the thoughs of Mr. Gladstone and Dr. Newman to
those of Sir John Lubbock.”—Public Opinion.
“ This is a most elaborate and learned production, and
testifies on the part of its author his immense research and
great ingenuity. It is, without the name, an Encyclopaedia
of man. Dr. Harris’s work is very valuable as a great collec
tion of facts, most of them thoroughly sifted by himself, and
many of them' having been subjected to the correction of
acknowledged authorities.”—Dundee Advertiser
“ The present work is the first attempt of the kind; and Dr.
Harris deserves praise for the origin and completion of his
most laborious performance. In these frivolous days, such
books and such authors are rare. Altogether, it is a produc¬
tion highly creditable to the intelligence and industry of the
author, and. one which no one interested in the subject on
which he writes can read without profit.”—-Lifemry World.
“ We have probably quoted enough from this very thought¬
ful and suggestive work to induce the many members of the
Institute who are interested in the psychological treatment of
tbe question, to seek pleasure and instruction in its pages.
Added value is given to it by the interesting circumstance
that the proof sheets of several portions were submitted to
learned friends of the author—such as Sir John Lubbock, Dr.
Itichardson, Dr. Newman, and many others—and have been
enriched by their comments.”—Journal of the Anthropological
nstitute.'
London: George Bell & Sons, York-street, Covent-garden.
By Royal Letters Patent
U KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PEOMOTES THE GBOWTH OP THE HAIE, AND
IMPABTS TO IT A HEALTHY BEILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
EESTOEES TO GEEY HAIB ITS OBIGINAL COLOUB.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
' This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “ KBINE COSMETIC ” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
Other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Betail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. John Bouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
Published at 7s. 6d. Beduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, also illustrative- instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
fa cts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Boyal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Paris, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences; awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Bugby. that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about ammal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
One as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. 6d. Beduced in price to 4s,
Inland Postage’4d. Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
SPIRIT PEOPLE. •
: A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HAEBISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id,
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs, Colby and Bich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions op the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of d priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions, we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising Or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
I Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has'brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of . mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Bussell Street, London, W.C.
\ NNALI HELLO SPIRITI8MO IN ITALIA.
—Bivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
REFLEXIONEN aus her geisteh-
WELT. A Monthly Becord of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda -
Pesth: Josefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexander Gasse. London:
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations.
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the marmestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is 'under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations ? ” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change seats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody present, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST ” SUBSCRIPTION FUND.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION FOB 1877 AND 1878.
£ s, d.
Le Comte de Bullet    50 0 0
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.     20 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq  20 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq,   15 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq.     10 0 0
Alexander Oalder, Esq    10 0 0
N. F. Dawe, Esq.    10 0 0
G. C. Joad, Esq    10 0 0
The Hon. A. Aksakof   10 0 0
Algernon Joy, Esq., M.Inst.O.E.    10 0 0
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D    10 Q 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart    10 0 0
M. B. 1  10 0 0
C. O. Massey; Esq ‘ io 0 0
James Mylne, Esq  10 0 0
B    6 6 0
T. E. Partridge, Esq   ;  5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq   5 0 0
The Countess of Caithness  5 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun    5 0 0
Mrs. E. Dixon     2 2 0
The Bev. W. Whitear   2 2 0
Dr. Baikie        2 2 0
Miss Whitear   2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., M.B.1  2 2 0
Mrs. Lowe    2 2 0
S.J.H  2 2 0
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S  2 2 0
W. C. Pickersgill, Esq.  2 0 0
W.     2 0 0
G.Y      2 0 0
S. T. Speer, Esq., .M.D  2 0 0
W. M. Buchanan, Esq., M.D  2 0 0
A:-Yacher, Esq  2 0 0
. Colonel Olcoit..  2 0 0
The Baroness von Vay    1 10 0
George Lee, Esq    110
G. R. Tapp, Esq  110
Mrs. Maltby    110
B. W. Pycock, Esq  110
Mrs. Nosworthy  i 1 o
G. T. Hook, Esq     110
Major Menars     i i o
A. Glendinning, Esq    110
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S';   110
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.Tel.E  110
Mrs. Hennings   110
Dr. George Wyld  it    110
Miss Allen    1 i_ o
W. P. Adshead, Esq * 110
John Mould, Esq  110
J. P. Turner, Esq.     1 1 o
J. T. Dodd, Esq    110
Mrs. Jeffreys   ...;  110
Miss Douglas      10 0
Jofin Scott, Esq;    10 0
J, C. Ferguson, Esq      10 0
A. C. Swinton, Esq  10 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   1 o 0
Mrs. Tyndall     1 o 0
Lieut.-Col. Jacoby  10 0
G. F. Green, Esq  0 10 6
J. Hare, Esq   0 10 0
A Friend     o 10 0
A Friend   o 10 0
Miss Pearce    0 5 0
J. T. M     0 5 0
Subscriptions to this Fund should be remitted to W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
PSYCHISCHE STUDIEN. AMonthly Journal
devoted to the investigation of the unexplained pheno¬
mena of psychic life. Edited by Alexandre Aksakof, and
contributed to by several German and foreign men of science.
Price Is. monthly—Leipsic: Oswald Mutze. London: The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branefi Office.
Price 7s. 6d., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the. rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : Colby and Rich. London Spirit¬
ualist Office.
®jr,e Spntalist
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisemenis Five
Shillings per inch. Beduced terms for extended periods.
“The Spiritualist" is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London: and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the; first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address tgithin the United Kingdom on receipt of the
animal subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen’s, 1, Ave Maria-lane, London,
E.C. 
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn,
in tbe Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allen, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
