EEGIoTHPvED as a XF.'WSPAPE?, ]
THE “ SPIRITUALIST ” is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : ix, Ave Maria-Iane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS : Kiosque, 846, Boule¬
vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: The International
Library, 346 and 347, Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont.
BUDA-PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-strect. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly 8c. Co. NEW YORK:
24, East Fourth-street. BOSTON, U.S.: g, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO: “ Religio-Philosophical Journal” Office. MEMPHIS,
U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street.
JSTo. 220. (Vol. IX.—No. 15.) LONDON : FEiIDA.Yj NOVEMBER 10j 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
foments.
University Education 189
The National Association of Spiritualists:—The Opening
of the Winter Meetings—The Present Aspects of
Spiritualism—The Higher Teachings of Spiritualism
—Metaphysical Conclusions Confirmed by Spiritual
Phenomena—An Esoteric and an Exoteric Spiritualism
—Personation on the Part of Low-Sphere Spirits—An
Evidence of Spirit Identity—The Present Position of
Spiritualists in Relation to the Public—The Present
Position of Public Mediums—Manifestations Not Ob¬
tainable at Will—Testing Physical Mediums — The
Discussion: What is Religion ?—The Mingling of Indi¬
vidualities—Materialistic Intolerance—Is it Desirable
to Convert Physicists?—The Evidence Required by
Materialists    ... ...  170
Paid Mediums    174
The Slade Prosecution   175
Spiritualists' Defence Fund...    ... 175
An Efficient and Inexpensive Step   175
Powerful Manifestations in Manchester. By Christian
Reimers   ;.. 176
The Psychological Society of Great Britain:—Mr. Serjeant
Cox’s Presidential Address—The Persecution of Dr.
Slade—Opposition to New Scientific Truths—The Pro¬
vince of Psychology—Professorial Inquisitors—Ma¬
terialistic Dogmatism—The Natural Enemies of
Spirituality—The Demanded Reversal of Scientific
Methods—On Professors who Demand that the Laws
of Nature shall Change for their Satisfaction—Experi¬
ments in Vivisection—The Collection of Psychological
Facts—Psychology at the British Association—The
Attack upon Dr. Slade—Truth will not Prevail by its
own Force—The Discussion—Unconscious Preposses¬
sion—Shall Priests be Prosecuted under the Vagrancy
Act?—Paid Mediums—The Constitution of the Ex¬
perimental Committee       177
Turkish Atrocities:—Appeal to Spiritualists 180
Paragraphs:—Mr. J. J. Morse’s Provincial Labours, 169;
“Vivisection Extraordinary,’’ 175; Spiritualism in
Liverpool, 180; Dr. Monck...   180
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
XSTABLISHBD IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
J- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual-
Uts in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions m its columns are Mr. O. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes. F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement of Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden): the Right Hon. the Countess of
Caithness; His Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson. F.G.S.Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owenl(formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court .of Portugal; Mr. 0. C. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr, George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld ; Mr. T P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer--
man (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent! (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edm.);
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn ; Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Gxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe; Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the "Life of Swedenborg”); Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. O.
Maurice Davies. D.D., author of “ Unorthodox London ”; Mr. S. 0.
Hall, F.8.A.; Mr. H. D. Jenckcn, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D.vH. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisliug-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United,Kingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, 4 dels. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-placo,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to W. H. Harrison,
Spiiutualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.O.
PRIZE ESSAYS.—BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.—The Prize Es¬
says on the Probable Effect of Spiritualism on the Social, Moral,
and Religious Condition of Society are now on sale, and may
be obtained at the Booms of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, and of Mr, E. W. Allen, 11, Avo Maria lane, price Is.,
post, ls.l£d.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
(Entrance in Woburn Street.)
Agenda for November, 1876.
Wednesday, 1st.—Soiree at 38. Great Russell Street, at
6.30 p.m. Music, Conversation and Refresh¬
ments. Open to members and friends.
Admission, Is.
Friday, 3rd.—Seance Committee at 6 p m.
„ Experimental Research Committee, at 6,30
p.m.
Monday, 6<A—Discussion Meeting at 7.30 p.m. Admis¬
sion free to members and friends.
Friday, lOfA.—Experimental Research Committee, at G.80
p.m.
Tuesday, 14<A—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
„ Finance Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Council Meeting at 6 30 p.m.
Wednesday, VSth.—Mr Blackburn’s Seance, Mr. Williams,
medium, at 7.30 p m.
Friday, 17th.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 20th.—House and Offices Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Soiree Committee at 6.30 p.m.
„ Discussion Meeting at 7.30 p.m.
Thursday, 23rd.—Mr. Blackburn’s Seance, Mr. W. Eglinton,
medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Friday, 24th.—Library Committee, at 6 p.m.
„ Experimental Research Committee, at 6.36
p.m.
Thursday, 30th.—Sir. Blackburn’s Seance. Mr. W. Eglinton,
medium, at 7.30 p.m.
Mr. Blackburn’s Seances are free to inquirers, who must be
recommended by a member, or apply personally to the Secre¬
tary. As there is a great demand for tickets, and the numbers
are strictly limited, it is necessary to apply some time in
advance.
PRIZE ESSAYS OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
In the year 1875, through the liberality of two members of
its body, the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists was enabled to offer two prizes, the first consisting
of a gold medal or £20; the second of £10, for the best and
second best essays on a selected subject, which was—“The
Probable Effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral and
Religious Condition of Society-”
The conditions were that the competition should be open to
all British born or naturalised British subjects, and further to
all foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists, provided the essays were written in English.
The following gentlemen were kind enough to consent to
adjudicate upon the merits of the competing essays:—Mr.
Alfred Russel Wallace, the well-known naturalist and F.R.G.S.;
a gentleman known to a large circle under the nom deplume of
M. A., Oxon.; Mr. J. ML Gully, M.D., and Mr. Martin R. Smith.
Of the essays sent in, the two which have been printed were
selected by the judges as worthy of the first and second prizes
respectively, by reason of their logical and literary merits; hut
the Council of the Association, though it has undertaken their
publication, holds itself free from all responsibility for the
views of the writers.
The first essay, by Miss Anna Blackwell, is in course of
translation into the French, Spanish, German, and Italian lan¬
guages.
Can be ordered of Mr. W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Sussell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C. Price Is. IJd., post free.
Now Ready.
STRAY THOUGHTS ON MANY THEMES.
A Selection from J. T. Markley’s Poems, originally con¬
tributed to the Nottingham Daily Journal, the Newcastle Critic,
the New York Christian Leader, the Peterborough Advertiser, and
other high-class publications. Post free, 18 stamps; from the
Author, 3, Crawthora-street, Peterboruogh
T IBERTY HALL, 19, Church-street, Isling-
JLi ton. Weekly Seances, dtc.: Sundays, Healing, at 11 a.m.,
Service at 7 p.m. Tuesday, Stance at 8 p.m.; is. Friday, Seance at
8 p.m.; non-subscribers, Is. Saturday, Development Class at
3 p.m.; subscribers only
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. This
Library is opened Free by G. Sadler, Spiritualist, for the loan
of hooks, and having placed for this purpose the whole of his
private library, consisting of 100 hooks and pamphlets to
commence with, he would thank friends to assist him by the
gift or loan of hooks, assuring them that such are needed in
Cardiff, where the popu'ation is nearly 80,000, and very little
is known of the gieat truths of Spiritualism. Address, G.
Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A GENERAL CONFERENCE OF SPIRITUALISTS
WILL BE HELD IN LONDON, AT
38, GREAT RUSSELL, STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
On the 7th, 8th, and 9th of Febvary, 1877.
The following subjects are offered as suggestions for papers,
but essays on kindred subjects will also be received:—
1. The Best Tests of the Genuineness of Physical Phenomena .
2. The Scientific Aspects of Spiritualism.
3. Has Spiritualism given any New Truths to the World ?
4. The Evidences of the Identity of Communicating Spirits.
5. The Relation of the Law to Public Mediums.
6. The Aims, Ends, and Uses of Modern Spiritualism.
7. The Best Means of Directing Attention to the Importance
of the Private Investigation of Spiritualism.
8. Spiritualism as a Religions Influence.
All papers to he sent to the Secretary, 38. Great Russell-
streot, Bloomsbury, not later than January 20th, 1877; the
papers to remain the property of the Association, subject to
the conditions laid down in rule 37.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-huildings, Chancery-lane, W.O.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold, and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had bn application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCEOFT, Manager.
 c 
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination has been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, hut also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of a priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his-
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.''—Public Opinion.
“At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turning and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention ihan the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are bound to acknowledge that j
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, norattemits to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he be¬
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged his task is praise¬
worthy ; but what of the* task itself ? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit vsorld, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—BomM Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Brice Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 88, Great Russell Street, London, W.O.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
J3RITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Calder, Esq., 1, Hereford-sqtiare, WestBrompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-vlllas, upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-liill, Balham. S.W.
Hltchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool. i
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Rogers, E. D., Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.W
Smith, Martin R., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman,M.D.,Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road, South Hampstead, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-bulldings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa. 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Richmond Hill.
Binney, F A., 22, St. Ann’s-square. Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., Nightingale Hall, Richmond Hill.
Cook, Mrs. K., Nightingale Hall, Richraond-hill.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 1, Cornwall Residences, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7. Oberstein-road. New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fltton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Hook, C. T„ Snodlands, Rochester.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 8, West-end, Doddingtou-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Scymour-street, W,
Joy, Algernon^M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mansell, F. W., The Hawthorns, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Massey, C. C., Barrlster-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C,
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E. .
Morse, J. J. Warwiok-cottage, Gld Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Newbould, Rev. W. W., 118, Albany-street, Regent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Reimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Rogers, Mrs.E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-
roaa, S E,
Strawbndge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Redcliffe-gardens, South Ken¬
sington, I.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill. Upper Norwood, r
Stock, St. George W., M.A., St. Paul’s College, Stony Stratford.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-parkJBlackheath, S.E.
Tredwen, R. Pomeroy, 40,'C)averton-street, Pimlico, S. vY.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vale, W.
Wedgwood, Hensieigh, 81, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Poste Restante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H„ 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heatblands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr, J, H. Andre. Mr. H. Cook. Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Ills Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de TEmpereur Russie, Yevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Eassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a BahdjdCapoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Yay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
El Visconde ds Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan.New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Roi de Rome, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea. East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge-Britien, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmllian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria. Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse 2b, Letpsic, Germany.’
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
11. T. Child, Esq.,M.D., 684, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., MD.,196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavalroz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. H. Gledstanes,Esq., 5,Rue de la Terrasse, Paris.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2, Rue de Rocroi. Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee. U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Antheime Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, Cayuga Co..New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte de Bullet, Hotel de TAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris,
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 80, Upper Gioucester-place,Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhui, Waitzner Boulevard, 67, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-straske, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Rue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary— George Browne,
Esq., 63, Newlands-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite etMagnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. O. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff.
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid, Presi¬
dent—El Visconde de Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad;Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana President—
Senor Refugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for Midsummer, 1876,
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. John Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. George Browne, 42, Eastlake-street, Everton.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock.
Trustees.—Mr. James Wason, Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John
Chapman.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs.
Ainsworth, Miss Hilton, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. Richard Nos¬
worthy, Mr. Vaughan, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Meredith, and
Mr. John Priest.
Auditors.—Mr. H. J. Charlton, and Mr. Vaughan.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
July, 187.6.
STRANGE YISITORS.—A series of original
papers, embracing Philosophy, Science, Government,
Religion, Poetry, Art, Fiction, Satire, Humour, Narrative, and
Prophecy, by the spirits of Irving, Willis, Thackeray, Byron,
Brontd, Richter, Hawthorne, Wesley, Humboldt, Browning,
and others. These wonderful articles were dictated through
a Clairvoyant, while in a trance state, and are of the most
intensely interesting and enthralling nature. Cloth, 6s.
Colby and Rich, Boston, U.S., and Spiritualist newspaper
branch office.
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the cause of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen year’s.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row.
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a delightful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISE EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simpkin, Marshall <fc Co.
JAMES MALTBY,
ARMY TAILOR AND ACCOUTREMENT MAKER
TO HER MAJESTY’S
MILITARY AND NAYAL FORCES,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK
LONDON, N.W.
MRS. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“Grannie’s Nursery Rhyms Book” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &c., will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie”
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable. Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tayistock-square, W.C.
Nov. 10, 1876.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.O.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
SPIRITUAL HEALING.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
the above on Mondays, 11 a.m. Treatment by clair¬
voyant. Prescribing and spirit mesmerism. Many have been
cured or relieved. Testimonials may be seen. Test medium-
ship by trance and writing. Development and other phases as
usual. Public Seances at 7 p.m. Tuesdays, and 3 p.m. Fridays.
Admission, 2s. 6d. Private consultations should be previously
arranged, but Mrs. Olive is generally at home from 1 to 4 p.m.
15, Ainger-terrace, King Henry’s-road, N.W. (close to Chalk
Farm Station).
MR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
*RS. BURKE is about to hold PUBLIC
SEANCES at her Boarding House for Spiritualists every
Friday evening at 8 o’clock; to commence on Friday, tno 15th
inst. E. W. Wallis, medium for trance communications. Other
seances are in process of arrangement. Fee, 2s. 6d.
A seance for refined physical manifestations, with a first-class
medium, will be held on the Wednesday evenings of each
week, for a few weeks only. Fee 5s.
M
Paris.
DLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honord,
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold Or Who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great Russell-street, London
W.O. Price Id.; post free for lid.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
Good chambers or furnished
APARTMENTS to LET. Apply to Miss S., 44, Jer-
myn-street, Piccadilly, London.
TO LET, FURNISHED, a Pretty Semi¬
detached Villa, with drawing, dining, and fine bedrooms
and dressing-room, kitchen, scullery, beer-closet, and pantry;
water up and down stairs; bed and table linen and plate. 6i
guineas a week for four months. References given and re¬
quired. A. B., Post-office, Sandown, Isle of Wight
Furnished apartments to let,
. consisting of pleasant Sitting Room and Large Airy
Bedroom, overlooking and having access to large garden.
Thorough cleanliness, and home comforts studied. Near to
Rail and Qmnibns.. C. P., 102, Clarendon-road, Notting hill, W.
TAKEN AWAY BY MISTAKE from the
Ladies’ Cloak Room, at 38, Great Russell-street, on
Wednesday Eveniog, October 4th, a DOUBLE-GLASS SMEL¬
LING-BOTTLE, with Gilt Stoppers, much valued by the
Owner. If found, it is requested that the same may be left in
charge of the Secretary, at the Reading Room, 38, Great
Russell-street
THE FOOD QUESTION. — Manifesto and
Publications of the Vegetarian Society sent free to any
address on receipt of post card. Secretary, 91, Oxford-street,
Manchester.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
Spiritualism in the bible identi-
. CAL WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. Price 2d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane. E.O.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.O.; F. J. Theobald,
13, St. John’s-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psycho-
logiqnes, fondb par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Pnblished by the Sociiti
Anonyme, 7. Rue de Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-message department; contributions by the meet talented
writers in the world, bo., bo. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
THE DEBATABLE LAND BETWEEN THIS
WORLD AND THE NEXT. By Robert Dale Owen.
The main object of this book is to afford conclusive proof,
aside from historical evidence, of immortality. It shows that
we of to-day have the same evidence on that subject as the
apostles had. More than half the volume consists of narra¬
tives in proof of this—narratives that will seem incredible at
first sight to many, yet which are sustained by evidence as
strong as that which daily determines, in our courts of law,
the life and death of men. This book affirms thatthestrongest
of all historical evidences for modern Spiritualism are found
in the Gospels, and that the strongest of all proof going to
substantiate the Gospel narratives are found In the phenomena
of Spiritualism. Cloth, 7s. 6d.
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
% ol % uf % mib Jtiffitp uf ^piijtiimKsm,
Volume Kij^e. Number Fifteen
LONDON, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10th, 1876.
UNIVERSITY EDUCATION.
At this time of year, when young men begin to flock to
the Universities to have “ knowledge put into them,” their
exuberant spirits are sometimes vented in ways which the
students themselves will in future years regard with regret,
and which should not be too critically or harshly regarded.
The following paragraph, from the Scotsman of Nov. 2nd,
describes the reception given last week at Edinburgh Uni¬
versity to Professor Blackie by those who attended for the
professed purpose of learning something from him about
Greek:—
There was a large attendance. Before the appearance of Professor
Blackie the students indulged in whistling, rapping the benches with
sticks, and tramping with their feet. The Professor, on entering the
room, was greeted with cheering, hissing, and howling, which lasted for
a minute or two. On silence being obtained, the Professor said he
hoped the students would remember the compliment which was paid to
him on Tuesday by the Principal. (Cheers, tramping, and interruption.)
If that noise were made again, he should stop his lecture and request the
students to put out the person or persons who were causing the dis¬
turbance. (Hisses, “ hear, hear,” and noise.) Professor Blackie
thereupon resumed his seat, and said that, in his position, he could not
tolerate the impertinence of one or two poor insignificant creatures—
(laughter)—he should, therefore, give the other students three minutes
to expel the offenders from the room; and if those persons were not put
out he should give no lecture. (“Oh, oh,” hisses, and noise.) The
Professor afterwards intimated the lesson for the opening work of the j
class on the following day; an announcement which was followed by
hisses, tramping of feet, and cat-calls. After a pause, during which
none of the students seemed disposed to give effect to the request which
had been made, the Professor said they should not allow themselves to
be made fools of. (“ Tut-tut,” and interruption.) He then dismissed
the class, and intimated that he should enrol students in the adjoining
room. There seemed, he remarked before leaving the platform, no
inclination on the part of the students to purge themselves of one or two
poor insignificant creatures—(hisses)—who should not be allowed to
enter the class-room. (“ Oh, oh,” whistling, beating of sticks, and other
noises, amid which the students gradually dispersed.)
The next paragraph selected for quotation is from the
Standard of Saturday evening last, and relates to the under¬
graduates’ club known as the <£ Oxford Union —
At the weekly meeting of the Oxford Union Society, Mr. C. Wade, of
Magdalen, introduced the following motion:—“ That Spiritualism is
an imposture, and demands legal suppression.” The following amend¬
ment was proposed by Mr. Paulton, of Jesus :—“ That this house, con¬
sidering Spiritualism as an imposture, looks upon the spread of scientific
teaching as the only efficacious method of eliminating its degenerating
effect.” The amendment was lost, 20 voting for and 41 against it.—
Mr. Hoyles, Christ Church, then moved another amendment, as fol¬
lows :—“ That in the opinion of this house the phenomena adduced by
Mr. Crookes demand further investigation.” This amendment was also
lost, 37 voting against and 23 for it. The house then divided on the
original motion, which was carried by 22, the numbers being—for, 45;
against, 23.
The authorities of the University are not responsible for
the utterances of the Oxford Union.
The amendment relating to the necessity for the promul¬
gation of a knowledge of science deserves special support,
because Spiritualists are agreed that the general reception of
the facts of psychology rests entirely upon the prevalence
of a higher order of education and of acquaintance with
scientific methods, than exists in the nation at present. Un¬
fortunately Oxford cannot give that scientific education.
The imperfect facilities provided there for students
of science, as compared with those conferred upon
undergraduates who devote themselves to classics, is a
matter of general complaint. The Royal Commission
appointed to deal with scientific education has given
special attention to the great deficiencies connected with
the teaching of science at Oxford University. Mr. Farrar,
of Harrow School, called the attention of the Royal Insti¬
tution to the same fact in one of his lectures, and told how
young men are turned out of our schools and universities
more or less (generally “ less”) perfectly educated in the
languages of dead and buried Pagans, consequently that
they enter the world armed with the weapons of a
gladiator of old, to do battle with all the powers of modern
artillery. One of the results which he did not men¬
tion is, that many a University man is now starving^
in genteel respectability in London, glad of the smallest
increment of work in the shape of odd jobs on the
newspapers, when the regular staff of any one of them has
too much business upon its hands. Oxford has improved a
little of late in its attitude to science; it has not done much,
it is true, but the few steps it has taken have been good.
The new physical laboratory in the museum is of perfect con¬
struction, although as yet parsimoniously half-stocked with
apparatus, and the students could not have better teachers in
certain special subjects than Professor Clifton and Dr. Odling.
Besides, have they not Professor Lankester, the most cele¬
brated man of the day, the honour and the glory of Oxford
University ? Let all haste be made to elect him president of
the Oxford union.
An essential difference between Oxford University and the
British National Association of Spiritualists is this, that
the former has retarded and gazed coldly upon all attempts
to introduce science into its midst, whilst the latter has wel¬
comed all such attempts; it has appointed a scientific
research Committee, has given rooms for the purposes of
that committee, and, without any pressure from outside,
pushes on original technical inquiry as fast as means and the
temporary press of other duties will permit. Original research
is a far higher order of scientific investigation than is likely
to be established during the present generation at Oxford,
where facilities are required—but not yet liberally given—for
the mere instruction of students in that which is already
known. Advanced philosophers are the men who alone are
expected to occupy themselves with original research.
When Oxford begins to act upon the same principle as the
National Association of Spiritualists, it may hope to rise to
the level of Cambridge, and to be able to lay claim to such
men as Sir William Thomson, Professor Stokes, and Pro¬
fessor Clerk Maxwell, whose discoveries are appreciated, and
whose utterances are eagerly perused by the brightest minds
in intellectual Germany.
Here then, in all friendliness, is there agreement as to the
necessity for better scientific education ; moreover, within the
past few months a Government Commission has officially
recorded that this want is specially observable at Oxford
University. The circumstance that the undergraduates
themselves now begin to see the advantage of having such
an education, ought not to escape the notice of Mr. Nprman
Lockyer and his colleagues, who desire to abolish the defi¬
ciencies connected with scientific education which are so pro¬
minently characteristic of the University at Oxford.
Many communications are kept over, for want of space this wedk.
Mr. Serjeant Cox announced in his presidential address to the
Psychological Society that Professor Lankester is a prominent advocate
of vivisection. Yivisectionists are people who constantly complain of
attempts to settle scientific questions by the rough hands of the law and
police.
Mr. J. J. Morse’s Provincial Labours.—On Sunday last, November
5th, Mr. J. - J. Morse delivered two inspirational lectures in the old
i Preemasons’ Hall, Newcastle-on-Tyne. The one in the afternoon, “For ,
What is Life ?” was well attended, and listened to with close attention;
I Mr. J. Hare presided. In the evening the hall was crowded, and ihe ad¬
dress, “ The Coming God,” was pronounced by the chairman, Mr. T. P.
Barkas, F.G.S., as “ most eloquent and excellent” Mr. Morse also de-
| livered another lecture, in the same Hall, on the following evening (Mon-
I day), and attended a conversazione on Wednesday evening. On Monday
j next he will deliver two lectures in Meyerbeer Hall, Hardman-street,
! Liverpool, afternoon at 3, evening at 7. His other engagements are:—
Glasgow, November 19th; Halifax, November 26th; Newcastle-on- >
Tyne, December 23rd; Oldham, December 10th; Manchester, December
17th ; London, December 24th and 31st. All letters to be directed to Mr.
j Morse, at Warwick Cottage, 518, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
170
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 10, 1876.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
THE OPENING OF THE WINTER MEETINGS. ,
On Monday evening last, the first of the 1876-7 series of the fort- (j
nightly winter meetings of the National Association of Spiritualists, (i
was held at 38, Great Russell-street, London. There was a full attend- i
ance, every seat being occupied. (j
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, M.S.Tel.E., Chairman of the Scientific j
Research Committee of the National Association of Spiritualists, then |j
read the following paper:— (j
THE PRESENT ASPECTS OF SPIRITUALISM. (I
In opening the fortnightly discussion meetings of members of this ||
Association and their Mends, which it is proposed to hold during the j j
ensuing winter season, I am invited to suggest a subject or subjects for (j
■discussion. Considerable latitude is allowed me; therefore I maybe )l
permitted to glance at what I conceive to be some of the main points in 11
the present aspect of Spiritualism, and. in the present position of (
Spiritualists, which indicate various questions from amongst which one >
or more might be selected for consideration. First, in regard to
THE HIGHER TEACHINGS OF SPIRITUALISM.
Physicists, amongst whom my profession classes me, have sometimes j
been accused of neglecting the higher philosophy and teachings of j
Spiritualism, and—when they investigate at all—of confining their j
attention exclusively to its external phenomena. I may, therefore, take |
this opportunity of stating, in limine, that I, for one, hold that those I
higher teachings of Spiritualism which may be derived inductively from | i
the multitude of verified facts, or alternative conclusions in relation to j j
probable facts, which are available to us—those teachings which are ?j
withdrawn completely from the region either of fancy or of dogmatic ! j
assertion—are of paramount importance to ourselves individually and to I I
all humanity. Spiritualism is not a religion, it never can be a re- i j
ligion of itself; but it may be a part of religion, and in one aspect, j j
it is the exponent of religious truth. If I am asked to sum up the j!|
highest teachings of Spiritualism—so far as I know them—forcibly m
and in the fewest words, I can but use those, more than eighteen l i
centuries old, of a teacher whom, I think, all Spiritualists must j
revere—“Thou shalt love God with all thy heart, and with all thy j
soul, and with all thy mind; and thou shalt love thy neighbour as !
thyself.” But, indeed, our philosophy teaches that we must read this j
injunction altogether otherwise—more correctly and more practically— jj
than it has been read throughout the Christian centuries. Our concep- I j
tions of God must be raised, our minds must grow larger, in order that
we may love Him truly. Our sympathies must be widened, our hearts
must grow larger, before we can truly love our neighbour. The order of
progress towards perfection has been reversed, when man has made a
God in his own image. We are taught rather, whilst striving to recog- j
nise and cultivate what there may be of God in us, to admit in all
humility that He is infinitely above, though not in contradiction to, the
highest conception we can form of a First Cause; if we attempt to !
fathom the physical immensity around us with the eyes of science, ( |
telescopic and microscopic, we are forced to this conclusion. And who J ;
amongst us has not recognised that the spiritual immensity around us |)j
is at least as great ? Partly animal and partly angel, we are microcosms 1 |
contemplating infinity without and infinity within. Amongst our very j j i
kindred, on the one hand, are the savage and the criminal, and on the j | j
other a Socrates, bidding us “adhere to truth, justice, duty, for their !|l
own sakes and for the love of our brother man, heedless of creed or j I
tribe,” or a Goethe exclaiming, 11 Das Weltall ist ein Gedanke Gottes’> |||
—the universe is a Thought of God! Let us endeavour to know our- jl
selves, and we shall hereafter know God. Let us do the present work jj
We find to hand, and fully realise at least that there is nothing more 1}
sacred than truth. “A fact,” as Carlyle says, “ is a divine revelation, j j
and he who acts contrary to it sins against God.” All truth is bar- !(j
monious, all truths confirm one another when read aright. The man )j
who worships what he recognises as a truth, but hates or fears other !(|
truths which may seem opposed to it, is not a truthseeker but a bigot. | j
We must learn to look truth in the face, and to conform ourselves to it, m
instead of ever striving to limit and reduce it to the calibre of our pre- i j j
conceived idea. Thus, coming to the practice of our teachings, there j(|
must be no make-believe, nothing of hollowness in the love for God and | j
man which will raise us up and bear us scatheless through life, through jjj
the change called death, and through all futurity. This must be based | j |
upon no suppressio veri, no suggestio falsi. Before we can be true to ji
God, we must be true to ourselves. We must be frank and bold enough j
to admit, if this be the case, that we could not love a God that loved j(
not us. And thus arises a question which, in the mental history of j{
every human being, must at some time be faced: Is the love of the j
Creator for the created manifested in His observed relations to them ? I j
This question is one that might well be considered from the point of |
view of Spiritualism.
. Neither must we make up an artificial neighbour, and merely love ■
him. Better far to see our neighbour as he is, even at the risk of some- j
times despising him. Only let us understand that we do not despise, and j
we may often find it easy to love that which is very much beneath us, I
or that which we are very much above. The philanthropist does not j
despise the pickpocket; the burglar does. I think our God does j
not despise the most degraded outcast of humanity; and we should
endeavour to judge of things by God’s standard rather than by that set
up through our own self-ignorance, pride, or prejudice. How ready
some of us are to condemn, even when condemnation has already been
meted out to the full. A case in point occurs to me. Soon after the
murderer Wainwright had passed through his long agony of expiation
on earth, I heard the kindly communication which was addressed to !
him by the witness Stokes referred to, at a meeting of the Psychological S
Society, as “ a most contemptible letter, asking the forgiveness of the |
infamous criminal whom his evidence brought to the gallows." Now it (
is easy to imagine similar words coming from the lips of Wainwright
himself, when prosperous and surrounded by esteem. If we have any
difficulty in doing so, it is from the fact of a certain element of
generosity—the soil in which he seems to have raised a little crop of
love, which followed him to a dishonoured grave—being observable in
the man’s character. Let us be kind to those who have fallen and
suffered. Spiritualism teaches that in helping and raising them we help
and raise ourselves.
METAPHYSICAL CONCLUSIONS CONFIRMED BY SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA.
In connection with the higher teachings of Spiritualism, as opposed
to materialism, the splendid generalisation—propounded by Behmn, and
suggested by the conclusions of Berkeley—according to which all things
may be regarded as being essentially modes of spiritual energy or Will,
is, I think, of great interest. To those who, like myself, have witnessed
the stupendous phenomenon of successive materialisations and dema¬
terialisations of visible form, by spiritual agency, the question suggests
itself whether Spiritualism is not actually in a position to confirm and
assimilate this metaphysical view.
AN ESOTERIC AND AN EXOTERIC SPIRITUALISM.
Spiritualism has developed in two tolerably distinct branches, which
may be termed esoteric and exoteric Spiritualism. It is generally the
latter only, with its professional mediums, trustworthy or the contrary,
and its almost invariably physical and often grotesque manifestations,
that, is ever heard of by the outside public. Here certain beings,
spiritual or psychical, not unfrequently of a low or doubtful order,
sometimes untruthful and tricky, and undoubtedly fewer in number
than the individualities they represent, enter our earth sphere—in some
cases, it would seem, for their own amusement or gratification, but also
to convince men of the reality of their mode of being, by such tests as
they can devise or adopt. It is a question with some whether we should
welcome those messengers from the spirit-world who are themselves so
akin to earth. But it must be remembered that in the natural order of
things, they would be the first to make their presence known, that the
proofs they bring are adapted to the great majority of recipients, and
that upon them we must probably be almost wholly dependent for any
physical test we can offer to the sceptic. I need not dwell further on
this question at the present time.
The other branch of Spiritualism is confined to the home circle: it is
sacred; outsiders seldom hear its secrets. Here loved and loving ones,
who have been parted by death, speak to each other, as in faint whispers,
across a chasm which divides, but cannot isolate, those who have passed
to a higher phase of being from their kindred yet upon earth. Here the
abiding conviction of the true Spiritualist is mostly obtained. Physical
phenomena of the most striking character sometimes occur at these
fireside seances; but they are not here so much sought after, the ordi¬
nary communications being frequently of intense and sufficient interest,
and they constitute, therefore, the exception rather than the rule.
Experience tends to prove that it is not always desirable to seek for
those phenomena which are most readily produced by spirits of a lower
sphere than those who ordinarily communicate. The two branches of
which I have spoken are not so distinct that they may not sometimes
blend together,
PERSONATION ON THE PART OF LOW-SPHERE SPIRITS.
Certain questions in relation to personation on the part of spirits
communicating at home circles have become of painful interest to a
large class of Spiritualists. The home or fireside circle is, to my mind,
the greatest institution in Spiritualism, although many Spiritualists, I
know, have doubts as to the possibility of identifying with certainty the
communicating intelligences. In our own home circle, however, the’
evidence of the identity of these intelligences, seven in number, and,
with one exception, relatives or friends whom I had known in earth life,
became at length perfectly convincing to all the sitters. Not only were
a great many test questions correctly answered, but all the characteristic
ways and expressions of our friends were reproduced. One spirit friend
was appointed guardian of the circle, and a password from him was
required before any communication was accepted. Generally the day
and hour for a stance were appointed beforehand. On very few occa¬
sions, when some little irregularity had occurred, intrusions and per¬
sonations took place; but these were speedily detected, and the circum¬
stances were explained to us. Ultimately, we were obliged to discontinue
our seances, on account of the ill health of the medium, my wife. Our
spiritiriends, however, had found another medium, in the person of a
young relation of my own, who had occasionally been able to join our
circle ; and communications of the greatest interest to several members
of my family were thus continued at another home circle. For a long
time, and until recently, the sitters were undisturbed by anything like
intrusion or personation. Indeed, fresh evidences of identity were sup¬
plied, one of which is so striking, that I will give it special mention
presently.
What I regret to have now to state is that this circle has—for the
present at least—been broken up, by reason of intrusion and per¬
sonation on the part of unknown, and presumably low-sphere intelli¬
gences. Its members, on the other side as well as here, fought hard
against the disturbing influences, but could not avoid the confusion
consequent upon the fact that several alleged A. B.’s and many sou
disant X. Y.’s respectively claimed to be the “ true ” A. B. and the
“ real ” X. Y. I fear that this case—which is amusing only in its
primd facie aspect, and to those not immediately concerned—is but one
out of many. The probable causes, mental or psychical, conducive to
such confusion, the possible means for preventing it, and the general
bearings of the facts themselves, might constitute an interesting subject
i for discussion.
AN EVIDENCE OF SPIRIT IDENTITY.
j Prior to the advent of this confusion—from which, as from all facts,
i useful lessons may at some time be derived—occurred the evidence of
Kov. 10, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST. 171
identity to which I have alluded. One of the sitters was a lady, whose
son—a fine young fellow, overflowing with healthy energy—had recently
gone abroad to commence a career which seemed full of the promise of
success in this life. One day it was announced at the circle that his
• spirit was free ! I pass over the agony of doubt, of suspense, of grief
that a mother may feel, even though she be more or less a Spiritualist.
The news was confirmed by letter, and also by a communication from
what seemed to be himself. What seemed ? yes; but only the certainty
that this was indeed the loved one could bring consolation here. One
of our public mediums was summoned, unwittingly, to a more solemn
seance, perhaps, than he had ever attended. Now, at the stance in
question the first manifestation that happened was that some old tunes
were whistled. Is this an antithesis ? The sounds were soft and
weirdly*sweet; they were in a direction away from the medium, and
occurred whilst he was talking. But many, I know, could not help
laughing at the bare idea of a spirit whistling. Nevertheless there were
two at this seance—a mother and a sister—who were in tears. And I
think that those tears, falling in the darkness, were really happier than
any merriment. For “many a time and oft ” had they heard those old
tunes, those very tones, when their loved one sat beside them in the
long winter evenings, before the lamps were lighted, or in the summer
twilight beneath the trees. . . . But this was not the promised test—he
was to touch them, to place his hand in theirs. You can understand
the longing to make such a recognition doubly sure, certain to them
beyond any doubt or question. The mother was not yet satisfied; she
had silently waited, she was waiting, for her own test—that which was
her secret. He did place his hand in theirs, and the mother knew that
he was indeed her boy ! In years gone by he had hurt his little finger,
which in consequence was slightly deformed. A stranger would not have
noticed it; but the mother knew him by this token. ... I would ask
whether God’s creation is so full of deception that we can reasonably
doubt such evidence as this, when it comes within our personal experi¬
ence. Unfortunately I cannot give you names and other details, the
incident belongs to esoteric Spiritualism.
THE PRESENT POSITION OP SPIRITUALISTS IN RELATION TO THE PUBLIC,
The present position of Spiritualists, individually and as a body,
suggests some questions for inquiry and discussion. We are the depo¬
sitaries of a great truth, surrounded, no doubt, in many directions, with
error and falsehood—a jewel in its earthy matrix, which we have to
guard and preserve for all humanity, till it be polished and set in the
crown of a new civilisation. Most, if not all of us, were sceptics in the
past, many of us determined sceptics, in relation to the facts which
accident, opportunity, or a lengthy and difficult investigation, may have
clearly and experimentally demonstrated to our minds. The accessions
to our ranks are from the class of sceptics, often bitter sceptics, who
have investigated. Our real opponents are merely brother sceptics who
have not investigated ; who have investigated insufficiently ; who are
under the influence of strong preconceived ideas and foregone conclu¬
sions ; or who illustrate Paley’s maxim, that “ contempt before inquiry
is fatal.” We understand them thoroughly, though they cannot yet
understand us. We, who have already experienced the difficulties of
investigation, can see that the difference between us is simply that
between more and less knowledge. We help them so far as our oppor¬
tunities allow; and, one by one, they come over to us. For we have no
dogmas ; and we appeal to experimental facts, capable of repeated veri¬
fication in many directions. Outside the army of intelligent sceptics,
from amongst whom our numbers are continually recruited, is the crowd
of those who are incapable of investigating or examining for themselves,
and who, like sheep, follow in the wake of those whom they are accus¬
tomed to see before them; though, unlike sheep, they have an historical
propensity for throwing mud and stones, when instigated in this direc¬
tion. Of this class there are some with whom we could well dispense
amongst ourselves : they can be of no real utility, even on the
side of truth, until they are raised intellectually. But an enor¬
mous majority of them are, of course, opposed to us. This is
the mountain that Spiritualism has ultimately to move. This is
the class in whose behalf, and yet against whom, the disciples of any
new, or unrecognised truth have in all ages had to struggle. Acting
under those who can sway their prejudices, they are the agents in
every persecution. This class is by no means identical with that
which is commonly, but with doubtful accuracy and propriety, referred
to as the “ lower class,” and which includes the great majority of
workers. The class of those who are incapable of examining for
themselves includes the thoughtless of all grades, and also those very
respectable people whose instincts lead them always to side with what
seems to them the stronger cause. It includes also some generous-
minded people with too strong a regard for authority and precedent, and
for their own preconceived ideas. To the whole of this very helpless
class we are systematically and pertinaciously misrepresented, and
hitherto we have taken but very little trouble to set ourselves right in
their eyes. No doubt we are in a minority; but any individual, even
though not himself remarkable for breadth of view or depth of know¬
ledge, may, generally, without contradiction, refer to us as “a small
band of ignorant fanatics.” Mrs. Grundy, writing a leader for a
Sunday paper, may assert that “no person, of respectability, and cer¬
tainly no lady, would associate with the persons known as Spiritualists,”
and no one takes the trouble to disabuse her as to the matter of fact.
Anyone who has not time or inclination for investigation, may divide us
into the two categories of “ knaves and fools,’’ or speak of recent con¬
verts, of the highest scientific or intellectual standing, as “ men appa¬
rently sane,” and the helpless public straightway doubt our honesty,
capacity, and sanity. Any impudent mountebank may represent that
we are continually deceived by the most clumsy and transparent tricks,
and he is at once enlisted on the side of our opponents, made much of,
and perhaps pronounced by the Times to be “ in such investigations ”
superior to the man of science; whilst the great majority of the public
II remain in perfect ignorance of the facts that no conjurer would ever
| submit to the conditions under which we obtain our phenomena ; that a
| knowledge of the cleverest conjuring tricks has now become a part of
| the education of Spiritualists, and that numbers of our private mediums
are ladies and gentlemen of the highest character and standing. It
may be a question for us to consider whether something should not be
| done—say by means of a plain statement of verifiable facts, drawn up
and signed by a committee of leading Spiritualists, and sown broadcast
amongst the public—to protect them and ourselves against absurd mis-
i representations of our character, position, and aims.
In the meanwhile let us not quail before any storm of misrepresenta¬
tion and unjust ridicule. Even if this should be the commencement of
a persecution in form differing from, but in spirit identical with, those
j which hitherto have heralded the recognition of great truths, let us re-
| member the words of the poet, that
To side with truth is noble when we share her wretched crust,
Ere her cause bring fame and profit, and ’tis prosperous to be just.
Then it is the brave man chooses, while the coward stands aside,
Doubting in his abject spirit, till his Lord is crucified,
And the multitude make virtue of the faith they had denied.
Count me o’er earth’s chosen heroes,—-they were souls that stood alone,
While the men they agonised for hurled the contumelious stone,
Stood serene, and down the future saw the golden beam incline
To the side of perfect justice, mastered by their faith divine,
By one man’s plain truth to manhood and to God’s supreme design.
By the light of burning heretics Christ’s bleeding feet Jf track,
Toiling up new Calvaries ever with the cross that turns not back ;
And these mounts of anguish number how each generation learned,
One new word of that grand Credo which in prophet hearts hath burned,
Since the first man stood, God conquered, with his face to heaven upturned.
For Humanity sweeps onwards; w'here to-day the martyr stands,
On the morrow crouches Judas with the silver in his hands;
Far in front the cross stands ready, and the crackling fagots bum,
While the hooting mob of yesterday, in silent awe return,
To glean up the scattered ashes into History’s golden urn.
Law is holy; ay, but what law ? Is there nothing more divine,
i1 Than the patched-up laws of Parliament, that a stolid king may sign;
| \ Is there, say you, nothing higher ? Nought, God save us, that transcends
I, Laws of cotton texture, wove by vulgar men for vulgar ends ?
!Did our Maker ask their counsel, or submit to them a plan,
Ere he filled with loves, hopes, longings, the aspiring heart of man ?
For their edict does the soul wait, ere it swing round to the pole,
Of the true, the free, the God-willed, all that makes it be a soul.
You think truth a farthing rushlight to be snuffed out when you will,
With your deft and legal fingers, and your politician’s skill.
11 But the destinies think not so, that you grant, but then you say,
( That you differ from them somewhat! Which is stronger, you or they ?
THE PRESENT POSITION OF PUBLIC MEDIUMS.
• The present position of our public mediums, especially those whose
j character and claims have been established by the repeated tests of com-
I petent investigators, demands our earnest and immediate attention, with
■1 a view to the prevention of possible contingencies, which we can regard
j only with unutterable indignation. For we now know it to be possible
that any amongst those peculiarly-constituted men or women who are
[ recognised as “psychics’’ by modern psychology, any amongst those
■I delicate and sensitive organisations through whom we are brought into
Bj contact with modes of being for which we must soon exchange our
Bj present life, may—on the unsupported testimony of obviously prejudiced
B quasi investigators, in whose hands they have unreservedly placed
| themselves—be branded as “rogues and vagabonds,” and subjected to
| j the moral and physical degradation of what is dignified by the term
ij “hard labour,” provided only that they accept optional payment for
their services. To some such organisations such an outrage might be
j worse than death. I think that amidst all our legal fiction and devices
there will be no difficulty in protecting them, whilst conforming to the
letter of a law which cannot long remain unrepealed. If its true intent
! —which we may reasonably doubt—be illustrated by its present action,
we cannot be expected to conform to its spirit t
MANIFESTATIONS NOT OBTAINABLE AT WILL.
| I have now to carry out the original intent of the committee who de¬
puted me to read a paper before you to-night, by suggesting for early
consideration the important question as to the practicability of devising
an absolute test of the abnormal character of the physical phenomena
] which are presented to us in the course of Cur investigations—some test
| that might be absolutely conclusive to any intelligent inquirer, and that
i could be repeated with tolerable certainty under unexceptionable condi-
| tions. In the course of our experience we have perhaps all obtained
| indubitable physical tests of the reality of modes of energy having a
psychic or a spiritual origin. But we know how difficult it is, generally,
to obtain a repetition of such evidences at will. With us, investigation
has, in most cases at least, demanded a very considerable expenditure
of time and patience, and a great number of inconclusive phenomena
have been noted before we could obtain any under perfectly satisfactory
circumstances. But it might be anticipated that one result of our
endeavours would be to smooth the path of future investigators. It is
not for us to quarrel with their requirements if we can by any,possibility
satisfy them. We know how futile it is in these as in other investiga¬
tions, to commence by imposing conditions before we have ascertained
those which happen to be necessary. But having ascertained the neces¬
sary conditions we may beneficially seek to adapt them to the require¬
ments of those who are willing to receive evidence, provided it come
quickly and in a form familiar to them. What these requirements are,
in the case of the physicist, was well explained by the philosopher who
has obtained the widest mastery of the means for wresting from Nature
her secrets—William Crookes, F.R.S.,—at the outset of his most
faithful researches in the phenomena of Spiritualism.
TESTING PHYSICAL MEDIUMS.
The Spiritualist tells of bodies weighing 50 or 100 lbs. being lifted
into the air without the intervention of any known fbree ; but the
172
THE SPIRITUALIST.
scientific chemist is accustomed to use a balance which will render
sensible a weight so small that it would take ten thousand of them to
weigh one grain; he is, therefore, justified in asking that a power, pro¬
fessing to be guided by intelligence, which will toss a heavy body up to
the ceiling, shall also cause his delicately-poised balance to move under
test conditions.
The Spiritualist tells of tapping sounds which are produced in dif¬
ferent parts of a room, when two or more persons sit quietly round a
table. The scientific experimenter is entitled to ask that these taps
shall be produced on the stretched membrane of his phonautograph.
The Spiritualist tells of rooms and houses being shaken, even to
injury, by superhuman power. The man of science merely asks for a
pendulum to be set vibrating when it is in a glass case and supported
on solid masonry.
The Spiritualist tells of heavy articles of furniture moving from one
room to another without human agency. But the man of science has
made instruments which will divide an inch into a million parts; and
he is justified in doubting the accuracy of the former observations, if
the same force is powerless to move the index of his instrument one
poor degree.
The Spiritualist tells of flowers with the fresh dew on them; of fruit
and living objects being carried through closed windows, and even solid
brick-walls. The scientific investigator naturally asks that an addi¬
tional weight (if it be only the 1,000th part of a grain) be deposited on
one pan of his balance when the case is locked. And the chemist asks
for the l,0Q0th part of a grain of arsenic to be carried through the sides
of a glass tube, in which pure water is hermetically sealed.
The Spiritualist tells of manifestations of power, which would be
equivalent to many thousands of “ foot-pounds ” taking place without
known agency. The man of science, believing firmly in the conserva¬
tion of force, and that it is never produced without a corresponding
exhaustion of something to replace it, asks for some such exhibitions of
power to be manifested in his laboratory, where he can weigh, measure,
and submit it to proper tests.
It is to be observed that the tests here enumerated would be not only
inconclusive, but utterly thrown away upon an inquirer ignorant of the
actual extent of the resources of science and art. Such a man would
be infinitely more impressed by an ordinary conjurer’s trick, or by
phenomena which could be readily simulated. We do not purpose
taking any trouble to convince him. He would naturally alternate
between Maskelyne and Cooke and certain soi disant mediums, whose
pretensions have not met with recognition amongst Spiritualists them¬
selves. But the test we require should be adapted to any intelligent
inquirer. Cceteris paribus, the simpler it is the better. There must be
no loophole for any suggestion of trickery that might occur to a suspi¬
cious mind. It must be susceptible, not only of repetition, but of re¬
petition under varying conditions, and of course it must be obtainable
with a medium, or preferably with mediums, readily accessible. I will
illustrate iny meaning by stating that if any cedar pencil that might be
produced could be made, in broad daylight, to stand on end whenever
the medium might place his hand at a distance of one foot from it, on
any surface selected by the inquirer, the test would be eminently satis¬
factory. But I have reason to believe that this particular test could be
obtained only with great difficulty, if at all, through any ordinary
medium. We must try in other directions, some of which will be indi¬
cated in the course of the discussion on this question. Much might be
done probably by suggesting to mediums that they should sit per¬
sistently in order to obtain phenomena, which to them might appear
trivial, but which in reality would afford conclusive evidence of abnor¬
mal power to the intelligent inquirer. It is in truth no easy matter to
devise tests of the character required, and it is one in which well-con¬
sidered suggestions may possibly be of great value to the Research
Committee of this Association.
Thanking you for the kind and patient attention which you have
accorded me, I now leave the various questions for discussion in your
hands, merely observing that, after the example I have set, I am the
only one to blame if “ on this occasion only ” we make up our minds to
be desultory, and that I purpose taking the opinion of the majority as
to the subject to be discussed at our next meeting. (Applause.)
Mr. Fine-Gerald then invited the listeners to speak, and sat down
amid loud and continuous applause.
THE DISCUSSION—WHAT IS KELICUON ?
Mrs. Hallock: You said that Spiritualism is not a religion, and
never can become one. Will you please define the term “ religion ? ”
Mr. Fitz-Gerald: Religion involves a God, and Spiritualism does
not. I have never realised the possibility of communicating with God
more directly through the agency of Spiritualism than without it. I
think that Spiritualism involves two things—the immortality of the
soul, and the possibility of holding communion with those who have
passed away ; but in these facts there is no religion. We should never
worship any spirit who communicated with us, and the spirits speak of
God as vaguely as we do. I think that the idea of a God is innate, and
does not come through Spiritualism.
Mrs. Hallock : I do not exactly agree with you, but I will not dis¬
cuss the point. You spoke of “ esoteric Spiritualism,” but I think
that the term “ private Spiritualism ” would have been more accurate.
I think that there is an esoteric Spiritualism, but it consists of more
subtle laws than the majority of Spiritualists consider. I know a
gentleman who is doing practical work with occult forces.
Mr. Fitz-G erald: I must confess that I have not been entirely
speaking “to” you, but in some degree have been speaking “at”
others, and “ esoteric ” was, perhaps, not the best word to use. The
general public hear of physical phenomena, and of paid mediums to
whom they attribute their production. I wish to point out that behind
this there is another Spiritualism—higher, holier, better, but for the
most part kept sacred, and confined to private families.
Nov. 10, 1876.
j | The Rev. E. Miall remarked : As a stranger I have listened with
) j extreme interest to the paper, and think that great good to the cause
(! of Spiritualism would ensue if it were put into the hands of that
] | large class of inquirers called sceptics. I have scarcely advanced my-
| i self beyond the position of an investigator in relation to this matter.
/ i I am a religious teacher, and I heartily concur with the remarks of a
i theological character with which the paper has been interspersed.
(Applause.)
| Mr. Humphreys said: The first part of the paper ought to be made
| known to the public generally; it is written in such a manner that it
J| will be sure to make way. Moreover, it is not pretentious. I should
i say that exoteric Spiritualism includes all that we know, and that
{! esoteric Spiritualism is akin to inspiration, and comes from within.
} j I do not think that the latter term is applicable to an agent working
11 with occult forces, whatever they may be. Do they work within
(j his own brain, or are they what has been called “art magic”—
! (laughter)—of which I know nothing ? In either case it is still
| exoteric, not esoteric.
S j THE MINGLING OF INDIVIDUALITIES.
, i Mr. Thomas Shorter (who for fifteen years edited the Spiritual
i i Magazine) said : I have given attention to Spiritualism for twenty
11 years, and have been greatly interested in the paper which has been
\ | read. Mr. Fitz-Gerald has dealt with a branch of the subject rendered
i difficult because of the intimate relation which exists between the
medium and the communicating spirit; this makes it not easy to devise
tests which shall not at some time be unfavourable to the production
of the phenomena in question. I am glad that there is an Experi¬
mental Research Committee in connection with this Association, and
would remark to its members that a large portion of the phenomena—■
especially those produced at public seances—take place under conditions
j of darkness. Such is not the case in Eastern countries, where powerful
manifestations are stated by competent witnesses to be produced in
broad daylight in the open air. I therefore think it should be the
j object of the committee to get more manifestations in the light.
(Hear, hear.) No test which can be devised for the phenomena is so
good as that of long and patient observation. (Applause.) Mr. Crookes
i told me that if he had stopped short after two months’ investigation he
should have thought that the manifestations were due to fraud, but
later on proofs of independent intelligence crowded upon him, and
such, I believe, is the experience of most inquirers. Novices should
j guard against rushing to hasty generalisations, for wrong conclusions
| may easily be drawn from accurate observations. The spirit sometimes
operates through the organism of the medium, and sometimes outside
the organism ; in the former case it is difficult to know which is the
independent action of each.
. Mrs. Hallock : Before anybody else speaks I should like to clear my
skirts of any knowledge of “ art magic.” I know a gentleman who
I carries on business in a spiritual way ; he sends messages back wards
and forwards, and he knows what is going on in several distant places ;
he is thus saved the writing of many letters. Since Dr. Hallock left
for America I have kept in a state of perfect spiritual sympathy with
| him, and I always know when he is depressed in spirits. So accu-
i rately do I feel his sensations, that it is almost unnecessary for us to
I communicate by letter. We are constantly aware of the real state of
each other’s health. If I am troubled here, he is troubled there. I
have been four weeks wandering about this dismal city looking for
suitable apartments ; during that time I have been in a disturbed state
of mind, and Dr. Hallock is sure to have been in the same condition
in consequence.
Mr. Rennick : Has any fact been conveyed in this way ?
I Mrs. Hallock : Yes, hundreds. I know in a general way what his
[ | pursuits are, and I can obtain particular information too.
Mr. Rennick : If an accident happened to him, or if his house were
i| to be burned down, would you know it otherwise than by letter 1
II Mrs. Hallock : I have no doubt I should know it.
i i Mr. Harrison: Your evidence shows that there is spiritual sympathy
11 between you and Dr. Hallock; but Mr. Rennick desires to know
| i whether things in the shape of exact facts can be communicated with
11 precision.
>j Mrs. Hallock : I have had precise facts. When Dr. Hallock is deal-
! | ing with our tenants in America, I know what steps they are taking.
> | This sympathy between Dr. Hallock and myself has been going on for
11 months and months.
The Chairman : If anybody in America were to go to your husband
) | and say, “ I wish to impress you with the number ‘ fifty-four,’ and the
| colour ‘ red,’” and he then telegraphed to England to know your im-
I pressions, would you be aware of the words “ fifty-four,” and the colour
! “ red ” ? Do you think such a thing possible 1
(I Mrs. Hallock : I do not know ; we have never tried ; but I have
(j received things of that kind directly from spirits. My sister, the
S i former wife of Mr. Dale Owen, had a daughter, who died ; that
(i daughter’s spirit came to me and told me to inform her mother of her
(I death, and to tell her that she had a blue silk dress. It turned out
/ j that she had died, and that at that time she had a blue silk dress not
| quite finished. Dr. Hallock and myself are not trying these experi-
(| ments as a special thing. They come “ by the way.’ ’
)l The Chairman: Well, I impress you with those three words this
(I evening, and hope that Dr. Hallock will receive them in America.
) i Miss Kislingbury : In spiritual communications ideas are usually
\! conveyed by impressions, and not by exact language; there are no
(| ideas connected with those words you have mentioned.
) j Mr. Rennick : Then will Mrs. Hallock think of the words “ occultM
(| and “ religion,” which have plenty of ideas connected with them.
(! Mrs. Hallock: I will make a note of it.
( j MATERIALISTIC INTOLERANCE.
’i! Dr. Carter Blake, Lecturer on Anatomy at Westminster Hospital,
Nov. 10, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
173
said : Let us be certain of the words we employ. I think we should i (
make a distinction between Spiritualists and Spiritists, as they do in i <
France. Several mediums have been employed by the Research Com- j j
mittee, most stringent tests have been applied to them, and for some fi
of those tests the mediums were not prepared by previous information, h
Those gentlemen outside the pale of this society who, happily for our- j ]
selves, are neither Spiritualists nor Spiritists—(laughter)—will ac-
knowledge, when our results come to be published, that a very careful j i
method of investigation has been adopted. We have tried many ex- |1
periments, and have repeated them again and again before coming to j (
any conclusion. We are doing good work, and I hope we shall all be [<
grey-headed before we give our final report. There is a great deal of (1
work yet to be done, and perhaps with mediums who have not yet
been under our hands. The members of the Research Committee hope h
that no medium will be deterred from meeting us by thinking that !]
there is any cruelty, either in electrical tests, or in any elaborate and j i
secret methods of tying ; there is nothing which any honest medium j1
need fear to face. As yet we have had to do with perfectly honest j ]
mediums. If those gentlemen who vilify us, and call us “ wild beasts ” ji
•—(laughter)—would be kind enough to work on this committee, they |1
would have an opportunity of developing the spiritual qualities of
patience and good temper. We want efficient aid and sincere workers,
knowing that no inquirer who is honest and sincere will come to con¬
clusions from one experiment, but will try it many times over in the
presence of others. Mr. Fitz-Gerald has worked most efficiently on the
Research Committee.
IS IT DESIRABLE TO CONVERT PHYSICISTS?
Mr. W. H. Harrison remarked: Mr. Fitz-Gerald has said that when
the man of science hears that houses have been shaken by spirits he has I
a right to ask merely for the swing of a pendulum suspended from solid j
masonry. So I once thought, and in the early days of my connection j
with Spiritualism my highest ambition was to take a medium to the
Royal Institution, and to set one of the electrical lamps floating about j
so that the lecturer could not capture it. Those desires have changed.
There are plenty of physical facts in the world, and a philosopher can
himself set a pendulum swinging by invisible means, producing a result
almost miraculous to the uninformed. My present point is—“ Suppose
a pendulum were suspended against that wall, and a physical philosopher
were to ask that it should be swung by a spirit, and a spirit were
able to move it at once, would it be right to do so ? ” I say “No.” If
that man of science is so full of conceit and self-assertion that he j
thinks the testimony of his neighbours worthless; that it is a conde¬
scension on his part to search out the facts for himself, and implies that
he observes them as a favour, I say that such a man would be a dis¬
grace to our movement if he were brought within its pale, and that |
the spirits do right to bring together only people who trust each other,
and to shut out those who look upon their neighbours as knaves or
fools. One result of the lack of precision of physical manifestations is
that it has brought together people who trust each other, and has shut
out from our ranks people who cheat each other.
Mrs. Hallock : I am delighted with what Mr. Harrison has said, for ]
I think that the movement has been placing itself in an undignified 1
position, and that such tests as mediums are able to present to scientific
men they ought now to refuse to give them. I think that mediums
should say “ We will not sit for you ; we will now have nothing to do j
with the outside world at all.” On this principle I told Dr. Slade that j
it was his duty never to give Mr. Lankester another sitting even to save
his life. (Applause.) As I am sensitive to the influence of sitters, I
can testify that there are certain people in the world that nothing would
induce me to bring to a spirit circle at all; they interfere with the
spirit influence. It is high time that we took a more positive position
with regard to the outside world.
Mrs. Lowe, honorary secretary to the Lunacy Law Reform Associa- j
tion, asked: Has man any nobler mission than to offer newly-acquired j
truths to his brother man ?
The Rev. E. Miall: You should remember that there are other dis¬
believers than those of the Lankester stamp.
Mrs. Hallock: Yes, but those who are not altogether of his stamp
support him.
Mr. Harrison: I agree with Mrs. Lowe that it is our duty to make
known all truths within our knowledge, but that having told them, our
duty and responsibilty end. If the listeners then abuse us I think we
should hold our tongues, and enter into no argument with them, j
When they further say, “ How can you believe in such an imposture ?
Only take me to a spirit circle, and I will soon discover the truth,” I
think the following to be a proper reply—“ I will not take you to a spirit
circle, because before you had made any inquiry you told me the facts i
were imposture; therefore you are not an honest man, and you are not
a candid investigator. Besides, I will not take you to my friend the
medium, that you may decide for your own satisfaction whether he is j
an honest man or not; he cares nothing for your opinion, and I will |
no more do it than I would bring him to you to decide whether you are
honest or not. He has quite as much right to question your integrity as
you have to question his. If you desire to learn anything about the
subject, form a spirit circle in your own house, and when you get the j
manifestations let your friends apply your own tests of honesty to
yourself.”
THE EVIDENCE REQUIRED BY MATERIALISTS.
Mr. G. R. Tapp said : There are two kinds of spiritual manifestations
—the one addressed to our higher natures, and the other to our lower
perceptions. It is said that raps are undignified, and the movement of
solid objects not worthy of serious consideration. I think that
they are worthy of all consideration, and that the physical phe¬
nomena appeal with more power than any others to materialists. There
are some people who cannot be appealed to except by being knocked on
the head, and can only be convinced by such manifestations. Then !
doubt takes the place of obstinacy. Consequently I think we are justi¬
fied in applying tests to mediums, and placing all the phenomena one
by one beyond question. I will give you an instance. A friend of
mine, a thorough materialist, said to me—“ Give me the noblest trance
address, utter to me the soundest philosophy, I could not believe it was
done by a spirit. I should think it was imposture, or some abnormal
mental condition; but if you can show me that the law of gravitation is
set at defiance, I will look into the matter; from that side only can I
investigate the phenomena of Spiritualism.” His position is that of
many others in these days when people begin to disbelieve in spirit alto¬
gether.
Mr. Fitz-Gerald: I look upon sceptics as friends from whom our
ranks are recruited; but another view has been taken of them this
evening, and that, too, with some firmness. If our ranks are to receive
accessions from sceptics, we should throw out endeavours in a direction
to convince them. I think Mr. Lankester must be an entirely excep¬
tional man (laughter), and, after separating him from other disbelievers,
we ought to have some sympathy for them. They are not only annoyed
by the belief that Spiritualism is imposture, but they are especially
aggravated by the conviction that it is a successful imposture. Its
success makes them very angry. I think we should do a little in the
endeavour to convince them. I sometimes ask one of them to my
house. He accepts. He spoils the seance. (Laughter.) Some things
happen which he ascribes to the performance of other guests; but still
his mind is influenced to a certain extent by even the most superficial
inquiry. If he is patient in his investigation, he perhaps may see a
pencil stand on end in the light, and this convinces him; therefore, we
should try to develops unanswerable phenomena. The class upon
whom every endeavour is thrown away consists of those people who
always follow authority, who revere Lord So-and-so, Dr. This, or the
Rev. That.
Mr. Harrison thought that time and money would be better employed
in research by those who understood the subject, rather than in
attempting to drag in disbelievers against their will. The latter might
be allowed to enter the movement twelve or fourteen years hence, when
they could not help themselves, and could then be put to do its
rough work.
Mr. Shorter: I would divide sceptics into two camps—those who are
honest inquirers, and merely sceptics on intellectual grounds; and
those who reject all arguments and facts, as of no value in the face of
their preconceived dogmas.
Mr. Glendinning (of Glasgow): Looking back upon our experience,
most of us, I suppose, started in Spiritualism with the study of the
physical phenomena which are so very startling when first observed.
When I was thoroughly convinced I brought my knowledge under the
notice of my friends and everybody I met, the chief result being that I
was laughed at for my pains and considered fit only for a lunatic
asylum. If I had shown them the phenomena the case might have been
different. Among those I converted was a clergyman who inquired
secretly into the matter and became a medium himself.
Mr. Harrison: I am inclined to argue that the prosecution of re¬
search, whereby laws, facts, and principles will be discovered, is the
best mode of proselytising. Then, when various learned societies are
beset with problems which they cannot unravel, we could step in and
give them the explanation made clear to us by our deeper knowledge of
nature, so that many of them would be obliged to come to us for ad¬
vanced information, and forced to admit that we are dealing with truth.
“ Knowledge is power,” as the school copy-books say.
Mr. Rennick: Hard words have been used about the class to which
I belong. I am a thorough sceptic, and when I came here did not
intend to take part in the debate. When a problem is properly appre¬
hended we have got far towards its solution. There are two kinds of
scepticism—first, as to the facts; secondly, as to the explanation. I
may perhaps believe in the facts, but it is entirely another thing when
you ask me if they are due to Spiritualism. I think we are far short
of having explored the whole of the facts of nature, and I cannot see
anything supernatural in psychological phenomena. The explanation
of Spiritualism is no explanation at all, but is perfect rubbish to me. I
want to know the natural force by which the phenomena are produced.
Mr. Gray, G.E., said: The last speaker has demonstrated that he is
a sceptic, for while he knows scarcely anything of the phenomena of
Spiritualism, he has come to anl absolute decision as to their funda¬
mental nature. If he saw a spirit form in this room, would not that be
evidence to him of immortality ?
Mr. Rennick: No.
Mr. Gray continued: If he further recognised that form as a de¬
parted brother of his own, would not that be evidence to him of the
reality of the life beyond the grave ?
Mr. Rennick: No.
Mr. Gray: Well, if I saw a brother after the death of his body it
would be evidence to me. Now, I wish to speak about tests. It does
not matter whether people admit our facts or not, there they are, whether
they are believed or disbelieved; if we ascertain these things, it does not
matter at all to us if the uninformed call us idiots, they will be sorry
for it one day, and will have to eat the leek in time. Our best plan is
to go on heaping fact upon fact, without caring anything for the outside
world. If people were to say that the electric light is not a reality, instead
of arguing with them, the best plan would be to put an electric light
upon a house-top, and although the public would then look at it, and
deny that there was any light there, after a time some of them would be
obliged to candidly admit that they did see it. (Laughter.) Let us,
then, pile fact upon fact, and leave the result to time. This would be
far better than attempting to bring people into the movement, and I
quite think that we should not throw pearls before swine. Sometimes
talkers say, “ Well, if it is true, what is the good of it ? ” I reply, “ If
you cannot see the beauty of it there is an end of the matter, and I
think it is waste of time to attempt to show you.”
m
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 10, 1876.
The Chairman: I see Mr, Simmons in the audience, and should be
glad if he would say a few words.
Mr. Simmons, who rose amid loud and continued applause, said: I
did not intend to speak, but will just mention that in New York I met
a gentleman who wrote against the phenomena of modern Spiritualism
for twelve years, and when he admitted them denied the spiritual theory.
He rather prided nimself that such was the case. One day I heard a
Spiritualist say to him, “ Your position is not to your credit, for on your
own showing you took twelve years to discover what another man found
out in an hour, and the same may be the case with your present theory.”
This argument struck him so forcibly, that he held his tongue after¬
wards. I have noticed in my experience with Dr. Slade, that the best
tests have been obtained when volunteered by the spirits themselves,
and not attempted to be put on by the inquirers. One day a gentleman
came for a sitting; and placed his hat and umbrella in the corner of the
room. Soon afterwards a noise attracted his attention, and he saw his
umbrella walking across the room with his hat on the top of it.
(Laughter.) A friend of his afterwards came with the desire to see the
same manifestation, but did not get it for some time. At last, one day
when he did not expect it, he saw the umbrella walking about with the
hat on the top of it, and nothing visible touching either.
Mr. Rennick said that his position was that no intelligence was dis¬
played at stances beyond that already in the possession of the members
of the circle.
Mr. Shorter told how a stranger from America came to England in
search of a name from a baptismal register, which he expected to find
in Yorkshire.1 He searched in vain for months, until he went to a
medium, taking written questions in his pocket. These questions were
answered by the spirits without his reading them aloud; and in
answer to one of them, he was told to search a register at Stepney for
the name he wanted. Being a stranger in London, he did not know
where Stepney was, and had to inquire his way there, but he then found
the name he wanted. A similar case was narrated by Lord Lindsay to
the Dialectical Society.
Mr. Rennick thought that if he gave time to inquire into the authen¬
ticity of the narrative, he should find some missing link.
Mr. Shorter said that the Dialectical Society was quite competent to
cross-examine the witnesses who came before it, and did so in a close
and severe manner.
Dr. Carter Blake asked how Mr. Rennick explained the obtaining of
messages in languages unknown to the medium ?
Mr. Rennick was not there to answer questions. (Laughter.)
The Chairman made a few remarks, to the effect that if the know¬
ledge of materialists were traced to its roots, it would be found to be
based upon transcendentalism. Nobody had ever seen one of the hypo¬
thetical atoms of matter, and physicists could not agree either as to
their size or nature.
The Rev. Mr. Miall moved a vote of thanks to the president for his
excellent address.
This was seconded by Mr. Rennick, and carried with acclamation,
after which the meeting broke tip.
PAID MEDIUMS.
At the last meeting of the Psychological Society, Major
Hartley, in the course of some remarks about paid mediums,
said that however poor he might be, he would never make
money by such a gift, supposing that he had been born
with medial powers. As every seance draws upon the vital
energy of a medium exactly the same as a hard day’s work,
there being no u creation ” of power, he forgot to explain
why the observers were entitled to help themselves to that
property of the medium without paying for it; he likewise
forgot to deal with the logical difficulty, that supposing a
medium were excessively poor, by what means was he to
keep from starvation if not remunerated for his services by
those who received and appropriated the benefit ? Did he
mean that the medium was to work at other occupations
during the day, and to sit for manifestations in the evening?
If so, that meant, when judged by the great law of the con¬
servation of energy, that every poor medium was expected,
unlike other mortals, to do the work of fourteen days in
seven. Major Hartley, who spoke in an off-hand way, with
the best intentions, should consider these logical, mathe¬
matical, and moral difficulties, and give their solution at
the next meeting of the Psychological Society.
When the newspaper called the Christian Spiritualist was
started some years ago, the editor began with a vigorous
article on the energetic steps he was about to take against
paid mediums. We in return printed a quiet little para¬
graph to the effect that the only difference between paid
mediums and paid preachers was this—that whilst both re¬
ceived remuneration for their services, the medium could
show proof of being in communication with the next world,
whilst the paid preacher could not do so, but gave his own
assertion to that effect. The editor of the Christian Spirit¬
ualist was a well-known dissenting preacher, and the
practical effect of our comment was, that not another word
j<j against remuneration for medium ship appeared in his
|)| columns daring the many years subsequent existence of the
j)| Christian Spiritualist.
m There is no doubt that the truest spiritual revelations are
1(1 so high and so pure as to-be infinitely above all money con-
m siderations, and that a church which receives money in re-
m turn for them is thereby self-condemned. But high spirit-
ill uality or morality is not usually allied to the physical
|V] manifestations of Spiritualism, which are produced by de¬
ll | lightfully human and fallible intelligences, steeped some-
||| times in error and in sin, but put to work out their own
||| salvation by converting scientific and other materialists of
||| their own stamp to believe in something which governs
| | matter. As they are thus allied to earthly conditions, all
m concerned are justly entitled to the usual recompense for
earthly work. A poet, a genius, a clergyman, or a bishop
ijl endowed with the higher gifts of the spirit might very pro-
||| perly, on religious grounds, refuse to receive any money
l|| remuneration.
||| The scientific materialists whose reputations are being
||l destroyed by the facts of Spiritualism, and the untruthful
|<| newspaper editors whose influence is being swept away in
|)| like manner, say violent things against paid mediums.
i|| Any knowledge of the facts of the case is not at all
I I necessary for these people, because they know that
jji the uninformed public will swallow anything they say
|| without inquiry. But the facts of the case are that
jj instead of Spiritualism depending upon a large number of
jj assumed vile impostors who are making money out of the
II credulous, there are only three or four recognised profes-
| j sional mediums for physical manifestations throughout the
I whole of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland,
I not excluding the islands in the British seas, and the town
| of Berwick-upon-Tweed ; consequently it matters in a very
| slight degree to Spiritualists whether these three or four
11 persons continue their business or not. The only incon-
I venience which would result from their ceasing to give
| public seances would be, that scientific and intelligent
S inquirers wishing to see the phenomena would be informed
{I that sittings had been discontinued, in consequence of per-
11 secution, originating with their more intolerant brother
(I materialists, consequently the applicants must form circles
|; in their own homes; in other words, the whole of the in-
| convenience would fall upon a few disbelievers who were
11 inclined to inquire without condemning, but found the
11 means of investigation cut off by the misdeeds of the
11 more violent of their own clan.
[ | During the present raid upon the few professional mediums
11 who exist, our recommendation to them is that they shall shut
11 their doors against the public, and turn the key. Those
| mediums who have a character and an established repu-
| tation, possess circles of friends of their own ; let them
write to those friends, and ask each to engage them once
| a week, or once a fortnight during the next three months, to
I give private seances in their respective homes, on condition
I that the said mediums in return shall cease to advertise, and
I will undertake to shut out the public altogether. The prac-
| tical effect of this will be that the public may howl as much
| as they please, but they will not be able to witness mani-
| festations except by obtaining them in their own homes, or
| by seeking, as a matter of grace and favour, for invitations to
the private seances of Spiritualists. Thus the few professional
mediums will for a time be placed on the same footing as the
large number of private mediums, upon whose gifts modern
Spiritualism rests, and to whom the public cannot gain
access except as the greatest of privileges. Mr. Flowers, in
his decision against Dr. Slade, went out of his way to give
the erroneous information that Mr. Home was a professional
medium. Mr. Home was nothing of the kind, and he has
frequently been known to refuse as much as twenty guineas
| for a seance. At present the few professional mediums
I derive their support almost entirely from Spiritualists, and it
;| will be no great inconvenience to anybody to shut out the
I public altogether. Those disbelievers who may feel them-
(j selves aggrieved by this, should send their complaints to
) | those of their own class who have brought about the present
i position.
{1 As it is now well known that materialists and atheists are
Nov. 10, 1876.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
175
in a state of intense annoyance at the way in which their
reputations are being destroyed by the facts of Spiritualism,
those professional mediums who do not take sufficient care
to lock out ungentlemanly and untrustworthy persons from
their seances, cannot expect the Spiritual movement to fight
their battles, if false charges are hereafter brought against
them. They now know the danger of being attacked by
people who are blinded by ignorance and by animus, conse¬
quently if they, with this knowledge, put their heads into the
lion’s jaws, they do so on their own responsibility, and cannot
call upon the Spiritual movement to pay the expenses of
defence. The animus is so great that a mob a few days ago
broke into the hall at Islington at which Mrs. Bullock gives
her Sunday lectures on Spiritualism, and smashed up most
of her furniture. Where were the police ?
THE SLADE PROSECUTION.
The efficient fighting of the Slade case is now a question
of money. Many Spiritualists have already given much
time and work to the case, but now the matter rests in the
hands of Spiritualist capitalists whose turn it is to do their
part. Miss Douglas has set a good example by raising her
subscription to the Spiritualists’ defence fund, from £5 to
£25. The small committee which watched the police court
case is about to be greatly enlarged. There are many
wealthy people among Spiritualists and psychologists who
observe the phenomena for amusement, and get everything
out of the movement they can, without ever doing anything
in its support; these would do well to give up their thought¬
lessly ignoble position, and to do their duty like their
neighbours.
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE FUND.
The following donations have been received by ns, the Executive
Committee—
Chaii'man—Alexander Caldeb, 1, Hereford-sqnare, S.W.
Joint Treasurers.
J. Enmore Jones, Enmore Park, S.E.
George Wyld, M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, W.
It is of vital importance that a vigorous effort be made at once by
every person interested in Spiritualistic phenomena, to influence their
friends to forward donations to the Spiritualists’ Defence Fund, so
that adequate legal power may be secured to successfully sustain the
appeal that has been made to a higher court than that of Bow-street.
SPIRITUALISTS’ DEFENCE
Miss Douglas . .
Mr. G. C. Joad
Mr. Alexander Calder
,, Charles Blackburn
Mrs. Weldon .
Mr. Martin Smith .
Miss H. . . .
Sir C. Isham, Bart.
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze
„ W. Tebb
„ J. Enmore Jones
„ T. Grant
,, C. C. Massey .
Mrs. Makdougall Gregor
,, Douglas Bay ley
Dr. George Wyld .
Mr. Hensleigk Wedgwood
„ T. E. Partridge,
„ J. Bulteel.
„ P. B. J. .
„ A. Joy .
„ H. Withall
Captain James..
Dr. J. Dixon .
Mi’s. Lowe
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun
Dr. K. Cook
KG.
J. R. W. .
Mrs. Maltby
Mr. Manners .
,, W. P. Adshead
Mrs. S. Parker.
Mr. J. C. Ward
„ E. D. Rogers
,, Morell Theobald
„ William Theobald
„ R. M. Theobald, M.A.
„ H. N. .
„ J. Andre .
Smaller sums .
SUBSCRIPTION LIST.
£ s. d.
25 0 0
25 0 0
10 10 0
10 10 0
10 10 0
10 10 0
10 0 0
10 0 0
0 0
5
0
0 0
0 0
0 0
5 0-0
5 0 0
SOB
6 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
5 0 0
3 0 0
2 2
2 2
2
2
2
1 1
1 1
0
0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0
0 0
1 0
1 0
8 0
AN EFFICIENT AND INEXPENSIVE STEP.
Scientific materialists are getting into a state of fury
about Spiritualism ; they have long been asserting to their
followers that the phenomena do not exist, whereas the
manifestations are everywhere destroying their reputations,
and breaking down public confidence in their assertions by
spreading into every home. Further, the facts are death to
the dark and debasing teachings of materialism and atheism.
Never was there a greater demand for information on the
part of the public, and as the three or four recognised pro¬
fessional physical mediums are not likely to give seances to
strangers in these times of attempted persecution, disap¬
pointed inquirers should be told to form circles in their own
homes. To facilitate such attempts, and in response to de¬
mands sent to us, we have reprinted the best of the sworn
evidence in favour of Dr. Slade, and have added instructions
how to. form circles at home with no Spiritualist or profes¬
sional medium present. All this has been printed on a large
leaf, the size of a page of The Spiritualist, and these leaves
may be had from our branch office at seventeen shillings per
thousand. Smaller quantities may be had at two shillings
per hundred, post free. If every reader of these lines dis¬
tributes but one hundred to householders the whole nation
will within a week be well saturated with information about
Spiritualism. It should be remembered that a stance at
home costs nothing, and that directly a private family ob¬
tains the manifestations away in a crash goes every atom of
confidence in the many unscrupulous and untruthful news¬
papers and men of science; their influence is at an end, and
most deservedly so. By the plan recommended a great
number of new supporters can quickly be gained for Spirit¬
ualism.
Newcastle Spiritualists intend to distribute 5,000 of these
circulars in their town; if other centres of population act in
like proportion, we shall have the newspapers and materialists
telling great masses of people that the facts which they wit¬
ness in their own homes do not take place.
The collected poems of Mr. J. T. Markley, of Peterborough, are
about to be published.
Mr. Gledstanes is now in London, but will return to Paris in a day
or two.
Local Spiritual societies and mediums who wish for information
on legal points connected with their work, could not do better than to
ask the Council of the National Association of Spiritualists, which meets
next Tuesday, to obtain the information for them.
Last week Professor Calderwood gave a long address at Edinburgh
University on “ Science and Spiritualism,” from which we shall quote
portions next week. He reviewed at some length the experiments of Mr.
Crookes.
A mesmerist, who sends us certificates that he has healed various
diseased persons by his power, asks whether he can be prosecuted under
the Vagrancy Act for so doing. A lawyer informs us that he comes quite
as much within the meaning of the Act as Dr. Slade.
“Vivisection Extraordinary.”—Mrs. Clark (Leigh-street, near
Bridgwater) writes to us:—“ If no better comment has been sent you on
the letter in your Tuesday’s issue from a Fellow of the Royal Medical and
Chirurgical Society, may I suggest that if, because the law forbids a
man kicking his wire to death, he forthwith goes and kicks someone else’s
wife, this would hardly be regarded by people, not fellows of a Royal
Society interested in the maintenance of the liberty to kick, as a ‘ pointed
argumentum et hominem ’ in favour of allowing him to kick his own wife
as he chose, even if she should be a ‘ comparatively worthless ’ person,
and the other a very valuable one ? Of course I am concluding that the
experiment narrated by your correspondent was performed without the
consent of the ‘ poor Swiss ’ who was operated on; no doubt he was
securely bound and gagged, perhaps ‘ crucified ’ to keep him still.
Because if he, having fore-knowledge of the exact experiment to be per
formed on him, consented—that is, balanced the probable amount of suf¬
fering against so much pay, and chose the former—the analogy to vivi¬
section of animals entirely breaks down. Either there must be so much'
cruelty in the experiment that a man ought not to be allowed to consent
to it, or so very little cruelty that there was no more harm in doing it with
the man’s consent than upon an animal; while there is this advantage,
that the man can place his own limit to the experiments to be performed
on him. Thus, unless it was a case of compulsion, the argumentum et
hominem of your correspondent becomes an argument ad captandum
vulgus. Those who see a little deeper will ask, as a truer analogy, what
will the Fellow of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society say when
hundreds of ‘ comparatively worthless ’ British human beings are kid¬
napped, by the Turks say, to become the involuntary subjects of secret
and public scientific experimentation, according to the pattern (improved
upon) of more scientific, but also more squeamish, nations ? If ‘ com-
parative worthlessness ’ in the subject really justifies torture, why not
devote our criminal classes to the advancement of scientific research?
If vivisectors answered candidly, would they not say, ‘Because these
have an uncomfortable power of combination, resistance, and ven¬
geance.’”—Daily News.
176
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 10, 1876.
POWERFUL MANIFESTATIONS IN MANCHESTER. j
BY CHRISTIAN REIMERS. !.)
The boisterous nature of the stance I recently reported I
would not induce me to describe another of the kind, con- ;(
sidering the beautiful, sometimes truly elevating manifes- j
tations we enjoy in my private circle, but that the extension i
of the area of facts prepares a basis for the theory of the |
future. These interesting stances seem to come in proper |
time to give additional importance to Mr. St. George Stock’s |
highly suggestive communications, and, I may add, that if ]|
I had gained no other experience than at these two sittings j
my belief in Spiritualism in the higher sense would be far j
off; I should then only accept the reality of presence of a j
mysterious a manager of psychic force,” and leave it to i
persons with finer smelling organs to decide whether it had j
an aroma of brimstone. |
Mr. Cook, the celebrated billiard hero, was with us as ;
medium companion of Mr. Swallow at a stance on the 24th |
inst. We sat in the same private room, and joined our | |
hands round the heavy circular table. After extinguishing j i
the lights the power rushed in like a flood. There were a j j
few moments’ terrible noise; I ordered a light, more alarmed m
than curious, and there was Mr. Cook entranced on the floor, j j
his head under the sofa; several others too, and the bulky j j
table upset. The groaning of the mediums, and the con- j j
fusion of the new witnesses, culminated in the cry of an j j
alarmed sceptic, “ Quick I Let us send for a doctor!” I j I
was sorry there were no doctors on the Jloor. I put my hand I !
on Mr. Cook’s brow ; he began to look and smile at me, as j j
one relieved from danger. All this sent a thrill through I |
everybody present, except a sceptical young German, whose m
laughter brought from me a violent explosion of anger, and j/j
some little abuse. I requested him to quit the room. The m
test of the truthfulness of the facts which he obtained later ||]
on caused me to ask him to forget this unpleasant encounter, j j
Order restored, we took our seats again, and a shower of 11
pieces of chalk from the billiard table fell upon our table, | j
and playing-cards were scattered about; then, with a crash, | |
the table fell, as well as some of the sitters. I ordered a jij
light to be struck. There was the chair test; the handle of | j
the chair had been threaded upon the arms of two of j j
the sitters, while their hands were joined; both of them m
were flat on the carpet, and in a profound trance. Their [¥]■
restoration occupied much time. The expression upon the j(j
faces of the new set of sceptics was highly impressive at this m
moment, but the greatest marvel had to come. Being j j
tired, and almost disgusted with this kind of work, I j j
proposed to close hands, standing all round the table, j|j
to . try if it would move without contact with us, by j j
way of finale to the stance, now advanced to past two IH
o’clock in the morning. After I saw all hands linked, the m
gas was turned out, and the table tilted and jumped as if j j
determined to be smashed; there were strange, whizzing j j
noises,, interrupted by exclamations of “Oh!” “Give ji
over!” “My coat!” and so on. A light was struck, and j L
there they stood, with the ring perfectly closed by means of jlj
joined hands, but five of the members looked flabbergasted, j j
for they were in their shirt sleeves, their coats being clean hf
“off and away.” A bundle of well-packed coats rested on |jj
the shoulders of a fierce sceptic. But this was not all. Herr \)\
Stade’s neck was tied up with a towel, shawls, and j j
sundry rags, most ludicrous to behold; another had his j j
arm bandaged, and my sceptical young German stood jjj
staring at the owners of missing coats, one of whom asked III
who put the improvised turban on his head. In making up i
for the pulling off of coats, several found themselves l||
exchanging their wrong overcoats. Then began the resto- j: j
ration of watches to the proper owners. Mr. Donhoe’s h|
diamond ring was on Mr. Cook’s finger; pocket-books |)|
were returned, letters, pieces of chalk (of which I found |i|
several in my pocket), and so bn. All this took considerable jtl
time. Mr. Donhoe missed both his boots, and one could | j
not be found anywhere; he therefore went in melancholy bj
mood down into the hall. Remembering the prank with j<|
his cigar box at the previous seance, I went with the waiter |>]
to the remotest corner of the hall, and there we found the jjj
solitary boot on the last bench. ; j
Investigators, trained in harmonious, quiet, home circles, jij
would feel staggered atwitnessingsuchphenomena, over which
there is no systematic control by a leading intelligence, such as
would seem to demonstrate the presence of an individual
“ spirit.” Taking the whole of the facts, they presented
more the general aspect of “ psychic force ” at work, than
Spiritualism proper.
Mr. Borroughes (of Borroughes and Watts), Soho-square,
who was present, was particularly impressed with what he
experienced individually. Mr. Samuel Nichols, who at¬
tended half a sceptic, had half of his coat pulled off, and
when I cunningly tried to persuade him that it might have
been done by himself unconsciously in the excitement, he
replied that the theory “ wouldn’t take,” even admitting
against his conviction a momentary separation of hands,
for the left sleeve was pulled off—a feat utterly against his
habit and capacity. But an occurrence of the most as¬
tounding nature was related by a gentleman, who next
morning missed his large bunch of a great number of keys.
That he had them that same evening was certain, as the key
for his cue was among them, and I saw him playing at
billiards before the sitting. After vainly searching for the
keys he went to his office, where he found them on his table.
In the course of the day, however, he heard that the keys
had been sent from Eccles, some five miles off, found at the
house of a gentleman who had not had the slightest connec¬
tion with the seance whatever; the finding of the bunch,
therefore, gave no clue to the mystery.
To whom among our mediums the principal power belonged
remained unsolved, consequently I accepted with delight
Mr. Cook’s suggestion to have on the following evening aquiet
stance with a few, including Mr. Swallow. But we were
disappointed, for Mr. Cook missed the last train from Oldham
and could not reach our place in time. I invited Mr. Oxley
for the occasion, and after nearly breaking up our party, Mr.
Donhoe kindly volunteered as medium for a sitting. I was
convinced of his medial powers, but surprised to learn their
real extent. We numbered from twelve to fourteen in the
circle round the table. The room could not be placed in
total darkness, but this gave more value to the extraordinary
facts. Mr. Donhoe’s swaying backwards and forwards
told of a coming trance, and with a groan he sank
to the floor. After a few manifestations of a minor cha¬
racter, a crackling noise, as of tin, indicated the passage of
a strange “ something ” to the table ; with a bang it landed
there—an immense dish cover, fit for use at a Lord Mayor’s
dinner, and wrapped in paper, claimed our attention. I had
previously locked the door; we thought there had been no such
thing in the billiard-room ; indeed, it had no business there.
Mr. Oxley and I went with it to the kitchen, to inquire of
the cook, as the proper authority to solve this mystery.
She pointed to a shelf near the ceiling as the home of the
runaway, beyond the reach of mortals without a step-ladder.
“Did you hear, or see it taken away?” Mr. Oxley in¬
quired. “ No, sir.” But we afterwards discovered that it,
being a large object, had been stowed away under the
billiard table without her knowledge. Sundry articles were
afterwards thrown on the table, but among the most per¬
plexing displays was the chair test, without the usual
disagreeable convulsions.. The two gentlemen, Mr. Levison
and Mr. , stood hand in hand with all the others in the
circle, and far away from the “ central ” medium. A kind
of shriek was heard, and a surprised “ What is that?” in¬
vited us to strike the light, when the chair was discovered
on their arms. I recommended renewed attention to the
clasping of their hands, and the chair was detached in the
same mysterious manner. The subsequent lifting of the
table clean off the floor, seemed to raise the new investi¬
gators at once out of the beaten track of school-knowledge.
The utterances of Mr. Elliott, a member of another club
(literary and artistic), where gross mis-representations have
ruled sober reasoning out of court, after this, his first seance,
pleased me very much, as showing the effect of one fact
against hosts of “ snobbish newspaper tirades.” Naturally,
some gentlemen were duly scoffed at after their newly-
gained knowledge, particularly by one sarcastical but hu¬
morous sceptic; but abuse does not answer with those who
know best. If I were to sum up the collected opinions of
these witnesses in one condensed expression, it might read:
“ He who believes all these strange phenomena to be the
work of spirits may be a dreamer, but he who ascribes them
Nov. 10, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
177
to trickery only must be a lunatic.” Spiritualism in Bow-
street appears to me like a powerful horse caught in a
mouse-trap—that is, one hair of its long tail is entangled.
“ How unspiritual, how ridiculous to pull off people’s
coats | It must be humbug!” But let scientific men try to
tell us how it is done, and the coat-puzzle gets serious ; the
laughter is then directed at their explanation. Let us
consult Lord Dundreary, who would say, stammering in his
perplexity: “ ’T-t-t-tis one of those things no F-f-f-fellah
of the W-w-woyal Society can unwavel! ”
2, Duoie-avexme, Manchester.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN. j j
On Thursday, last week, the first meeting this session of the Psy- |||
chological Society, was held at 11, Chandos-street, Cavendish-square, |)|
London, under the presidency of Mr. Serjeant Cox. There was a j
large attendance, the hall being completely filled, and the learned j|i
Serjeant was interrupted again and again during his address by the f|
rounds of applause which followed every allusion he made to the pro- ijj
secution of Dr. Slade. m
The following new members were elected: Mr. Stanhope Temple- j)j
man Speer, M.D., Mr. J. N. T. Martheze, Mr. Holmes, of Harrow, |]i
and Mr. Russell Kent. ! h
Mr. Serjeant Cox then delivered his presidential address, from ijj
which we omit a few paragraphs relating to the routine business of the j{i
Psychological Society :—
MB. SERJEANT COX’S PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS. i)j
It is my pleasing duty to open the third session of this society with a j j j
brief review of the work it has done since its last anniversary, and of j) j
the prospects with which it commences the third year of its existence, j j i
I have also to report the progress which our science has made, and the jjj
most important incidents that have occurred to it during the same jjj
period of time, for in the record of the past we may trace the promise of j s j
the future. jjj
My task will be one of almost unbroken congratulation. Our society jji
has good cause to be proud of the progress it has made and the position jjj
it has won. There has been a great accession to the number of its jjj
members. Increased attention has been given to its proceedings by the jjj
press and the public. The attendance at its meetings has never failed, jjj
The interest taken in them by members and visitors alike has not jjj
flagged. The papers read have been upon many subjects of the utmost jjj
interest and importance. The discussions have been animated and jjj
instructive. I believe I may assert that, with the single exception of jj
the ever-popular Geographical Society, no scientific association in jj
London has attracted so large and constant an attendance. H
1
THE PERSECUTION OF DR. SLADE. \\\
The subjects that have come under discussion during the last session j j j
have extended over a very wide area of psychological science. . . . Mr. jjj
Massey laid before us a report of some visits paid by him in America to jj
Dr. Slade and other psychics. He did not then anticipate the con- j j
spicuous part he would afterwards take at home in opposing the perse- jjj
cution of the former gentleman, and resisting the attempt of the jjj
Materialists, under a transparent pretext of protecting the public, to jjj
suppress the investigation of all psychological phenomena, because, if j j j
proved to be true, they are fatal to the theory of materialism. ... jjj
OPPOSITION TO NEW SCIENTIFIC TRUTHS. jjj
The subjects brought into debate have been remarkable for the extent jjj
of their range, showing the truly enlightened spirit in which the Society i j j
has entered upon its task—which is not to advance any system, or jjj
maintain any theory, or promote any ism, or support any foregone con- jjj
elusion, but to inquire what the truth is by observation of the facts of i j i
nature. We are not teachers, but learners—pupils, not masters. We j j
do not profess to promulgate a science, but to establish a science of jjj
which at present little more is known than the most elementary prin- j j
ciples, and the facts of which are as yet almost unexplored. We jj
acknowledge our ignorance of them. We admit frankly that the few jjj
hitherto collected are insufficient to afford a solid basis upon which to jjj
build up a science. When physical science was treated by the world as jjj
psychology has been treated until now, the physical sciences were as jjj
backward as is psychological science. So long as scientists used the j j
argument d priori—this cannot be, because it is inconsistent with some- j j
thing we know to be true ; that is impossible, for it is opposed to com- j j
mon sense and common experience—no progress was made. It was not jjj
until this incubus was shaken off, and a so-called philosophy of mere jjj
argument was abandoned for the exercise of the senses—when the j j
terms “impossible,” “improbable,” “irrational,” employed by one j I
party, and the scarcely less terrifying terms “sacrilegious,” diabolical,” j j j
“ supernatural,” “damnable,” shouted by another party, were treated ijj
with the contempt they deserved, that the sciences of astronomy, geo- i j j
logy, magnetism, and the rest, made a leap forward, and advanced with j j j
ever-growing speed along that highway of discovery and positive know- j j I
ledge on which they are still progressing. It is not long ago, in the j j j
measure of a world’s life, that it was declared to be opposed to common j j j
sense and to the experience of all mankind—aye, even of our senses— j(j
that the earth revolved round the sun; and the man who so asserted jjj
had a narrow escape from being burned alive for his audacity. But jji
now the whole world accepts this impossible theory, so contrary to [(!
common sense and universal experience, as an undoubted fact. Harvey
was persecuted almost to death for affirming the circulation of the
blood in the body. “Every man,” said his opponents, “who has ever
lived knows that it is not so; he could not have a stream running
through his body at such a rate without feeling it—besides, it is
contrary to the known laws of nature that a liquid should run
up-hill—we can prove by argument that it cannot be, and common
sense pronounces it impossible.” Stephenson was told by the sci¬
entists of his time that it was impossible d priori, and contrary to
common sense, that wheels should carry a heavy load over an iron tram
at a rapid rate; they would not bite and could only revolve without
advancing. When the phenomena of somnambulism were asserted
within living memory, they were denied, and their assertors denounced
as fools or rogues, impostors or dupes, because those phenomena were
strange, impossible, contrary to common sense and common experience,
and Dr. Elliotson was hounded to his ruin for declaring them to be
realities. And now these very phenomena, within my own memory so
vehemently denounced, and for exhibiting which prosecutions were
threatened, and persecutions were practised without stint, are admitted
by all physiologists to be true, and find their place as facts in every
treatise on mental physiology, and are proclaimed by learned professors
from the platform of the British Association for the Advancement of
Science.
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY.
This society is established to deal with the psychological science in
the same manner as physical science has been dealt with, and to which
its astonishing progress is due, by collecting all facts bearing on it from
all reliable sources; to observe and record all alleged phenomena
having relation to it; from those facts to trace the laws by which the
human intelligence is governed—what is its structure, what its relation¬
ship to the material mechanism in and by which it is exhibited, and in
what manner, and to what degree it influences the external world.
Surely this is a legitimate field for investigation; surely it is a work
worthy of the best intellects to inquire what the mechanism of man is
—what are his powers and capacities, what is that mind on which he
prides himself, if he really has the soul he had fondly believed, until
assured by the scientists of our time that it is a superstition and a
dream, and that even to look for it is to stamp you a fool, and to say
you have found it is to prove yourself a knave.
PROFESSORIAL INQUISITORS.
"We have, however, this great consolation—that it is the common lot
of all truths. The ordeal of truths is always and everywhere the same.
Interest and vanity combine against whatever threatens the profits or
the infallibility of the established chiefs of science. No weapon is
deemed to be unlawful in such a warfare. The formidable rival must
be suppressed at any cost. If argument will not suffice, then abuse
and ridicule. If facts cannot be explained, they must be boldly denied ;
—if inquiry is to issue in their affirmation, it must be suppressed
abuse and ridicule must not be spared, and, if these fail in their turn,
then the police court and the gaol. It was thus in old time the priest
succeeded in stamping out theological heresy. It is thus that in our
own time the scientists propose to stamp out scientific heresies. The
spirit is the same, the motive is the same, the dogmatism is the same,
the same end is sought by the self-same means. The Inquisition
flourishes still, but the inquisitors are professors. The only difference
is that they cannot now use the thumbscrew and the faggot. But they
do not scruple to exhume mouldy statutes, passed in times of ignorance,
wherewith to strangle the inquiry they dread, nor to torture with abuse
and ridicule and social discredit those whom they are unable to answer
by refuting their facts.
MATERIALISTIC DOGMATISM.
Dogmatically denying the existence of soul—believing honestly
that man is wholly material—that he is merely an automaton—that
his intelligence is only brain structure—that the conscious self is but
a condition of matter—thought but a secretion of the brain—that
man is nothing but the machine our senses show us—that soul is a
diluted insanity—spirit a myth—and life after death an invention of
priestcraft, the hostility of the scientists to such a Society as this is readily
explained. Denying the very existence of soul, an Association that
proposes to investigate the science of soul cannot but appear to them
a ridiculous folly. “ There is nothing for you to inquire into,” they
say. “ There is no such thing as that which your name assumes. If
there be, you cannot find it, for it is imperceptible and inconceivable.
You cannot grasp it, carve it, analyse it, exhibit it before the Royal
Society. Until you can do this psychology can be only a sham science.
We will none of it.”
But why the fierceness of wrath with which psychology is assailed
by the scientists 1 What means the rage it excites 1 The question
must have occurred often to many, and we may pause for a moment to
find the answer.
Enthusiasm in favour of proofs of the being of soul is intelligible
enough. It is at least a natural emotion. But an enthusiasm on be¬
half of materialism—an almost fanatical hope to prove soul not to be—
a burning desire to defeat whatever tends to prove its being, to sup¬
press inquiry and deter from investigation by appeals to prejudice and
ignorance, and by every unscrupulous device that the vocabulary of
abuse and the letter of the law can furnish, seems utterly unintelli¬
gible. A pursuit in search of soul might have been supposed to be at
least harmless. Any proofs of it asserted to be found might have
been expected to be received with respect and examined with eagerness.
But the fact is otherwise. If a blight and a curse were looked for
instead of that which, if it be, is the greatest prize that could be
offered to laborious investigation, the howls raised against it could not
be more full of malignity. Wherefore so ?
THE NATURAL ENEMIES OF SPIRITUALITY.
Psychology, or the science of soul, is denounced by several classes
Irom directly opposing motives.
178 THE SPIRITUALIST. Nov. 10, 1876.
.First the materialists—they who hold the faith that man is only
a machine which produces the force that moves and directs itself—
that death is annihilation, and the future a blank—are the natural
' enemies of psychology ; indeed, they are, and must ever be, engaged in
a struggle with it of life and death, for the two principles are in direct
antagonism—they cannot coexist. If one be true, the other is false.
If psychology supports her claims, materialism is extinguished. If
materialism maintains its contention, its assertion will be proved that
there can be no such science as psychology. The bitterness with
which the materialists assail the psychologists, the contempt they pour
upon them, the frantic endeavours they make to deter from the exami¬
nation of any phenomena that appear to point to the being of some¬
thing in man other than his mortal material structure, is thus ac¬
counted for.
. The hostility of materialism is therefore sufficiently explicable. Not
so the hostility of the opposite party. At the first blush it might be
supposed that theologists at least would have welcomed with delight
and hope what materialism views with dislike and dread. Theology is
built upon the assumption that man has a soul. If soul be a dream
and not a reality—if materialism be right and psychology wrong,
theology must close its churches, banish its priests, and burn its
libraries. But nevertheless, wonderful as it seems, the hostility of
theology to psychology is in fact only second to that of materialism.
What is the meaning of this?
The cause is clear though strange. Psychology proclaims its pur¬
pose to be to prove the existence of soul, or rather to seek for proofs of
it—not by argument or assertions, but by the evidence of facts and
phenomena, and to pursue it by the same methods, and establish it on
precisely the same basis, as the other facts of nature. Theology ob¬
jects to this that it is an intrusion upon her province and a practical
disputing of her authority. To seek for proof of soul as a fact implies
that it is not to be accepted on her authority as a dogma. Shallow as
such an argument may be, it prevails very extensively and enlists a
second great array of opponents.
The third army, not so powerful, perhaps, but still far more
numerous than it is thought to be, is formed of those who admit the
reality of the abnormal phenomena of insanity, delirium, somnam¬
bulism, and psychism, but say that they are the product of demoniacal
agency. The insane are possessed; the somnambulist has his wonder¬
ful supersensuous perceptions through devils; the force displayed in
psychism is an infernal power. These opponents have at least the
merit of consistency, and offer a fair question for examination.
Lastly, there are the mighty multitude who have no knowledge of
their own, who have never witnessed anything, who have not even the
capacity for judgment, who take all their opinions from others, and who
are wholly led by whatever may be the prevailing views of any question
whatever—mere echoes—as noisy and as empty.
THE DEMANDED REVERSAL OP SCIENTIFIC METHODS.
There is another remarkable feature of this warfare against the
existence of soul as asserted by psychology. Not only does it unite
the most opposing parties, but it is conducted by them in quite a novel
fashion. The usual course of scientists is to require each to keep to
his own science. If a new fact or a new theory is announced by the
electrician, the geographer or the geologist would not dream of passing
an opinion upon it. He would defer to the judgment of those whose
study it has been. So with individuals. What sane man who knew
nothing of magnetism or physiology, who had never witnessed an
experiment nor learned its principles, would proclaim himself a fool by
denying its facts and denouncing its theory ? The chemist takes his
electricity from the electrician, the physiologist looks to the geologist
for his geology—each would deem it an impertinence in the other if he
were to pronounce a judgment in the branch of knowledge not his own.
Strange it is, but true as strange, that this rational rule is wholly set
at naught in the treatment of psychology. Physical scientists deem
themselves competent to pronounce a dogmatic judgment upon psycho¬
logy and all that appertains to it, without having witnessed any of its
phenomena, and in entire ignorance of its principles and practice.
ON PROFESSORS WHO DEMAND THAT THE LAWS OF NATURE SHALL CHANGE FOR
THEIR SATISFACTION.
And what are the objections they have raised ? They are worthy of
notice only that they may be answered.
It must ever be remembered that psychological research differs from
physical experiment in tbis, that the subject is not only sensitive, but
has intelligence and a will. The subjects of physical research are
wholly at the control of the experimentalist. He can command his
own time, place, circumstances, and impose his own conditions. Other¬
wise it is with the psychologist. Time, place, circumstances, and con¬
ditions are not at his command, and he cannot impose his own conditions
upon his subject; they must be more or less imposed upon him. The
physicists are as unable or unwilling to recognise this as they are to
acknowledge a difference between organic and inorganic laws. They
continually talk of imposing their own conditions, upon a living intelli¬
gence, as they are accustomed to impose them upon a dead earth or
metal. A physicist who has distinguished himself in the great fight
now going on between materialism and psychology wrote thus to me,
“ Give me my conditions, and I will undertake to expose any number of
them.” He is right in this ; and I will undertake to do the like with
him and his colleagues. Give me my conditions, and I will warrant the
failure of every experiment they attempt, and exhibit them to the world
as apparent impostors. With a few drops of water I would easily
defeat several of Professor Tyndall’s brilliant experiments at the
Boyal Institution. I would not require even to go near him or to hold
his hands or examine his table. I would sit in the gallery far from
him, and a shower of invisible spray from the syringe with which I
water my plants would make him look as foolish as be would feel. Let
i me impose my conditions upon his experiments, and I will undertake
ijj to annihilate them. As it is, the world has faith in him, and his repu-
j|! tation would relieve him from suspicion of trickery and fraud. But*if
|he were a stranger, and for the first time exhibiting his marvellous
| (I experiments, and asserting, contrary to common experience, that light,
heat, electricity, and magnetism are transmutable, and that he would
j)i prove them to be so by experiments performed under his own condi-
! (| tions, those experiments failing under my conditions he would have been
j)| called a rogue and a vagabond, and prosecuted as an impudent impostor
uj by rival scientists whose theories his experiments would, if successful,
|(] have destroyed.
])! EXPERIMENTS IN VIVISECTION.
| j But this subjection of the experimentalist to conditions imposed by
jjj his subjects actually prevails with one branch of science—physiology,
ij! Mr. Lankester is a physiologist. He has advocated vivisection as
|jj vehemently as he opposes psychology. He is as eager to prove that
ijj animals do not feel pain as that man has no soul.' When he wants to
I (I dissect a living dog to view the beating heart and the quivering nerve,
!j| he must first paralyse the limited intelligence of the creature. The
I j physician who desires to learn the functions of the human mechanism
|u cannot do so when he pleases and how he pleases, or with any human
|jl structure he pleases—he must look for cases of abnormal action—and
In even then he must observe under conditions imposed by the patient,
Hi and not under his own.
jjj But what shall be said of those scientists who deliberately pronounce
j(j a judgment upon that of which they have seen nothing and know
Hi nothing ? What would they say if we were to do the like with them 1
jjj If a psychologist were to question the experiments of an electrician,
j(i or the discoveries of physiologists, having witnessed nothing and
j j j learned nothing of either, what would not be the reproach and ridicule
jj| heaped upon his impudence and ignorance by those whose studies and
j (j experiments he had set at naoght ? Or if the psychologist had called
j j j the physicist a fool for believing his eyes, declared him to be incom-
j j j petent to observe, and charged him with diluted insanity ?
THE COLLECTION OF PSYCHOLOGICAL FACTS.
j j j To return from this long, but not uncalled-for, digression to the im-
j ! mediate business of the Society. It is established for more important
purposes than that of a debating club. Papers and discussions are a
I; useful interchange of opinion by thoughtful minds. Science, however,
j must be based upon facts, or it is not science, and these facts must be
many and various, collected from many sources, and stamped with
j a sufficient assurance of authenticity. Psychology has been so long
j lagging in the rear because it was based upon metaphysical abstrac-
j tions and the deluding impressions of self-consciousness instead of ob-
j servations of objective phenomena, collected facts, and experimental
research. It was the admitted necessity for entering upon a new
I path, and pursuing psychology as the physical sciences have been so
ij successfully pursued, that this Society owes its existence; for it is
only through the machinery of a great and widely extended associa-
j tion that such a gathering of observed phenomena and reported experi-
j ment can be brought together.
j In this work, the primary purpose of its being, the Society has made
j good progress. Beports of observed psychological phenomena have
been publicly invited, and liberally supplied, from all parts of the
j civilised world. The reading of these is the first, and perhaps the
! most interesting business of our meetings, precisely as in other scientific
j societies the objects of their investigations are exhibited. As our
i/j brother and ally, “The Anthropological,” displays its skulls and its
j(! battle-axes—as the Pathological shows its gangrenes and its wens;
l.jj as the Entomological in this very room produces its beetles and its
| jj humble „bees, so do we collect reports from observers everywhere, who
i(j authenticate them to us, of the facts and phenomena that are the pro-
I!' j duct of the operation of one or more of the forces by which the mechanism
of man is moved and directed : life, mind, soul. Already there has been
brought together thus a large body of facts that settle some disputed
j questions by proofs far more numerous and conclusive than those upon
j which physical science has based its axioms. I will refer to one of
! many ; but it is a specimen of all. The existence of super-sensuous
perception—of mental perceptions by some other as yet undiscovered
j means than the ordinary media of the senses—is established by a mass
of evidence perfectly overwhelming. Yet was this phenomenon not
j long ago disputed and denied, declared to be a delusion or a cheat—its
i |f believers fools and dupes, and its subjects impostors or conjurers, until
j|| now we have the fact admitted by Dr. Carpenter himself, and pro-
jji claimed by a learned professor from the platform of the British As-
j (j sociation.
jjj We had hoped to have been enabled ere this to print the record of
Ii'j these collected facts, but the contributions we have received are care-
j. fully preserved for future publication, and we would earnestly entreat,
not a continuance merely, but a largely increased flow of such com¬
munications of observed phenomena from all who may have oppor¬
tunities for observation of them. Their occurrence m private families
j is by no means infrequent, but as they are often associated with ab-
j normal physical conditions, there is a natural reluctance to make them
j known. Let me repeat that all such reports are, if desired, received
and preserved in strict confidence with respect to names and places,
j and only such an authentication is required as may be necessary to
assure the council of the genuine character of the report. For
instance, it will suffice if the reporter of them to us is a person whose
assurance may be accepted that the facts are as reported, without
mention by him of names and localities ; but where privacy is not in¬
sisted upon we should, of course, prefer the full statement. In this
l manner some hundreds of important psychological phenomena might
be sent to us yearly for preservation in the record that must become
ultimately the solid basis of fact upon which alone psychological science
1 can be constructed for the future.
Nov. 10, 1876.
179
THE SP1IUTUALIST.
PSYCHOLOGY AT THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION.
Such are the events relating to the proceedings of this Society within
this room. I have now to refer to some incidents affecting psycho¬
logical science which have occurred since the opening of our last
session. They could not be omitted from an address which is designed
to be, however imperfectly, an annual review of the progress and
prospects of psychology.
The first and greatest of the events of the year was the discussion of
Professor Barrett’s paper before the British Association. It was a
narration, by a qualified observer, of some of the phenomena of arti¬
ficial somnambulism, notably instances of supersensuous perception.
This is a great step gained, for if supersensuous perception be a fact,
the conclusion is inevitable, that there is something in us having a
capacity for such perception, and that something other than the
material brain, which we know to work only through the material
mechanism of the senses. As a Society, we have nothing to do with
isms of any kind, nor do we venture to express, or even to form, any
judgment as to the causes of the phenomena we record. On these in¬
dividual members may have their own belief ; but the time is not yet
come for the Society to formulate theories or invent names. We must
be content to go on piling up facts until a foundation has been laid
broad enough and solid enough upon which to build a science.
THE ATTACK UPON I)R. SLADE.
The most important event of the year in its relation to psychology
has been the recent prosecution. Of the true motive for that pro¬
ceeding there can be no doubt. The pretence of public interests was
transparent. The public were not in any way concerned in the
matter, for the public were not appealed to. The scientific world, the
literary men, the editors of the journals, who were invited to witness
the phenomena said to occur, were surely very well able to take care of
themselves. The educated, the intelligent, and the wealthy, and not
the ignorant and the poor for whose protection the law was made, had
no need of the aegis of a police-court to save them from imposture.
The object really sought was plain enough. It was not to punish
Dr. Slade, but to discredit through him all psychological phenomena,
the proof of whose existence was destruction to the doctrines of
materialism. The desire and the design were to bring into discredit
the authority of Barrett, Wallace, Crookes, Lindsay, Rayleigh, and the
other members of the Royal Society, who have acknowledged the
reality of some, at least, of the psychological phenomena, and, above
all, to deter by dread of popular ridicule other persons from prose¬
cuting investigations which, if found to be true, they felt to be fatal to
their own reputations. But such hopes have been grievously disap¬
pointed. Whether Dr. Slade be or be not in all respects guilty or
guiltless, upon which it is no part of my duty to offer an opinion here,
certain it is that the trial has had the unlooked-for effect of directing
the attention of the whole public to the fact that phenomena are
asserted to exist, and by a great number of competent investigators
are declared to be true, and of the reality of which every person may,
if he pleases, satisfy himself by actual inspection, thus sweeping away
now and for ever the dark and debasing doctrines of the materialists.
True, there are differences of opinion between those who have been
convinced by examination and experiment as to the extent to which
these asserted phenomena are conclusively proved; there are, and
perhaps ever will be, differences of opinion as to the sources of the
power that is exhibited in these phenomena ; but whether they are the
product of the psychic force of the circle, as I and some others contend,
or if spirits of the dead be the agents, as others say, or elemental
spirits (whatever that may be), as asserted by a third party, this fact
at least is established—that man is not wholly material—that the
mechanism of man is moved and directed by some non-material—that
is, some non-molecular—structure, which possesses not merely intelli¬
gence, but can exercise also a force upon matter, that something to
which for lack of a better title we have given the name of soul. These
glad tidings have by this trial been borne to thousands and tens of
thousands whose happiness here and hopes of a hereafter have been
blighted by the materialists, who have preached so persistently that
soul was but a superstition, man but an automaton, mind but a secre¬
tion, present existence purely animal, and the future a blank.
Such an issue of an attempt to put down psychology by process of
law is a mighty triumph for our science, and will be commemorated
in its annals as a new starting point in its onward march.
We may, however, congratulate ourselves on a marked progress.
Investigation has been demanded by high authority, and notably by
the Spectator. It is now admitted that in the abnormal phenomena of
psychology there iS" something that deserves inquiry. The public call
for scientific examination has been already anticipated by the Society.
At the close of the last session an experimental committee was ap¬
pointed, whose business it will be to examine with requisite experi¬
ment and test all alleged psychological phenomena that may be sub¬
mitted to the notice of the Society, and to report the results of those
investigations. The committee will actively pursue its labours during
the present session.
TRUTH WILL NOT PREVAIL BY ITS OWN FORCE.
There is no more fatal fallacy than that truth will prevail by its own
force—that it has only to be seen to be embraced. In fact, the desire
for the actual truth exists in very few minds, and the capacity to discern
it in fewer still. When men say that they are seeking the truth, they
mean that they are looking for evidence to support some prejudice or
prepossession. Their beliefs are moulded to their wishes. They see
all, and more than all, that seems to tell for that which they desire;
they are blind as bats to whatever tells against them. The scientists
are not more exempt from this common failing than are others. As
psychologists, whose special study is the human mind and soul, we
also must emphatically recognise that weakness of our common nature,
and therefore it behoves us the more to keep watch and ward against
Kf its stealthy influence with ourselves. Individually we are all disposed
j | to see thi igs from our own point of view alone, and to colour them
j j with our own prepossessions, and to jump at hasty conclusions that
;(( square with our preformed impressions. But as a Society composed of
|)i men having a variety of conflicting views—which collectively, in its
in corporate capacity, can have no prejudices nor prepossessions—we may
j(j endeavour with some confidence to make search after the trnth, the
j)j whole truth, and nothing but the truth ; and having found it, to pro-
m claim it fearlessly, whether it be to exalt man to immortality or reduce
|(i him to a mollusc.
]|| Mr. Serjeant Cox thus closed his address, which was followed by a
I j shower of applause louder and longer than any ever hitherto given at
j(j the close of any paper read before the Psychological Society.
j(| THE DISCUSSION—UNCONSCIOUS PREPOSSESSION.
I>l Professor Plumtree rose to propose a resolution which he knew
i(i would meet with cordial approbation, namely, a unanimous vote of
thanks for the thoughtful, philosophical, and liberal address which had
\)\ been given that evening at the opening of the new session of the
i(j Psychological Society. The one object of that society was to discover
I I truth; the members did not come there with their minds biassed in
|)j any one direction; they had no preconceived opinions; they based
|(| their opinions upon facts, as well as upon the tests and experiments
It which they tried. If there was one task difficult above all others, it
)j was for men to free themselves from those unconscious prejudices
ji which seemed to enchain them during so many years of their mortal
(j lives. There was no gift more rare than that of being able to strip the
)| mind of all prepossessions, and to keep to the discovery of truth,
h (Hear, hear.) No matter what cherished ideas they gave up, their one
object should be to discover, in the midst of conflicts and warfare,
)j “truth,” and he asserted that the Psychological Society stood specially
(j in this respect upon high ground; the members had no preconceived
ij opinions to sustain, and would gladly give .up their most cherished
j)j convictions if it were proved that the judgment they had formed was
!(| an erroneous one. The learned president had said that the members
m of the society were “not teachers but learners”; they came to learn
j)j from nature, to gain from her fresh ideas, and thereupon to form fresh
fj| hypotheses. They summoned before them the wide world of mind and
jj matter, both in part and in correlation. He was glad that so wide an
[If interest had been manifested that evening that the hall was filled with
!(| as many friends as it could comfortably accommodate. No matter
|| what subject was introduced, he hoped that a full and free discussion
| would take place, and that in the one pursuit of the great idea,
j “truth,” all other objects would be swept away. (Applause.)
| Mr. Algernon Joy seconded the motion.
SHALL PRIESTS BE PROSECUTBD UNDER THE VAGRANCY ACT?
I Mr. Dunlop remarked that in the East he had seen a few of the
I phenomena known as mesmeric. He had tried to see soma of the
| phenomena known as spiritualistic, but, by some extraordinary means,
i had never witnessed them—perhaps from the sceptical nature of his
| mind ; yet these phenomena had been seen by some of his own most
intimate friends. He was glad that his friend the president had the
; courage of his convictions, that he was ready to speak them out, and,
| if necessary, to stand in a minority of one. (Applause.) Their presi-
I dent thought that a man had been unfairly treated, and, instead of
! keeping silent, as many who knew the same things had done, he had
| made his voice heard. At the same time, he had a judicial mind, and
I he (Mr. Dunlop) was sure that if the Slade case came before Mr.
| Serjeant Cox as judge, he would be able to lay aside all prejudices, and
j to give a fair judicial decision upon what came before him. In the
j East, men were pitchforked into judicial positions, and he had ha l
| mesmeric cases brought before him. Instead of having had a long
j, legal training like English barristers, men there stepped into judicial
positions from fiscal charges, and perhaps from heading a volunteer
j corps during a mutiny. (Laughter.) Still, they were able to lay aside
| their prejudices. Frequently had the story of the poor plaintiff made
| him burn with indignation, and, after bearing one side, it was difficult
| to get into a judicial state of mind. If there were an appeal in Slade’s
j case, the matter would come before their friend the President of the
I Psychological Society, and, if it did, he would give as fair a judicial
| decision as if he knew nothing at all about the subject. The question
| was, “ Had a subtle device been used to bring about a false belief ? ”
| If so, scarcely a priest of any religion under the sun could hold his
| ground. . (Hear, hear, and applause.) Masses were said, and money
id paid for them, in order that people might leave purgatory earlier than
j<| they otherwise would do. (Hear, hear.) The Council had had a dis-*
1)} cussion as to whether the debates of the Society should be reported,
l(| and, if so, whether the speakers should correct their own sayings. He
K! thought that they should do so, for if he said at a meeting what came
j)j uppermost in his mind, he might next day have a different opinion.
j(l He hoped they would always have difference of opinion; and, although
K| the'president in his address had been very hard upon materialists, he
[)] hoped that some materialists would always be present at their meet-
i | ings, and hold seats upon the Council.
i(i Mr. C. J. Cooper was struck with the different meanings which had
i>| been given to the word “psychology.” He thought that the subject
I was one which would not altogether exclude people of materialistic
sympathies, and that it was at present in an empirical stage. He
thought that the Society had not yet advanced sufficiently to form an
opinion as to the nature of the soul, while admitting the existence of
certain mental facts. He thought that the word “ soul ” bore the old
| Greek meaning, namely, the “life principle.”
Mr. Clayden said that the soul operated in two ways—inside itself
i and outside itself. In the latter case it controlled the mechanism of
man. Mr. Cooper seemed to think that the paper limited it to the
latter sphere of operations. Others supposed that psychology had re¬
ference only to the internal, but the Society said that in somnam-
180
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 10, 1876.
bulism, and in various ways, the soul acted upon the body by methods
not yet understood.
PAID MEDIUMS.
Major Hartley remarked that Mr. Cooper had made a mistake in
going to the old Greek word “psyche,” the “ life principle; ” they
could not limit themselves to the original meaning of a word in
another language, especially when that language was used by people
who had different methods of thought to our own. He thought that
psychology should mean “ the science of the investigation of the soul.”
One party said there was a soul, another party that there was not a soul;
consequently, in their debates, there was an opening for materialists,
and even upon the Council of the Psychological Society. He thought
it to be a little unfortunate that the late prosecution which had taken
place should be mixed up with that Society at all. He should be very
sorry indeed if it were supposed that the Society identified itself with
any particular view; at the same time he admitted that there was a
difficulty in avoiding the subject. The best evidence of the operation
of the soul outside itself, supposing these phenomena to be true, would
not be found in cases where money was paid. He thought that private
mediums would overcome all the difficulties in the shape of insults,
impertinent curiosity, and evil speaking, which were found to beset
them, and to such persons that Society ought to open its arms most
enthusiastically. The Society did not wish to save its funds, but to get
rid of the argument of money as a motive, and to reduce the tempta¬
tion to mediums to show phenomena of another kind when they could
not get those which were real. At present they were tempted; they
gave stances for a particular purpose, and when they could not show
the real thing they might show the other. If he possessed the gift of
mediumship he should not like to make a living out of it; however
poor he was he should never make any money by it.
Major Owen said that although Mr. Dunlop could not get any of
the phenomena, he seemed to have had most remarkable phenomena
himself.
Major Hartley said that nothing of that sort had ever happened to
him. He had been in the Holy Land, and up the Nile, but had ex¬
perienced nothing more of a psychological nature than if he had gone
to Margate.
Major Owen remarked that everybody he knew who possessed some
medial power, had admitted that that power had been enlarged or
developed by sitting with him ; they may have hoaxed him when they
told him so—it was for them to bear witness on that point—but if any
person wished to try the experiment, let them send in their names to
the society.
THE CONSTITUTION OP THE EXPERIMENTAL COMMITTEE.
Mr. Blumer thought that no report of the Investigating Committee
of the Society would be satisfactory to outsiders, unless some material¬
ists took part in the observations ; this rule was applicable both to an
individual or to a body acting in a judicial capacity, therefore any
Investigating Committee, to possess weight, must consist of men of
different opinions. The world would then attach greater importance
to the results than they would to those obtained by a committee which
started with preconceived opinions as to whether a man possessed a
soul or whether he did not.
Mr. Gordon agreed with the last speaker. It might be interesting
to the members of the Society to know that some of the members of
the Investigating Committee had strong materialistic tendencies. If
he might represent a grievance he thought that their president had
treated one section of deep-thinking men very harshly that evening.
He thought that Mr. Serjeant Cox had almost exhausted all the art of
rhetoric to cover professors of materialism with obloquy. After all,
psychology was a new science altogether, and the vast held of research
before it was like the interior of Africa or the Polar Sea; at every
fresh step they took they did not know whether they would stand upon
firm ground or plunge into a morass, so he thought that they should be
slow and careful in throwing aside the accumulated experience of man¬
kind. After the experience of two thousand years or more to the
contrary, the society was about to consider facts never before believed
in (No, no.)
The President: Never before disbelieved in. (Applause.)
Mr. Gordon continued that at all events the miracles of the churches
rested upon such a slender basis of historical evidence, admitted to be
unworthy of credence, that the reality of these new facts could not be
accepted. In the attempt to overthrow materialism they should be
careful that every step they took was based upon solid fact. He
sympathised with Mr. Dunlop ; his experience had given him no evi¬
dence of an entirely new force, although he had had opportunities of
observing. The whole matter was such an out-of-the-way and new
thing, that on d priori grounds the assertions of everybody should be
received with great caution. All the thoughts of the time were tend¬
ing more and more in the direction of materialism, and he had flung
aside many of the ideas of his forefathers because he had discovered
that they did not rest upon reliable evidence ; still, he believed that
many materialists would be glad to find a basis of fact on which they
could build up a belief in the immortality of the soul. (Applause.)
Mr. F. K. Munton said that he should be the last man to speak upon
the subject of the late trial, still he wished to say that Mr. Serjeant
Cox was not at all likely to preside over the court during the hearing
of Dr. Slade’s appeal. The President had touched upon the ignorance
of many people on the subject of psychology, and his experience was
that the majority of persons knew nothing about it, but were very
ready in the first instance to say that they knew everything connected
with the subject; they were always ready to give their opinions at
once. He knew most of the members of that Society, and at least
half of them were of opinion at the outset that there was no use in
joining it, because they knew all about the subject already ; since then
they had discovered it to be one of the finest of studies, and a most in¬
teresting subject, which they had entirely neglected throughout their
lives. One of the best things that Society had done had been to induce
j people to read books upon psychology, and in bringing about this
i amount of study good work had been done to the community.
The President, in returning thanks, and in replying to the various
speakers, agreed with Mr. Gordon and Mr. Cooper to a great extent.
His attack upon materialists did not apply to those who were willing
to investigate, but to those men who had accepted a dogma, who had
come to a final conclusion that materialism was the highest stage to
which man could arrive, and who would look at no evidence, argument,
or facts which tended to negative their foregone conclusions. He
meant by p psychology ” the forces which moved the body of man.
The Society had to examine those forces, and to learn their sources.
It had not even assumed that man possessed a soul, but that he was
moved by some intelligent force. The discussions were not limited to
a few questions, as some of the speakers seemed to suppose.
Mr. Munton then put to the meeting the vote of thanks to the pre¬
sident, which was carried with acclamation.
Next Thursday Mr. C. C. Massey will read a paper before the Psy¬
chological Society, on “ Some Applications of the Theory of Uncon¬
scious Cerebration.”
TURKISH ATROCITIES.
APPEAL TO SPIRITUALISTS.
Committee.
Sir Ohas. Isham, Bart.
Keningale Cook, Esq., LL.D.
W. E. Corner, Esq.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq.
G. Desmond Frrz-Gerald, Esq.
Mrs. Desmond Fitz-Gerald.
Colonel Greck, M.I.C.E.
Algernon Joy, Esq., M.I.C.E
Miss Kislingbury.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.
Mrs. Michell.
A. C. Swinton Esq.
LIST OF DONATIONS.
£. s. d.
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq   7 0 0
Col. Greck, M.I.C.E  5 5 0
C. Blackburn, Esq  50 0
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq     2 2 0
A. C. Swinton, Esq    220
Algernon Joy, Esq.      2 0 0
Mrs. Tebb     110
K. G.   *  110
A. R. Wallace, Esq  10 0
Theo. Taunton, Esq  1 0 0
F. W. Wilby, Esq  0 3 6
Collection, Doughty Hall, Sept. 24th 12 13 6
Proceeds Mrs. Olive’s stance  2 16 0
Forwarded to Lady Strangford’s Fund, and
acknowledged in the Daily News of the 28th
October  £43 4 0
Not yet received—
Sir Charles Isham     10 0 0
Proceeds Miss LeighHunt’sLecture 0 16 0 10 16 0
£54 0 0
Donations may be forwarded to Theo. Taunton, Hon. Secretary,
Raymond Lodge, Versailles-road, Anerley, Surrey, S.E,
Archbold, in his Justice of the Peace, says:—“A trick of hgerde-
main is not palmistry.”
Mr. W. Eglinton is at the Hague, where he has been well received
by the Dutch Spiritualists.
Spiritualism in Liverpool.—On Sunday, November 12th, Mr. J. J.
Morse will give two trance addresses at the Meyerbeer Hall, Liverpool.
Oh Sunday, the 19th, Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy will lecture on “ The Spirit¬
ualism of the Poets,” and on the 26th instant Dr. Hitchman will deliver
an address on “Heart and Head.” The lectures continue to be well
attended.
Dr. Monck.—Dr. Monck, who possesses real medial powers, but at
the same time is attacked at Huddersfield by Spiritualists, among others,
on the supposition that he has supplemented them by imposture, has
been again remanded. The Times of Monday last says:—“ On Friday,
at the Huddersfield Police-court, the Rev. Francis Ward Monck, ‘ Spirit¬
ualist medium,’ was brought up, on remand, charged under the Vagrant
Act with using subtle means and devices to impose on Her Majesty’s sub*
jects on the 23rd of October. Mr. Armitage again appeared for the
prisoner. Mr. Hilton, chief constable, applied for a remand for a week,
on the ground that he had not had time to get up evidence. He stated
that the prisoner had not been admitted to bail, because another warrant
was out against him, and the peisons who offered themselves as sureties
withdrew their offer on that account. A horse and carriage said to be
kept by the prisoner were worth only £14. His yacht was an old fishing-
boat, of which he was part owner. It was filled with sand, and the tide
had washed over it in the river Avon three or four years. He had no
money, except that which he received from the people on whom he im¬
posed. The chief constable, therefore, asked that the sureties might be
increased. Mr. Armitage opposed the application, on the ground that
the police had had ample time to get up their case. He urged that there
was really no case to answer, and that there was no reason why the sure¬
ties should be increased. If the prisoner were now admitted to bail, and
apprehended on the warrant from Keighley, he should get bail there, and
the bench would thus hold a double bail over him. The prisoner said he
could prove that he had kept two carriages and two yachts. The Bench
remanded the prisoner for a week, increasing the amount of the sureties
from £100 to £200 each. There were several Spiritualist friends of the
prisoner from different towns in court.”
Nov. 10, 1876,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Kepresenting the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting land well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM,'by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism. 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIBITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G-.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 6s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
* facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this hook,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains. Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and condicions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—"Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man m the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
franted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
he light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 6s. 6d.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and (Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Sims; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit: Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. I2mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s 6d.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this hook in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the Mliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of aftrumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Yala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7a. fid. .
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediuraship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. fid. '
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s fid
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS ; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, fis. fid
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. Gd.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOKOFMEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENOE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 16s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Wilting Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS; A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record ot Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORT
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism, fis.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. J ame? Smith
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald” (2 Vols.) 10s
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The Teacher.
The Seer.
The Reformer.
The Thinker.
The “ Poughkeepsie Sees'."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
'he Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
“ - ' „ II.
„IH. „ .
„ IV. „ . ,
,. V. „ .
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest . .
Approaching Crisis; or. Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual
Death and the After-Life
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health ....
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for Che Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures ....
s. d.
16 0
7 6
6
6
6
7 0
2 0
3 0
3 6
7 6
3 C
7 8
2 0
3 6
7 8
8 0
7 6
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
d,
. 24 0
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER By 0. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1766. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences, (Pub, at 7s, fid.) 4s..
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ....
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by Thb Spiritualist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . ' . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.A, Trm. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 10 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Transited into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske. M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . ,20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . • 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by tbe Rev. John Pam, B.A. . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . ... . . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S.
Special edition for Schools . , , . 1 e
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
3 Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Dcten; 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs, Conant.
CART E DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Iract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas P.
Hazard, fid.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Ado]vbus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” Gd.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. 0. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Leetures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr E. T.
Hallock. 2s.
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 10, 1876,
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM. PSYCHOLOGY
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spritualist News-
8per Branch Office, 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
ondon, 'W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publislilng business, are not in any way connected with each
other.]
Price 7s, fid., cloth.
POEMS FROM THE INNER LIFE. By
LIZZIE DOTEN. Tenth edition. This volume opens
with the wonderful experiences of the author, who is pecu¬
liarly gifted as a trance medium and public speaker. Her
platform labours have for a long time been unceasing, and the
deep religious and spiritual tone of her discourses have ex¬
tended her influence far beyond the limit of her voice, through
the instrumentality of the press. This volume contains the
gems of the inspirational utterances, given chiefly before
public audiences, under direct spirit influence. Several of
them are attributed to the spirit of Edgar A. Poe. They have
the. rhythmic beauty, grandeur, and imagery of his produc¬
tions in earth-life. The Biographical Introduction gives a
succinct account of the means by which these poems are given
to the world. The peculiar influence which each spirit exer¬
cised over the medium is stated, and the unmistakable cer¬
tainty and significance of this higher phase of spiritual com¬
munion ispourtrayed. The book is a valuable addition to the
evidences in favour of spirit intercourse and of its ennobling
tendencies.—Boston, U.S : COLBY and Rich. London Spirit-
uali't Office.
Published at 7s. fid. Reduced to 4s.
Mesmerism, animal magnetism,
and SOMNAMBULISM, with experiments and obser¬
vations, alsd illustrative instances of analogous phenomena
occurring spontaneously, and an appendix of corroborative
facts, by
EDWIN LEE, M.D.,
Corresponding Member of the Medical Association of Prussia,
the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, the medical
academies of Palis, Berlin, Munich, Brussels, Madrid, Turin,
and Florence.
The Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts and
Sciences, awarded the prize offered for competition to Dr.
Lee for the above work on mesmerism and clairvoyance.
It is recorded in the life of Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, that he
said:—“I should like to hear something fresh about animal
magnetism, which has always elicited my curiosity. What
our fathers have done still leaves an enormous deal for us to
do. The theory of life itself probably lies within our know¬
ledge. We perceive the connection of nerves with the opera¬
tions of mind, but we cannot understand a thinking, a seeing,
or a hearing nerve. Here, and in many other points there is
room for infinite discovery, to say nothing of the wonderful
phenomena of animal magnetism, which only Englishmen, with
their accustomed ignorance, are apt to laugh at, but which no
one as yet has either thoroughly ascertained or explained.
Published by Longmans at 7s. fid. Reduced in price to 4s.
Inland Postage, 4d. Spiritualist Nawapaper Branch Office.
ANNALI DELLO SPIRTTISMO IN ITALIA.
. —Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.
PIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—Newspaper
Branch Office.
THE MEDIUMS’ BOOK; OR, GUIDE FOR
MEDIUMS AND FOR EVOCATION. Containing the
Theoretic Teaching of Spirits concerning all kinds of manifes¬
tations, &c., &c. By Allan Kardeo. Translated by Anna
Blackwell. Crown 8vo, pp. 476, cloth, 7s. fid." ,
REFLEXIONEN aus DER GEISTER-
WELT. A Monthly Record of Trance, Spoken, and
Written Communications given at the meetings of the Buda-
Pesth Society of Spiritual Inquirers. Price Is. monthly. Buda-
Pesth: Josefstadt, 23, Erzherzog Alexander Qasse. London:
The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
Another Work on Occult Spiritism,
By the Author of
‘‘ART MAGIC.”
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten begs to announce that she has
been privileged to prepare for the Press another work by the
Author of Art Magic, entitled
GHOST-LAND;
Or,
Researches into the Mysteries of Occult Spiritism.
NEW WORKS OF M. CHARLES GOUNOD.
PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
89, Great Marlborough Street.
ON THE SEA OF GALILEE. Arranged by E. TlNlL as a
Pianoforte Duet and Vocal Solo. Price 6s.
LA VENEZIANA. Pianoforte Solo, 4s.
FETE DE JUPITER. Grand March, 4s.
OFFERTORIUM. For Organ, 4s.
JOAN OF ARO. French Vocal Score, 10s.
BALLAD OF THE PAGE, English and French words, 4s.
Also A SERIES OF SEVEN DUETS containing the Prin¬
cipal Music, arranged by the composer expressly for Her
Majesty the Queen and H.R.H. Princess Beatrice. Nos. 1
and 2, price 2s. fid. each. Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, price fis.
each.
ILALA, May, 1874. Words by Lord Houghton, written in-
commemoration of David Livingstone, 4s.
My True Love hath My Heart, 4s.
Chidiock Tichborne, 4s.
Go, Lovely Rose, 4s.
A Series of 12 Part Songs, fid. each. Special arrangements
made to Choral Societies.
NEW WORKS PUBLISHED BY THE
MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION.
MISS TREHERNE (MRS. WELDON).—The Brook, words
by Tennyson, 4s. Hier au Soir, words by Victor Hugo
(English words by Mrs. Eric Baker), 4s.
ALFRED RAWLINGS.—Lullaby, words by Bradwyn Brad-
wen, 4s. Beware, words by Longfellow, 4s. Part-song,
To the Cuckoo, fid.
JOHN URICH.—Bagatelle, words by T. Hood, 4s. Venetian
Barcarola, 4s. Pity the Wives at Home (sailor song), dedi¬
cated to Samuel Plimsoll, Esq., M.P., 4s. Mazurka, 4s.
F. OLAY.—Enid’s Song. 4s. Elaine’s Song, 4s. Vivien’s
Song, 4s. Guinevere’s Song, 4s. Mary’s Song, 4s. There
is no Flock (Resignation), 4s. Sands of Dee, 4s.
HAMILTON CLARKE.—Serenade for Pianoforte, 4s. Ditto,
arranged as a Duet for Pianoforte, 5s. Two Voices: a Song,
4s.
ALFRED CELLIER.—Flower Girl: a Song, 4s.
KJERULF.—On the Heather; Danish Melody.
Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Quadrilles, with Portrait of Mrs.
Weldon, arranged from Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book, by
Mrs. Weldon, 4s.
Subscribers’ Names received for Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme
Book—Subscribers, 5s.; Non-Subscribers, 7s. fid.
All the music published by the Music and Art
Association, 39, Great Marlborough-street, is sold for the
benefit of Mrs. Weldon's Orphanage.
A List of Works sent post-free on application.
THE MANAGER, MUSIC AND ART ASSOCIATION,
39, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.C.
The long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mbs. A. C. Burke.
By Royal Letter* Patent.
“KRINE COSMETIC,’’ THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HA IT?,, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace or
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
rlhe above fact renders THE “KRINE COSMETIC” an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 8s. fid. per Bottle.
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 21, Charing-cross,
London, S.W.; or of Mr. JOHN ROUSE, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.
DR. SLADE.
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES.
MR. T. P. BAREAS, F.G.S.,
Begs to announce that he proposes to deliver a series of SIX
POPULAR SCIENTIFIC LECTURES, in the Lecture Room,
Nelson-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne, on the Thursday evening*
of each week, commencing shortly.
Doors open each evening at 7 o’clock; Chair to be taken
at 7.801
LECTURE I.—The Worshipful the Mayor will preside.
Subject—“ The Scientific Principles involved in raising the
Vanguard, and a criticism of the methods proposed.”
LECTURE II.—Thos. Foster, Esq., Sheriff of Newcastle, will
preside. Subject—“Pneumatics; or, the Laws and Pro¬
perties of Air and other Gases, with remarks on the Navi¬
gation of the Air.”
LECTURE IIL—Councillor H. W. Newton will preside.
Subject—“ The Structure and Functions of the Brain and
Nervous System, comparative and human.”
LECTURE IV.—Councillor J. 0. Scott will preside. Subject—
“ The Latest News from the Stars.”
LECTURE V.—Councillor W. Stewart will preside. Subject—
“ Heat: its History and Philosophy.”
LECTURE VI.—Alderman Gregson will preside. Subject—
“ Heat: its Modern Applications.”
These Lectures will occupy about one hour each, and at the
conclusion of each Lecture, relevant questions will he
answered.
The Lectures will he illustrated by diagrams and models.
Terms of Admission by Ticket, to be had of Mr. Barkas, Art
Gallery, and Mr. Blake,’49, Grainger-street. Front Seats, 2s. fid.
the course; Unreserved Seats, Is. fid. the course.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF
INQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
QUEBEC HALL,
25, Great Quebec Street, Marylebone Road.
October t>th, 1876.
At the Committee Meeting of the above Association, held in
their Hall on Thursday, the 5th inst., it was proposed, “ That
at the next quarterly meeting of the Association to be held on
Sunday, November the 2Gth, a Conference of metropolitan
societies be convened for the purpose of co-operation and
expressing fraternal greetings.” In order that the proceedings
may he conducted in a systematic manner, a meeting will be
held on Thursday, the 19th inst., at the above hall, at 7 p.m.
for 8 pm. All Spiritualists interested are cordially invited to
be present; those unable to do so by kindly communicating
with the secretaries their opinion will be put before the
meeting.
W. O. DRAKE, & G. F. TILBY, Hon. Sect.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
President.
HENRY D. JENOKEN, ESQ., M.R.L
(Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
V ioe-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
COUHOIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts afleeting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by vanous means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental stances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.46 p.m. The fast Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special stances with professional media, lectures, discus¬
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances. Members of tha
Association have the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums, on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “for
formation of circles and conduct of seances," and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary.
Subscription for Ordinary Membership:—Animal, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s. All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can becoma
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
Cjj* lUixrspp-er.
Illustrated in a series of autobiographical papers, with
extracts from the records of
MAGICAL SEANCES, &0., &0.
Translated and edited by Emma Hardinge Britten.
This magnificent and thrilling record of spiritual experiences
was prepared for and commenced in the Western Star some
four years ago. Since the suspension of that periodical—
necessitated by the Boston fires—Mrs. Hardinge Britten has
been repeatedly solicited to publish the admired and fasci¬
nating “ Ghost Land ” papers in a connected series. The great
demand for another hook from the author of Art Magic, the
earnest desire of the subscribers to that celebrated work to
know more about its author, and the interest which exists at
the present hour in philosophical and progressive views of
Spiritualism, combine to induce the Editor to put forth the
present highly instructive and wonderful volume, with the
special view of meeting the above requirements.
Price 12s.. Orders maybe sent to W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.O.
O PUBLISHERS’ ASSISTANTS.—Wanted,
An intelligent ASSISTANT, aged about 16, experienced
in publishing work, and quick at accounts. Apply, stating
terms, and in own handwriting, to W. H. Harrison, 38, Great
Russell-street, London, W.C.
“ THE SPIRITUALIST” OF Sept. 29th CONTAINS
ALL THE EVIDENCE ON BOTH SIDES,
HIGH was given for .and against Dr. Slade
in the Times newspaper. It contains a reprint of
the letters in the Times from Professor Lankester, F.R.S.; Dr.
H. B. Donkin; Colonel Lane Fox, president of the Anthro¬
pological Institute; Dr. Carter Blake; Mr. C. C. Massey,
barrister-at-law; Mr. J. A. Clarke; Mr. A. R. Wallace,
F.R.G.S.; Mr. A. Joy, M.Inst.C.E.; Mr. G. C. Joad; Mr. Park
Harrison; Mr. Serjeant Cox; Professor Barrett, and Dr.
Siade.—2jd., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
Just published, a New Song.
EMEMBRANCE (embossed title), 4s. in A
flat for contralto or baritone, and in O for soprano or
tenor. Woids by W. H. Parker. Sung by Miss Laura
Matthews, Miss Hellier, Mr. R. Odell, and Mr. Sidney Barber.
Also the Snowdrop Mazurka and Dewdrop Redowas (second
edition), each 3s., by the same composer. To be had of all
Music-sellers, and of the Author and Publisher, post free, at
half price. Copyrights reserved. A few second-hand piano¬
fortes for sale, from £5 to £18. N. Vickery, Professor of
Music, 9, Cambridge-tenace, Railton-road, Heme-hill, S,E.
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
v-l crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition Ten initial letters or
figures count as on# word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usuallr tom up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications tor the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. Harrison. 38, Great Russell-street,
London: and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wedietday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
N o notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist ” will be posted for one year, post
free, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s lOd.
City Publishing Office, K W. Allen’s. 11, Are Maria-lane, London,
E.O.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holhorn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, W. Allin, Aye
Maria-lane, London, E.O,
