AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 153.—(Voii. VII.—No. 5.) LONDON: JULY 30, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
A Medium of the Last Century v ...    49
African Jugglers. By St. George W. Stock, M.A., (Oxon)   50
Materialisation Phenomena and their Uses  51
Spiritualism in Foreign Countries   52
Seanc* at the Brixton Psychological Society. By Desmond G. Fitz¬
Gerald, Member of the Institution of Telegraph Engineers   52
The Insanity of Mr. Dale Owen   ■  63
Last Week’s Soiree  '    54
Powerful Mediumship of a Child  • ...   54
Buguet’s False Charges Proved by his own Letters    55
The Trial of M. Leymarie  55
A Seance with Mrs. flardy     55
Poetry:—Parting     53
Correspondence:—The Materialisation of Recognisable Spirits in Paris
—The Press on Spiritualism—Spiritualism in Liverpool—Spirit¬
ualism in East London—Our Dreams and other Illusions—A
Remarkable Case of Clairvoyance, Fifteen Bales of Cotton Found
in France—Angels Seen and Heard Playing and Singing round a
Death-bed in Devonshire—To philologists—Private Seances in
Manchester—The Influence of Purity of the Body upon the Purity
of the1 Spirit     .... 56
Beecher and Spirits    ... ...     '60
Answers to Correspondents  ' ...   60
Paragraphs:—Channel Island Superstitions, 51; Dr. Sexton at Caven¬
dish Rooms, 65; Mrs. Seaver’s Baby. 55; Allan Kardec’s Spirits’
Book, 59; A Gift to the Banner of Light, 59; Freaks of Jesre Shep¬
pard, 59; Mediums Wanted at St. Petersburg, 60; Spiritualism
in Brighton, 60; Aid for Mr. Firman  60
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to thevbeneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five shillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may he obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Ecu a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
WORKS BY THOMAS LAKE HARRIS.
THE GREAT REPUBLIC: a Poem of the Sun. 6s.
THE BREATH OF GOD WITH MAN. Is. 6d.
ARCANA OF CHRISTIANITY; The Apocalypse. Vol. I. 6s. 6d.
THE MILLENNIAL AGE. 2s. 6d.
LONDON SERIES OF SERMONS. Is.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELI#SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance-room, can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the sum of £20 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject
The probable effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition of Society.
Second Prize, £10.
The competition is open to all British born or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists
The essays to be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875, to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C., of
whom further particulars can be had on application.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
BY ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackwell.
Price 7s. 6d. Postage 3d.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.
Wholesale and Retail by John Thomson, 39, John-street, Glasgow.
Sold also by MRS. Connor, 15, Fairclough-lane, Liverpool.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on applies;: on.
Lately Published, Crown 8vo., Price 3s. 6d.,
SON, REMEMBER; An Essay on the Discipline of the
Soul beyond the Grave. By the Rev. John Paul, Rector of St
Alban’s, Worcester.
“ Such a work will be warmly welcomed by all Spiritualists, and esp
cially by those who seek and find in Spiritualism a firm basis for m
and religious teaching.”—Spiritualist, March 25th. 1875.
Published by H, K. Lewis, 136, Gower-street, London.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 30, 1875.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Chftries, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Oalder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, "West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fiiz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21. Green-street Grosvenor-square, "W.
Gully, J. M., M.U., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.E.C.S.. 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood. Mrs., 62, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I. Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Bamsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin B, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Fincbley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P.. Derby House Bel per.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E,, 1. King Ed ward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-rbad, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Collev, Rev. Thos.. 11, Belle Yue terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Kepingale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road Blaokheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everict, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder's-Mll, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 84, Walnut-s reet, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixt.on, S.W.
Fitz-uerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckh-tm Rye, S.E.
Gale, Bichard 9, WOberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4. Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys. H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64. Seymour-sti eet, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Ba>swater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovf 11, Alfred E.. 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, >haftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawsoo, Wm. Brvham, 1, King-square, Gosovell-road, E.O.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., Warwick-cottagv, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
No?worthy, Mrs.. 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C. T., M.R.O.S., 19, N ottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk. N.W.
Pearce, Richard, Perey-cottage, Pellatt-grove, Wood-green, N.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchl-y, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendou-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George, M.A, LL D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, old Kent-road., S.E
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
.Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale CeWral-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Rendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
WiLon, D. H.. M.A.. LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., an i 3, Altenburg-terrace, Olapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1. The Elms. St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
~ Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein. Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.1.1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
Pacha Ahmed Rassim, Khande Rassim Pacha, h Bahdje' Capousson, Con-
stan'inople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Grat*,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirkiuclr-Holmfeld, Pinheberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ohamps-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Ohamps-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 356, West Thirty-second-street, New York,
U.S.A
A. J. Riko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
O. Constant, Esq.. Hotel St. M-trc, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor O. Wittig, Esq., Nurnherger Strasse 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Meloourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille Paris.
Epeu Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq,, M.D., 634 Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M F. Olavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria,
G. L. Ditson, Esq.. M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq , 11, Rue d’4nieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee. U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq, 9 Mon gomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaust-ee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut,-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Edward Hope, Esq.,
74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magne ique. Secretary—M." Charles Fritz, 67, Rue du
67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
MU. C. E. WILLIAMS, Professional Medium, is at
present on the Continent. Letters addressed to him at 6i, Lambs
Oondair-street, Holborn, London, will be forwarded.
Mrs. woodporde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediujnship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saiurdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
PROFESSOR REGAN, ELECTRO-MAGNETIC
HEALER, is now open to give treatment to Patients at his resi--
dence, or their own, by appointment. Fee, One Guinea. Address 59, Fin-
boro’-road, Betel iff e-gardens, fc-ouch Kensington.
ISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDIOAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-ruad, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
T V. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth. Av., New Y ’rk. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. RttairTSR your Letters
1%/TR. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
xYjL is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon as engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
IO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Mon-y refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MRS. OLIVE, SPIRIT MEDIUM, 49, BELMONT-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests. Businessand Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terrris for private Srance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DLDIER, Professor
of Curative Mesmerism (iO Years Established), attends patients
daily, from 2 till 6, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indi -ation < f their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tykrman,
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
nd all Australian Booksellers.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published op
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathedrals, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
O EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
JLV fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
VOLUJVIE JBEVEjN. JMUJVIBER FIVE.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 30th, 1876.
Cjr*
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSThree shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Eeduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oobrbspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
ban a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
communications for the Literary Department should be addressed to the
Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. 10d.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply oj 11 The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E. C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the branch office of
Mr. J. Selwood, 88, Gieat Russell-street, London, W.O., by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total1 cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
HE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection wi h their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F. R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Mr. H. G. Atkinson,
F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay: the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston. U.S); Sir Charles Islam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St, Petersborgh); ihe Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Tern pieman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Sony wood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason : Mr. N. Fabyan Da we;
Herr Christian Reimers; Mr. Wm. White (author of the Life of Swedenborg);
Mr. J. M. Gully. M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jetcken, M.R.I., Barris*-
ter-at Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr. 0.
Constant (Smvrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury ; Mi-s A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
HERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Price 3s.
London.—Simpkin, Marshall* Co.
A MEDIUM OF THE LAST CENTURY.
The memory of some of the remarkable mediums of
past days may well be recalled, now that there is some
chance of their being .understood. There are few
points on which ignorance, prejudice, and misapprehen¬
sion have combined to occasion more loss and obscurity
than on this subject. Mediumship of old was, more
emphatically than invention or science, a thing before
its time—-little better can be said of it, indeed, to-day.
In mediaeval times any unusual amount of learning or
knowledge was ascribed to supernatural, usually
diabolical aid, and scholar, philosopher, and medium
were placed in the same category. It would be a
curious and difficult undertaking to distinguish among
celebrated names of old who were scholars and
savans, pure and simple, and those who were aided
and influenced, more or less, by mediumistic power. In
the former Roger Bacon, Albertus Magnus, and Duns
Scotus may be ranged as representing the Tyndalls and the
Huxleys of their day; and Cordan, Cornelius Agrippa,
Trithemius, and Paracelsus among the latter; but all
alike were popularly held to derive their knowledge
from supernatural agency. A person in those days
endowed with medial powers must have frequently been
sorely perplexed, the more so according to fineness of
nature and religious instincts. Often the possessors
might view their powers with horror and refer them to
infernal possession, and doubtless many a strangely
harassed life, unspeakable mental struggles, and fearful
questionings have passed unrecorded and unknown.
We will now mention an individual who lived near our
own days, who, apparently distinguished for nothing
else, must have been an extraordinarily strong medium.
Schrepfer was a native of Leipsic where in after¬
life he kept a cafe. He asserted himself to be iu con¬
tinual intercourse with spirits, whom he could control
and summon at pleasure; he distinguished them into
friendly and evil, and the approach of each was heralded
by particular sounds. He is said to have frequently
given astonishing proofs of his power, but the most
famous instance was that in which Prince Charles of
Saxony with much difficulty prevailed upon him to
present in visible form the spirit of the Chevalier de
Saxe, one of the natural sons of Augustus II., King of
Poland, and half-brother to the famous Marshal Count
Saxe. He was uncle to Prince Charles, and having
amassed enormous wealth and died without issue, it was
reported that vast sums belonging to him were concealed
in the palace. Curiosity therefore combined with
avarice in prompting Prince Charles to endeavour
to gain an interview with the spirit of his uncle.
Schrepfer, with much repugnance, for he represented
such an undertaking as dangerous to himself, was
prevailed upon to make the attempt. A company,
nineteen in number, assembled by night in the great
gallery of Prince Charles’s palace in Dresden, and all
doors and windows were carefully secured by Schrepfer’s
directions. Lights were extinguished, and Schrepfer,
50
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 30, 1875.
after warning the company that the event might try
their nerves, retired into a corner, and, after a long
interval, passed into a convulsive and agitated state,
when a nbise was soon heard more like wet fingers
drawn over the edge of glasses than anything else.
Presently very frightful sounds followed, and the com¬
pany being much aghast, the principal door suddenly
opened with violence, and something that resembled a
black ball or globe rolled into the gallery. It was
invested with smoke or cloud, in the midst of which
appeared a face like that of the Chevalier de Saxe,
from which a loud and angry voice exclaimed in Ger¬
man, “ Carl, was wolt du mit mich?”—“ Charles, what
uouldst thou with met" *
The Prince and company were utterly horrified, and,
losing all self-possession, called on Heaven for help,
and besought Schrepfer to dismiss the apparition ; but
this he was unable, or pretended to be unable to do,
and those present declared that nearly an hour elapsed
before it could be compelled to retreat. And when at
length it had gone, and the company were recovering,
the door burst open again, and the same hideous form
again presented itself! The boldest were not proof
against this, and a scene of utter horror and dismay
ensued, till Schrepfer at length contrived finally to
dismiss the apparition.
Of the nineteen persons who witnessed this fear¬
ful sight, three afterwards published some ac¬
count, though none liked to make it a subject of
conversation, and the horror impressed upon them
was never forgotten throughout life. The story
was once well known throughout Europe. Byron
alludes to it at the end of the last canto of Don Juan.
Schrepfer afterwards became a celebrated medium, and
was surrounded by crowds of followers and inquirers,
and rumours survive of astounding manifestations made
through him. The present writer once, in Egypt, met
a Russian who since has “passed the river,” who related
some details respecting him not then appreciated, and
now indistinctly remembered. What is recollected
would seem to argue him endowed with prodigious
materialising force.
Schrepfer lived a strange life, and a strange death
he died. He had promised three gentlemen, whom he
had in some measure initiated, to show them something
more wonderful than all before; and in the summer,
before sunrise, between three and four o’clock, he took
them to the wood of Rosendaal, a little beyond the gates
of Leipsic. Here he desired them| to remain awhile,
and went apart amongst the trees. Presently they
heard the report of a pistol, and, going up, found he
had shot himself. He was senseless, and soon died.
Those who knew him best declared that he was so
perpetually beset and tormented by spirits, and his life
made so miserable, as to drive him to have recourse to
a pistol. He does not appear to have been distinguished
for any other qualities, and, as in many other instances,
when it is asked why the spiritual world favours per¬
sons otherwise not at all noteworthy, and why powers so
extraordinary are conferred apparently with so little dis¬
crimination, one can only say, as Charles Lamb said of
Spenser’s Faery Land, “We do not know the laws of
that country.”
The Spiritualist Societies of Brussels are preparing to
meet in' Conference in the month of September, with a view
to forming a Belgian Federation on the model of the British
National Association of Spiritualists.
AFRICAN JUGGLERS.
BY ST. GEOEGE W. STOCK, M.A. (OXOH).
Among the many foreigners who crowd to Oxford
from north and south and east and west to enjoy the
doubtful advantage of a purely ornamental education is
a negro gentleman named Cole. His grand-parents
were slaves who were brought from the Niger country
to Sierra Leone, and there released by order of the
British Government. His father was educated by mis¬
sionaries, and took orders in the Church of England.
He himself has received a liberal education. His
knowledge of languages, in particular, is very extensive,
commencing with his native dialect, and embracing
Hebrew, Arabic, Latin, Greek, English, French, and
German. Of all these he declares he has found Eng¬
lish the most difficult, from its arbitrariness. I thought
I would take advantage of my acquaintance with this
gentleman to obtain some information about the African
jugglers, of whom I had read curious stories; and my
delight was great when he told me in reply to my inter¬
rogation that he had often witnessed their performances.
I will relate here the substance of what he told me, in
the hope that the readers of The Spiritualist will share
my interest in his narration.
A very favourite trick with these jugglers, and one
witnessed by Mr. Cole’s father, is to take a piece of
cassada (a plant resembling a potato) and throw it into
a glass, the juggler at the same time asking the spec¬
tator what he would like to have it turned into.
Perhaps the spectator will say a sovereign, and the
cassada will instantly become one, A dishonest man
may make a good thing out of this trick by running
off instantly and exchanging the cassada for its worth
in goods or silver. He must be expeditious, though,
for in a very short time the sovereign will turn back
into a piece of cassada, to the amazement of the unsus¬
pecting recipient.
In another trick of the African jugglers one of them
will present himself before a merchant and ask for a
sum of money—say £50. The merchant will, of
course, refuse, and in all probability angrily order the
juggler out of his house. The juggler will go at once.
But next time the merchant counts his money, he will
find the exact sum missing which the juggler asked
for. The only way for the merchant to escape loss is
to propitiate the intruder with some trifling present.
These relations, I thought, were interesting enough,
but, not having the warrant of personal experience,
were comparatively valueless. Accordingly I pressed
Mr. Cole to tell me what he had himself witnessed of
the powers of his countrymen. This he was at first
loth to do, fearing lest I should come to the conclusion
that veracity was not an African virtue. But when I
explained to him that I was commonly regarded as a
fool by my acquaintances on the score of my excessive
credulity, he proceeded to test the streugth of that
quality by the following extraordinary recital, at the
same time giving me his positive assurance of its
truth.
Some jugglers from the interior came down to Sierra
Leone to exhibit their powers. Mr. Cole was one of a
party that assembled in a tent to witness the per¬
formance. After displaying various wonders, the chief
juggler requested one of the spectators to go out and
borrow a loaded gun. The testimony of the lender
was afterwards obtained to the fact of its being a bond
fide gun, veritably loaded. When the gun was brought,
THE SPIRITUALIST,
51
July 30, 1875.
the juggler further requested the borrower to have the
goodness to shoot him. The man demurred for fear of
being hanged, for they were under British government.
Then the juggler upbraided the negro who had brought
the gun, calling the company to witness that he had
asked the man to shoot him, and that he was afraid.
He would not, he said, get one of his own band to do
so, because the bystanders would in that case declare
it was all collusion and trickery. Public opinion went
in favour of the juggler’s being shot, and so the man
at length plucked up his courage, stood a few paces off
the juggler, levelled the gun, and discharged a bullet
full in his breast. The juggler fell lifeless to the
ground, the blood welling from the wound. A pro¬
found silence ensued. The spectators meanwhile began
to feel very uncomfortable, and some of them thought
it prudent to slink out of the tent. Then the juggler’s
men commenced a wild African chant. Presently the
dead man’s breath began to return, and, as the song
drew to a close, he jumped to his feet, with no appear¬
ance of a wound about his person, nor was there the
faintest trace of blood upon the floor, though it had
before been covered with it. The revived man then
told the spectators all they had said while he lay on
the ground, mentioning how some of the party had
left the tent. On concluding this narration, Mr. Cole
remarked to me that he did not think we had any con¬
juring like that in Europe.
The same gentleman also assured me he was present
when the following wonderful incidents took place.
Some jugglers had come down as before from the in¬
terior to the coast. Governor Kennedy, of Sierra
Leone, was then on the point of taking his departure
for Hong Kong. The jugglers asked leave to exhibit
before him, saying they knew his was a very wonder¬
ful country, but they would like him to know that
there were some strange things in their country too
before he left it. Permission being granted, and a
party having assembled at the Governor’s quarters, the
head juggler says, “ Massa, ask for whatever you would
like to have.” The Governor proposes they should
have a good spread. “ Well, let them lay a cloth,”
says the juggler. The cloth being laid, the juggler
waves his hands in the air, and a large ham appears on
the table. Governor Kennedy then suggests hot boiled
rice. The juggler repeats his manoeuvre, and in broad
daylight quantities of steaming rice fall on a dish
previously laid on the table. Then the chief juggler
informs the company he is about to show them some¬
thing more wonderful still, namely, he will produce a
live baby out of nothing. Here the Governor’s power
of credence fails him, and he tells the juggler he does
not know what he is talking about. “Wait and see,”
replies the juggler. “ I have said that I will produce
a baby, and I will do it. But you must hold your
arms so,” placing them as if dandling a baby. Then
the negro spreads out his hands, and a live baby appears
in the Governor’s folded arms, squalling as only a baby
can. In a few moments it vanishes again as mysteri¬
ously as it came.
After listening to these stories I asked Mr. Cole how
such feats were to be accounted for, and he said that
though the jugglers professed to do them by their own
powers, yet people who were at all initiated knew that
they were accomplished by the aid of spirits.
Mks. Honywood is at present at Uriage les Bains, near
Grenoble, France, but leaves for Switzerland in a day or two.
MATERIALISATION PHENOMENA AND THEIR
USES.
The following is an extract from a letter written by Mr
Benjamin Coleman to an earnest worker in Spiritualism resid¬
ing at Madeira :—
“ Materialisation mediums are springing np in all directions.
In America (and indeed here once with Bastian and Taylor)
the spirit-form and the medium have appeared together; the
former, as if the stronger, steps up to the cabinet and leads
out the entranced medium. A very complete answer this to
Serjeant Cox’s theory, and the impossibility, as he considered,
of establishing the separate identity of the two. The ques¬
tion, however, is not at all settled (in my mind at least) of
how these materialised appearances are formed, and by what
means they are produced, or that they give any proof of
identity. Of course they are among the highest proofs of
spirit-power, and that power we know sets at defiance the
known natural laws, and it may be the means of working up
our thoughts into the resemblance of one we know, just as a
clairvoyant reads them.
“ The objection to this hypothesis, however, is to be found
in the fact that some have recognised persons of whom they
were not thinking, and for whom they had no special regard,
as the clairvoyant not only describes what you may have in
your mind, or what you may have written, but something
more which you were not thinking about, or did not really
know, but afterwards find to be correct.
“ There is nothing safe in dealing with these mysteries but
to acknowledge that they are produced by the action of spirit
entities who are highly intelligent. What the limit of their
powers may be it would be useless to speculate. I know from
my own experience it is something tremendous, and I feel
innately sure that these things are not put before a small
portion of the world to behold, and to induce the honest ob¬
servers of them to proclaim them as facts, amidst the jeers
and derision of the thoughtless multitude, without an all-
sufficient reason known only to that Divine power which
permits them, and permitting them in His wisdom, intends, I
believe, to make them a means to an end for the benefit of
the whole human family.
“ The apparently useless and undignified nature of some
of these spirit manifestations are calculated to drive away
timid or too sensitive inquirers, who raise the cry of ‘ diabolism.’
They do not affect me, and whilst some may be driven away
who need them not, there are many more who need them,
above all things, to convince them of a reality which, for the
first time, they recognise as something wonderful, partaking
of the supernatural, something that they had not realised
from their college instructors or their village preachers.
“ Yes, my good friend, you may take courage, and rely that
upon your advocacy of this much-derided Spiritualism you
are helping to plant a truth the most important to mankind,
however men may disfigure it by their base and vicious
natures, as in the case of Buguet, the Paris photographer,
whose vile conduct is now occupying public attention;”
Mr. M. R. Smith has presented a handsome marble
clock to the National Association of Spiritualists’ Beading
Booms at Great Bussell-street.
Channel Island Stjperstitions.—Superstition is gra¬
dually losing its hold, and much genuine and intelligent piety
doubtless exists in some of these islands. But in the hamlets
most remote from town, and among the older people, curious
superstitions still obtain belief. On Christmas night there are
some even in St. Peter’s Port who will on no account go to a
well to draw water. Others will not venture into a stable at
midnight lest they should surprise the cattle, asses, and sheep
on their knees, worshipping the infant Saviour. A photo¬
grapher is sometimes regarded as dealing in the black art, and
some refuse so far to compromise their character as to allow
themselves to be photographed. In Guernsey, at St. George,
is a well called “ Holy Well,” still visited by damsels, for on
the surface of its waters maidens are said to be able to see the
faces of their future husbands. In Jersey, near St. Clement’s,
is the Witches’ Bock, where, it is said, the witches hold their
Sabbath ; the belief in witchcraft is not entirely extinct here.
The marks on that rock are confidently asserted to be the
footprints made by his Satanic majesty during the visits
which, it is to be feared, he makes quite too frequently in
Jersey as well as elsewhere.—S. O. W. Benjamin, in Harper’s
Magazine,
52
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 30, 1875.
SPIRITUALISM IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
According to recent information, Russia bids fair to become
tbe “ third great power ” in the investigation of the phe¬
nomena of Spiritualism.
Being essentially a country of aristocratic institutions, the
movement has begun in the upper ranks of society; it receives
the patronage both of the Court and of the University. The
desire to investigate first sprang from those who witnessed
the manifestations of Mr, D. D. Home, and later those of M.
Camille Br6dif, among whom is Dr. Nicholas Wagner, Pro¬
fessor of Zoology at the University of St. Petersburg. In
an article by Dr. Wagner, published in the March number of
Psychic Studies, he distinctly testifies to the reality of the
table movements and the intelligence displayed by the rap¬
ping forces at a seance held in the presence of Professor
Butlerow, Dr. D., and Mme. Aksakof. He says, “Of the
objective reality of the phenomena witnessed by me I have
not the slightest doubt, and believe that every one who has the
opportunity to observe the same through a course of sittings
will arrive at the same conclusion.” Houses the term “ psycho¬
dynamic,” by which he does not mean to explain anything,
but simply to denote a certain class of phenomena occurring
in the presence of persons of particular “ nervous ” organisa¬
tion. After a careful exposition of conditions, which he
classifies under four heads, as “indispensable,” “developing,”
^favourable,” and “disturbing,” Dr. Wagner proceeds to
say that a peculiar variableness and uncertainty seem to be
essential attributes of medial manifestations, and he recom¬
mends the most careful and detailed study and recording of
observations before attempting any explanation of the mo¬
tive power which controls these psycho-dynamic phenomena.
He adds, however, that this difficulty “ offers no excuse for
leaving this wide field of inquiry unexplored,” and that it is
the duty of men of science to seek for an explanation of the
mystery, keeping in view as their sole end “ the extension of
human knowledge.”
Besides the learned professors of the present time living in
Russia who are interested in Spiritualism, may be mentioned
the celebrated mathematician, Ostrogradsky, who died in
1861, and who was converted by answers given through the
planchette in his own family circle, from a materialist to a
firm believer in spirit-life and in communion with those
gone before.
It is encouraging also to learn that in Germany, where
there has long been a dearth of physical manifestations, a
medium has at length appeared whose powers seem to be both
satisfactory and reliable. Mr. Oskar Kramer writes from
Potsdam, in Prussia, accounts of a series of seances held with
a young man aged seventeen, “ whose weak physical organism
is certainly not capable of such exhibitions of power as take
place in his presence at the circle.” The manifesting spirit
calls himself Joseph von Oborf. On one occasion the writer
proposed, by way of moderating the violence of the table
movements, that two persons should sit upon the table. The
movements continued, with very little diminution of power.
When six persons sat Upon it, the table only creaked and
groaned. When all in the room sat upon it, answers to
questions were given by movements of an easel in a further
corner of the room. A pencil suspended by a string was
raised to the horizontal position without contact with hands.
The most remarkable manifestation was the following, which
occurred in the dark. There were only two persons present
besides the medium, one of whom was the writer. The
medium and the sitter, Herr Hoguet, placed themselves on
the table, which had flaps on two sides. Oborf asked for
music. Herr Hoguet played the guitar, and Oborf accom¬
panied by moving the flaps of the table in time to the music,
while at the same time the table was raised on either side
alternately, and a bell, which had been attached to the under
side of the table, was struck in regular time. The writer
stood in front of the medium holding his hands all through.
The same medium receives written communications from
Oborf, and also speaks in the unconscious trance. The writer
of the narrative, M. Kramer, concludes by inviting the resi¬
dents of Berlin and its neighbourhood to form a society for
the regular investigation of these astounding phenomena.
A letter from the Rev. J. Murray Spear, of Phila¬
delphia, informs us that he and Mrs. Spear are trying to in¬
fluence the local legislature, to secure better treatment for the
refractory children in the Philadelphia Reformatory, where
they are now frequently whipped.
SEANCE AT THE BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
BY DESMOND G. FITZ-GERALD, MEMBER OP THE INSTITUTION
OF TELEGRAPH ENGINEERS.
On Monday last the following members of this
Society held a very interesting seance with Mrs.
Hardy at my house, 6, Loughboro’-road North,
Brixton, viz.: Mrs. Rudd, Miss Ponder, Miss E. D.
Ponder, Mr. Tapp, Mr. and Mrs. Edmonds, Mr., and
Mrs. Gray, Mr. Egerton Stanley, Mrs. Gunyon, Mr. and
Mrs. Fitz-Gerald, Mr. Francis (Hon. Secretary), and
Miss Fitz-Gerald (Assistant Hon. Secretary). Mr.
Hardy accompanied Mrs. Hardy, but, after offering a
few suggestions, and explaining the character of the
phenomena usually obtained through his wife’s medium-
ship, this gentleman withdrew from the circle.
A table had been prepared by cutting in the centre
an aperture which was covered with a piece of black
linen, cut longitudinally and transversely, so as to allow
means of egress for materialised spirit-hands. The
table was also surrounded by the same material tacked
to it, and thus formed a kind of “ dark cabinet.” One
gas-light was left burning, turned down sufficiently
to throw a subdued but tolerably distinct light-
upon the table. Almost as soon as Mrs. Hardy
had seated herself raps were heard in various
directions around her, and by means of them in¬
structions were obtained as to the arrangement
of the sitters. Within a few minutes, one of the ladies,
who is strongly mediumistic, exclaimed that raps were
being produced upon her dress; and during the singing
of “ Shall we gather at the River ?” a small hand
appeared through the aperture in the table. In answer
to questions, it was intimated by the raps that this
hand belonged to the spirit-daughter of a lady present;
and the lady in question, as well as a gentlemen who
had known the spirit in earth-life, was allowed to touch
the fingers and to feel their gentle pressure. Other
hands, purporting in most cases to belong to spirit-
relatives of those present, now appeared in rapid
succession, and were touched by the sitters. A ring
was placed by Mrs. Hardy on the finger of one of these
materialised hands, and it was removed by the same lady
after it had been repeatedly exhibited in view above
the table. A small hand-bell was then held partly
within the aperture, and was seized by a spirit-hand
and rung within the g'wasi-cabinet, keeping time 'With
the singing when this was continued. A slate, held in
similar manner by several of the sitters in Succession,
was pulled downwards with a force which in one case
was estimated as equal to a weight of> 251bs. The
handkerchief of a young lady was taken through the
aperture and subsequently returned to her. Varying
these playful manifestations, some recognitions were
made of hands whose peculiarities of touch and shape
were well remembered.
Whilst preparations for a <f change ” w4re being made,
and the eyes of the sitters not so strongly riveted upon
the table, a large hand and wrist was twice projected
some considerable distance through the aperture.
A dark seance was subsequently held, Mrs. Hardy
being seated in the centre of the circle, with her febt—-
by her own particular desire—held between those of
one of the sitters. Most, if not all, of those present
were now repeatedly touched and patted by hands-—
which could not have belonged to the medium, since
the sitters were for the most part far beyond her reach,
nor to the sitters themselves, since hll our hands were
July 30, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
53
joined. Once a spirit-voice was heard, but somewhat
indistinctly, addressing a member of the circle. In one
or two instances a ring was withdrawn from the finger
of one sitter and placed upon that of another, and the
transport of a handkerchief was also effected across
the circle.
A curious incident occurred whilst some refresh¬
ment was being taken before the party broke up. A
table-cloth having been laid over the seanc«-table, a
dish, accidentally placed over the aperture in the latter
was raised with a jerk, and its contents were disturbed.
On removing the dish, two or three persons were able
distinctly to feel the fingers which from within the
darkened space had performed this espihglerie.
Both seances were considered very satisfactory, and
Mrs. Hardy has left a pleasant and favourable impres¬
sion upon those who had this opportunity of meeting
her.
THE INSANITY OP MR. DALE OWEN.
Since details have been published in America of the alleged
insanity of Mr. Robert Dale O wen, the sad news appears un¬
fortunately to be too true, yet in the Spiritualistic journals
which came to hand last week from America, the news was
not authenticated. All the information the Banner of Light
possessed on the subject was gleaned from the New York
Evening Post, the editor of which himself expressed doubt as
to the authenticity of the news.
The following details are quoted from the Post article :—
Mr. Robert Dale Owen’s many friends in this city are aware
that he went a few weeks ago to a water-cure called the Home
on the Hillside, at Dansville, in Western New York, where he
put himself under the charge of the superintendent, Dr. James
C. Jackson, for purely physical ailments which had been
troubling him for two or three years past, and manifested
themselves chiefly by indigestion. They will be startled by a
letter which appeared in the Rochester Express last evening,
announcing that he has been taken to his home in Indiana
as insane. We are reluctant to believe that the inferences of
the writer are correct as to the cause of Mr. Owen’s mental
disturbance, if the allegations of insanity are indeed well
founded. We have conversed with him personally within a
few weeks concerning the “ Katie King business,” and the
imposture which was practised on him with regard to it, and
no one possibly could have talked with greater simplicity and
candour of the error of another than he of his own deficient
observation in his experiments in Philadelphia, and of his
earnest desire to correct the impression of the authenticity of
the “ Katie King ” manifestation, so far as he had been the
cause of its acceptance by anybody. But at the same time he
earnestly avowed that his faith in the doctrines of Spiritualism
was not impaired by his own error; nor was his self-deprecia¬
tion excessive: it was frank, but moderate and reasonable,
and was consistent with the devout tenor of his character.
With these few words we print the letter, which bears date at
Dansville, June 30th :—
“ For some time Dansville has been the stopping-place of a
distinguished visitor, Robert Dale Owen, the well-known
writer and Spiritualist. He came here hoping by freedom
from care and trouble to recuperate and repair his shattered
energies, and to enable him to continue his literary labours.
Occupying his time mainly with recreation, for a time nothing
unusual was observed in his conduct, and h& was pointed out
as a rather eccentric old gentleman. An upholder of Spirit¬
ualism, and a writer of acknowledged merit, his society was
sought after, and his conversations were coherent and instruc¬
tive. Invitations to lecture were occasionally accepted, and
some of your readers will no doubt remember the lecture on
‘ Spiritualism ’ delivered by him not long since in your city.
If any one at that time considered him insane, they failed to
give others the benefit of their judgment. During the past
week, however, his eccentricities increased to such an alarm¬
ing extent that it became painfully evident to those that knew
him that the great mind of Robert Dale Owen had lost its
reason. His wild, excited actions on Friday last at the
grounds of the Dansville Driving Park Association were clearly
those of an insane person. Driving furiously among a crowd
of carriages, accosting strangers and gesticulating violently,
he was a source of annoyance to his friends and of surprise to
strangers. His son was telegraphed for immediately. He
reached here on Sunday night, and on Tuesday morning started
for his home in Indiana with Mr. Owen.”
The Chicago Daily Tribune says of Mr. Owen’s career :—
The life so sorrowfully ended—for insanity is death, or
worse than death—began in 1804, at New Lanark, an indus¬
trial settlement near Glasgow, Scotland, which was long
a monument to the philanthropy of his father, Robert Owen.
The son’s fame has never equalled that of the sire, but he
has been even more self-sacrificing in his efforts to benefit
mankind. When the father came to America in order to carry
out his communistic dreams, his son was his faithful assistant.
He edited the paper that served as the organ of the “New
Harmony ” colony. When that brave, foolish experiment
failed, and the elder Owen returned to England to conduct
like failures there, to sow the seeds of co-operation, labonr-
leagues, and chartism, to found infant schools, and to preach
Spiritualism, Robert Dale remained in America. He was by
nature a politician of the old school, the good school, and he
was soon in the Indiana legislature, where he succeeded in
emancipating women from the slavery of the common law,
then in Oongress, and finally in the diplomatic service of the
country. President Pierce, who sent Hawthorne to Liverpool,
and so indirectly endowed the world with “ The Marble
Faun ” and “ Our Old Home,” made Owen minister at
Naples. Since he retired from that position in 1858, he has
been a student, writer, amateur politician, and professional
philanthropist. His published works fill nearly a dozen
volumes. No one, we presume, reads now a days his unpo¬
pular Popular Tracks, his Plank Roads, and Pocahontas, a
Dream. We trust that no one will try to read his Beyond
the Breakers. But book-making was not his forte. A
A kindly, genial, whole-souled man, the predestined prey of
plausible rogues, the friend of every scheme of reform, com¬
bining the purity of childhood with the vigour of manhood, he
has met a fate worse than death,—a fate for which a trio of
sordid swindlers is probably responsible.
Since the foregoing was in type, and just before going to
press, we received by the last American mail the first state¬
ment from a Spiritualistic source, authenticating Mr. Dale
Owen’s insanity ; the said statement is here quoted from the
pages of the Spiritual Scientist (Boston, U.S.):—
Dr. Jackson, of the “ Home” at Dansville, N. Y.,where Mr.
Owen had been staying, writes under date of July 11th, as
follows: “ At the time Mr. Owen left us he was decidedly
insane. His insanity came upon him in consequence of over
mental taxation from literary and lecturing labours. He had
a fever for eleven days, and during his illness a letter came,
announcing that he had a legacy of 3,000 dols. left him,
which so affected him in his exceedingly weak state, that his
mind became unsettled, and when his physical strength re¬
turned sufficiently to enable him to leave his room, his excite¬
ment took the form of an hallucination under which he
imagined he had become the possessor of great wealth, and
could buy horses, carriages, lands, whole blocks of houses,
and the like.
“ I think his derangement had nothing at all to do with his
philosophical and speculative ideas of religious faith. I am
not a modern Spiritualist, and am therefore perhaps not the
less fitted to judge as to the fact whether or not his relation
to his own particular belief had anything to do directly as a
predisposing or an approximate cause of his insanity. My
opinion is, that it had no more to do with it than Vice-presi¬
dent Wilson’s abolitionism had to do with his paralysis. I
think it is, therefore, only due to Mr; Owen and his numerous
friends, who agree with him in the main in his idealisms,
should feel relieved from any attempt on the part of anybody
to make his philosophy of life responsible for his aberration.”
Among the visitors to this country who are making use
of the National Association Library to study Spiritualistic
literature is M. Vladimir Solovioff, of Moscow, a friend of M.
Alexandre Aksakof.
Weekly discussions on controverted questions of phi¬
losophy, from the material and spiritual stand-point, take
place at the meetings of the Union Spirite at Brussels. Some
of these have been reported in the Belgian newspaper La
Chfonique.
54
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 30, 1875.
LAST WEEK'S SOIREE.
Notwithstanding that it is so late in the season, there was
a large attendance last week at the soiree of the National
Association of Spiritualists, held at 38, Great Russell-street;
and although all the rooms in the establishment were thrown
open on the occasion, they proved barely sufficient to com¬
fortably accommodate the numerous friends present. Among
the ladies and gentlemen present were Mr. Alexander Galder,
who received the visitors; Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Massey; Mr.
J. H. Gledstanes, of Paris; Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; Mr.
T. H. Noyes ; Captain J. James; Mr. and Mrs. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald and Miss Fitz-Gerald; Mr. Keningale Cook; Mdlle.
Marie de Karlowitch, of St. Petersburg; M. Meleneovitch;
Mrs. and Miss Tebb; Mr. Frederick Collingwood, Secretary to
the Anthropological Institute ; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe; Lady
Helena Newenham; Mrs. Henry Cook ; Miss Kate Cook ; Mr.
and Mrs. Dawson Rogers; Miss and Mr. Rogers; Miss F. J.
Theobald; Mr. George Robert Tapp; Mr. Earl Bird; Mr.
C. D. Dufort; Mr. E. T. Bennett; Miss Corner and Miss Nina
Corner ; Mr. Andrew Glendinning ; Mr. and Mrs. Cogman;
Mr. Joseph Ivimey; Miss Godfrey; Miss Houghton; Mr. E.
Parkinson Ashton; Mr. Frank Everitt; Miss Sexton ; Mrs.
Louisa Lowe; Miss Bodkin; Mr. Arthur Maltby; Mrs. Maltby;
Miss Agnes Maltby; Miss Gregory; Mr. C. Smith; Mr. and
Mrs. T. M, Simkiss, of Wolverhampton, and family; Mr. John
Haxby; the Misses Young; Mr. and Mrs. Edmands; Mrs.
Gunyon; Dr. Dixon ; Mrs. Olive ; and many others.
The evening was spent in social conversation.
Mr. Gledstanes exhibited some apparatus, which he had
brought from Paris, to illustrate the method by which one of
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke’s tricks is performed. The
imitation medium is tied to iron rings, each affixed to an iron
bolt which passes through the woodwork of the seat, or
cabinet, and is then fixed in its place by means of a screw-nut
upon the outside. These rings and bolts were passed round
for examination, and, to all appearance, they were made in
one solid piece, so as to defy critical examination and pulling
or twisting in any direction while in the hands of the specta¬
tors. Mr. Gledstanes was fixed down to the seat by means of
these rings and screws, yet, when temporarily screened from
the spectators by means of a curtain, he passed a solid iron
ring on and off his arm with the utmost facility, yet afterwards
was found secured as before. With a little practice this feat
can be accomplished in three or four seconds of time. The
truth is, that although the bolts appear to be in one piece,
they are in reality made in two, and the parts can be sepa¬
rated by a peculiar movement after the end of the bolt is
fixed in position, but while it is passed round for examination
the joint cannot be detected, and there is not sufficient pur¬
chase to separate the parts by the strength of the hands
alone.
Some months ago Messrs. Maskelyne and Cook were fixed
to a cabinet by means of iron rings strongly resembling in
external appearance those exhibited by Mr. Gledstanes. Of
late, however, they have abandoned this trick.
POWERFUL MEDIUMSHIP OF A CHILD.
A gentleman who has just begun to inquire into Spirit¬
ualism sends us the following narrative :—
Being informed by my sister that she had obtained distinct
messages by raps through the table purporting to come from
my late wife, she writes me as follows. I send the enclosed for
you, it being the most perfect and conclusive test I have yet
had myself:—
Being informed, in answer to questions through the table
that if I went to a writing medium I should have communica¬
tion, I asked to whom I should go.
Answer—“ F.”
Disappointed, knowing no one of the name but my own
child, I tried through her hand, by placing a pencil in it. The
first time a sort of scroll-work was evident; the second time,
being yesterday, the hand began at once to write in pencil,
wrote ten distinct sentences, with “Yes” several times in
reply to questions; then wrote, “ Is the ink black ? ” On the
ink being brought and the pen placed in F ’s hand, her hand
was carried to the ink bottle, carefully dipped in, and as care¬
fully carried back to the paper, where the writing left off. . The
pen was then taken over the first three pencilled lines, then
carried back, and each paragraph numbered from one to ten
as they occurred, signed “J—n.” The pen was then gently
moved over to me to take away, after underlining several words.
The next day, when dressing, F came into my room. I gave
her paper and a pencil standing; her hand was moved at once,
writing “ The world is round.” I asked “ Who is writing ? ”
Answer, “ J—n.” I asked, “ What have I on that belonged to
you ? ” Answer, “ Two ear-rings; the brooch is not on yet ”—
which was the case. I asked, ‘ ‘ Who gave it to you ? ” Answer,
“You and Clem gave them back.” I asked, “ Have I anything
of yours in my trunk?” Answer, “A fan”—also true. I
asked “What am I keeping of yours for Clem?” Answer,
“My work box.” I asked, “What have I that you gave the
children?” Answer, “The purses, the lockets, and those
little things.” I asked, “Had I anything of yours after you
were gone ? ” Answer, “ Yes, my hair.” I said, “ What shall
I have made with it ? ” Answer, “ A ring with my hair in it.”
Then F——-’s hand was guided back and each answer num¬
bered, after which it drew a parenthesis round each paragraph,
and wrote at the end, “ 14 answers.”
F says her hand is taken by a hand that is warm, puts
each finger on hers, and that she feels the nails. I may add
that she had no knowledge about the jet ornaments, the fan,
the presents in the trunk, pr the hair.
In a subsequent letter my sister says :—
I said two days ago, “ Perhaps the power will guide you if
you sit down to the piano.” She sat and then played rapidly
four airs she had never learned, which I knew it would have
taken her weeks of plodding, bar by bar, to acquire. One was
The Church's True Foundation; 2, Abide with Me; 3, Sun of
my Soul; 4, a rapid affair, all on the black keys without touch¬
ing a white note : many others by fits and starts. When I
tried to take her hands off, she seemed to acquire extraor¬
dinary strength, and all mine could not remove her.
The raps seem to follow her everywhere, in the train and on
an outside car. Her chair is continually moved partly from
under her. When her attention is given to it she seems pos¬
sessed.
Now I will go on to what I was going to say. I am just as cer¬
tain as I am of F ’s honesty that the communications are
not from, the source they purport to come from. I was startled
at first by the strange truth of the replies I sent to you, but
on further investigation I see without question in my own
mind that they are what in mundane affairs we should call
forgeries, and I am forced to arrive at that conclusion—that
the intelligent being who communicates hears, knows, and sees
all we do (but not our thoughts), and that, like a human
creature, it uses the information to deceive, and, aware of
the sorrow and circumstances of the last few weeks, it mocks
us by personating as well as its information permits
the one we want to reach. It has gathered up scrap
by scr%p what at first sight and superficially would
seem like good proofs of identity, but there is a
missing link which shows me without a shade of doubt
that it is not herself. The revelation to me is quite
appalling of a power that can simulate. What I want to
know is, What is that power supposed to be amongst
Spiritualists ? I always thought that the idea concerning lying
or mocking spirits was that they told lies about their state or
the past, not that they had the power to give real informa¬
tion as to others we seek. Blunders were made as to bygone
facts—her birthplace, my mother’s name, &c. In fact, it was
cruelly, absurdly apparent that the information was recently
gathered. F writes a small hand, very slowly, like a child
does. These things were dashed off with rapidity, and
whenever dissatisfaction was expressed, the pencil dashed to
and fro across the paper with anger and scorn.
Another letter:—
Does this prove that the spirits have lived as we do now ?
When we sat the contents of all my letters were known;
facts long forgotten by me and never known to F com¬
municated ; trifling promises she never heard of brought to
my memory. In the study here is a gentleman’s writing table
covered with [leather, with drawers down both sides, locked.
Yesterday F was near it, but I should say quite eight
inches distant, her hands by her sides. She said to the
table, “ Is the spirit present ? ” Instantly there came a suc¬
cession of raps as loud as any carpenter would make driving
in nails right through the closed drawers. It kept up answers
for a long time. Then F said, “ When Papa and J 
come in sight, rap four times.” I suppose ten minutes
elapsed, and we were not near the table, when four
thundering blows came, and, lo!—there they were, at a dis¬
tance, just inside the gate.
July 30, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
55
BUGUET’S FALSE CHARGES PROVED BY HIS OWN
LETTERS.
The letters from Bugaet toM. Leymarie which were produced
by M. Lachaud at the end of the trial, and of which we have
received copies, are in themselves sufficient condemnation of
the course Buguet has chosen to pursue. When it is remem¬
bered that Buguet denied in court that he was either a medium
or a Spiritualist, and asserted that M. Leymarie knew him to
be an impostor, the following extracts speak volumes:—
“ 11th September, 1874.—Is it possible that real Spiritists
can speak thus? No, my friend, they are enemies to the
cause.
“ Pray do not let yourself be influenced by them, any more
than I My health grows daily weaker ; my strength,
physical and moral, is deteriorating, and I will not consent, for
the caprice of every comer, to lose the little mediumship I
have left, for you know as well as I that after every sitting of
this kind I am always indisposed ; I have, I should think, given
sufficient proof to be believed. As for those who doubt, let
them stay at home; I am not going to fetch them.
“ You say it is for the good of the cause. But, my friend,
if it were to be said—‘ Such a person ha? seen the experiment,
and now all the world, or at least a great portion of it, will be
convinced of the reality of the phenomena,’ I should be con¬
tent. But no, it will only be as before—they will be more in¬
credulous than ever 
“ If it is a trick, as they say everywhere, you will agree with
me that the world is very kind not to have exposed it; for,
after all, I am no more of a sorcerer than others.
“ I will have no more worry about this in future; I have
done all that is possible for an honest man to do, and sceptics
had better understand that I will do no more for them than for
others.”
The following shows that Buguet himself believed in Ley-
marie’s good faith:—
“ 21st April, 1875.—I shall be glad if you will announce in
the next Revue that my journey to London is fixed-for the 8th
May, and that I shall be away two months Be so good
as to come and see what copies you will require for the Revue
during my absence, that there may be no delay. M. Scipion,
the actor at the Oaite, who is a strong medium, came for a
sitting yesterday. He obtained the portrait of his mother, of
whom he had no photograph, and as he wishes well to Spirit-
nalism, he has authorised me to put it in the Revue, and if you
wish he will give you all necessary information.”
From the prison Buguet writes, 30th April, 1875 :—
“ Dear M. Leymarie,—I have every hope that your tempo¬
rary arrest by the police at my house on the day of the greatest
misfortune of my life, has not resulted badly for you, and that
you were soon able to return to yout dear family.
“ I write to beg you, knowing your kindness to everybody, to
do all you can to put a stop to this sad affair. For the sake of
my young family I ask your forgiveness for having sinned
unconsciously (?) and without thinking of what I was doing.
I ask forgiveness a thousandfold of God, and of all, and I hope
that your kindness will not fail to avert what trouble you can
from the father of a family.”
THE TRIAL OF M. LEYMARIE.
The case of M. P. G. Leymarie, editor of the Revue Spirite,
in the endeavour to free himself from the false charge brought
against him by Buguet, will come before the Court of Appeal
at Paris next Wednesday. He has written to us, saying that
sworn certificates from Mr. Crookes, Mr. Yarley, Mr. A. R.
Wallace, and Mr. Serjeant Cox, to the effect that the majority
of the phenomena of Spiritualism are real, and at all events
indicate the existence of a new force governed by intelligence
which claims to come from spirits, would be of great value to
him upon the trial.
Evidence that spirit-photography is a reality, would also be
useful, but the only one of the aforementioned gentlemen who
obtained proof enabling him to give evidence to that effect is
Mr. A. K. Wallace, who in his book has published how he went
to a photographer in London, and obtained a likeness of his
departed mother. Mr. S. C. Hall, also, can give evidence on
this head which may be of signal service to M. Leymarie in
his present critical position. Mr. Hall has repeatedly testified
how he went to Buguet and obtained a likeness of his
departed father, with a clear representation of the pigtail he
wore in earth-life. This evidence, legally given, may be of
great service while the present charge is hanging over the head
of an innocent man.
We have been informed that the report of the Mumler trial
in New York, published in the Spiritual Magazine, was drawn
up by the late Judge. Edmonds, and as the reality of spirit-
photography was proved at that trial, and secured the acquittal
of Mumler, the said report may be of value in M. Leymarie’s
case.
A SEANCE WITH MRS. HARDY.
On Thursday last week a seance was held at 38, Great
Russell-street, with Mrs. Hardy as medium. The following
ladies and gentlemen were present: Mrs. Wiseman, Miss
Jenkinson, Mr. A. Calder, Capt. James, Lady Helena Newen-
ham, Mrs. Oaldicott, Mr. T. H. Noyes, Mr. N. F. Dawe, Mr.
J. F. Collingwood, Mr. R. Edmiston, Miss Kislingbury, and
two or three other spectators. The table-cabinet, as generally
used at Mrs. Hardy’s seances, composed of two small tables
placed together with a small gap between, and completely
covered in on all sides with common glazed lining, was arrayed
by Mr. Selwood, and afterwards taken to pieces by the com¬
pany. After sitting for a few minutes only, a hand was pro¬
jected through the gap, which could be distinctly seen by all
present. There was no attempt at identification, but each
person round the table was allowed to approach in turn and
grasp the hand below the opening. Variations in the texture
and mode of handling were then discernible to the touch,
showing plainly that several hands of different character were
materialised, though the power was not strong enough to allow
them to come forward into the light. Evidence of strong
muscular force was given, however, by the manner in which a
slate that was passed into the aperture was grasped and
drawn downwards, Mrs. Hardy meanwhile sitting with both
hands on the table in sight of all.
When each one in the company had been satisfied indi¬
vidually that the hands were “ very like human hands,” and
equally, after due examination of the table-cabinet, that they
were not of human production, a dark seance was held, the
medium sitting in the centre, clapping her hands, and with
her feet placed between those of Mr. N. F. Dawe, who, in the
absence of Mr. Hardy, undertook to conduct the seance. The
hands were now multiplied to an amazing extent, and em¬
ployed themselves most beneficently by a sedulous use of a
lady’s fan, all round the circle—an operation much needed, as
the evening was warm and the company rather large. Rings
were exchanged, and small articles transferred from one per¬
son to another; in one or two instances they were carried to
the one for whom they were intended, but not named, by the
sender.
Two or three of the ladies present had never sat at a spirit-
circle before, and as a certain portion of the stranger element
is generally inimical to strong manifestations, the seance may
be considered in every respect a good one, though no personal
tests were given, and some of the more striking exhibitions of.
spirit-power were absent.
It is to be hoped that Mrs. Hardy, who has won the good¬
will of all during her short stay in England, will be enabled
at some future time to make a longer sojourn among us,
that a still larger number of persons may have an oppor¬
tunity of witnessing the various phases of her mediumship.
Dr. Sexton at Cavendish Rooms.—On Sunday last
the subject of Dr. Sexton’s discourse at the Cavendish Rooms
was “ Sincerity,” on which he spoke ably for about an hour
to an audience which, if not large, was at least very intelli¬
gent, and displayed great interest in the subject. Next Sun¬
day Dr. Sexton will, by special request, deliver a discourse on
the “ Relation of Modern Spiritualism to the Teachings of the
Bible and to Christianity,” when Spiritualists will do well to
attend. Service at seven o’clock.
Mrs. Seaver’s Baby.—The ^Spiritual Scientist of July
8th says: “ A sensation was caused in Boston last Wednesday
by the publication of an account of an alleged exposure of
false materialisations by Mrs. Seaver. The reporter says that
when a ‘ spirit-child ’ appeared in front of the curtain of the
cabinet he seized it and found it to be a rag doll. The
medium held fast to one end, the reporter to the other; but
before the body could break in two the irreverent youth was
knocked flat by Mrs. Seaver’s male assistant, and the gas was
turned off.”
56
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 30, 1875;.
PAETfNG.
The following versea, which we quote from the Haverfordwest Telegraph,
well express the depth of the grief of those who know not the nearness of
the spirits of the departed:—
Two silent figures in a silent land,
Clasping ea h other closely while they may;
No need for words, their yearning eyes can tell
All that those sorrow-silent lips would say.
Ay 1 clasp and cling thus closely while ye may,
And say farewell with those despairing eyes,
Day dies, and one of you, ere morn, must pass
To that still land which heeds not tears or cries.
0 soul, whose spirit-wings are trembling now
To bear thee far trom lovin* human eyes,
Parting seemed bitter, bur thine eyes have caught
The radiant home-light from beyond the skies!
And glorious words of welcome strangely blend
'With those of parting, till the bitter pain
Fades like a shadow from the dying brow,
And God’s own light and peace shine there again.
But to that stricken heart which still must live,
And learn to tread alone the world’s steep road,
No angel-voice has come to whisper peace,
No God-sent strength to ease its weary load.
No light, no peace, no tenderness of grief
Reigns in that weary, sorrow-stricken heart;
Nought but the feeling, Thou and I are one;
N ot Death itself hath power to bid us part.”
But as a bitter wind on opening flowers
Checks their fair promise, and the blossoms die,
A sudden shadow fell, Hope passed away,
And the lone heart sent forth a bitter cry.
“Oh! if our Father takes thee to Himself,
He, who is love, will also bid me come!
My God, my God! my heart would plead with Thee,
But language faileth me—my heart is dumb.”
Fear not 1 thy Father understands full well
The silent pleading oi thine anguish’d heart;
His Father-heart is grieving for thy grief,
Oh! trust Him still, although He bids you part.
  Jessie Lee.
(jrorresponnence.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of ihis journal and its readers.']
THE MATERIALISATION OF RECOGNISABLE SPIRITS IN PARIS.
Sir,—Your two notes upon passages of my letter in your
last number (page 40) claim a reply. They are as follows:—
1. “ Was Firman’s face clearly seen ? To make good
evidence the living features of medium and spirits should be
seen at the same time.—Ed.”
2. “ Were the faces unmistakably living and breathing, and
did they have mobile features? What was the amount of
light ? Spirits sometimes make up faces and busts having no
life in them.—Ed.”
I answer the two “ Notes and Queries ” together, and I hope
to your full satisfaction. I only wish to make your own and
that of your readers complete in regard to the facts I have had
to record.
Firman’s face was frequently “ clearly seen,” that is to say,
its familiar broad oval of natural colour, with hair and beard,
was visible there as usual, just as one takes in and recognises
at a glance a well-known face without closely scanning the
separate features when one’s more keen attention addresses it¬
self to other objects. His head rested back at one corner of
his arm-chair in the attitude of sleep. Of course his face was
thus in the rear part of the cabinet, where the light was less
strong, but the curtain was often drawn wide so as to show
substantially the whole of its interior, he being straight at the
middle of the opening, his legs and feet well forward to the
front, and the bed not being a very wide one. Face, hair,
beard, figure, dress, and all—he was a score of times unmis¬
takable.
The amount of light was considerable, though what I have
properly called half-light. We could clearly distinguish toes
on the sweet little feet shown, and the “ family foot ” was at
once recognised by the Bullets, by the minute circumstance
mentioned and the great toe overlapping the next one. On
the walls of the room were some small engravings, in which
the more conspicuous figures could be easily distinguished.
The respective and different faces of the three girl-spirits were
always clearly recognisable. The little “ Garmita ” had a
certain roundness or chubbiness wanting in the longer oval
of that beauty “ Mathilde,” yet was there a clear sisterly
likeness. I cannot speak to the colour of eyes, but the com¬
plexions were fair, with good colour on cheeks and lips.
Alexandrine’s hair was long and black, that of the sisters
darkish chesnut, as the Comte and Comtesse said it had been
in life, or rather ini the former life. As for “ mobility ” and
“ life,” I have dearly seen the smile already bright on the face
of Alexandrine brighten still more in response to what was
said to her; and I have generally found that there is a great
deal of very pleasant “ life,” as in the act of smiling and
kissing. “ Breathing ” is not a process visible on the human
face (except when it runs into the extreme of panting), though
it may be manifest to the eye a little lower down, where th^re
are good lungs beneath. Had there been such lungs in this
case (which may be reasonably doubted—though who knows?),
we still could scarcely have discerned that sweet breathing
made visible which we are all familiar with, by reason of the
ample drapery, which always came well up to the neck. Indeed,
I only once noticed even a neck at all, which was at one of the
earlier seances, when Mathilde (after having been before
muffled somewhat fully up to the face) showed her head at the
window with a rather long and slender neck with the just
incipient bust, which elicited from the Comte the remark,
“Look at her pretty neck now!” But if we did not see
“ breathing,” there was, at least once, very distinctly audible
the sound of blowing*iiom the lips, as a kiss was blown forward
to us simultaneously with the corresponding action of the
fingers—and that is something very nearly akin to “ breathing.”
I have before said that our distance (and mine was the greatest,
as I was directly opposite) was about four or five feet. A
small round table, close up to the bed, across which I naturally
bent forward, alone interposed between me and these lovely
visitors from that no longer undiscovered bourne from whence
it has now become a mistake to say that no traveller returns.
Paris. j. L. 0‘Sullivan.
THE PRESS ON SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—The recent issue of two pretentious, calmly scientific
works upon Spiritualism, by A. R. Wallace and Professor
Crookes, has signally shown the important attitude of the press
towards a subject always fascinating, when least acknowledged
by the popular leaders of modern thought. The “ reviews ” of
Spiritualism by the eloquent savans of the newspapers may,
to many enthusiastic, impassioned “ believers,” seem at once
cold, carnal, and cruel; unworthy alike of the higher human
instincts and that ordinary broad literary intelligence for which
a noble free press has long been famous. It must be painful
to many earnest people, of quick opinions and affections, to
watch the partial crucifixion of their darling faith, between the
two intellectual extremes of theology and literary genius, as
exemplified in the press and the pulpit. Whatever may be the
fate of the pulpit, the increasing and enlightening forces of the
press can never die. Therefore, the phenomenal religionist
may well fear the damaging critiques and possible misrepre¬
sentations of the journals of the day. The opinions of the
clergy need not alarm the ardent Spiritualist, for in proportion
to the spread of education and a general taste for reading and
independent thought, the dignity of long tolerated orthodox
preachments must, perforce, lose half the weight of self-
imposed authority.
The parsons will, in due time, be more esteemed for their
soft spiritual graces of humanitarian disposition and effort than
for their robust contribution to the agitated or harmonial faith
of the future. With the press it will be otherwise. The in¬
fluence of the fourth estate will develope conspicuously by the
ready help and accretions of literary taste, invention, and
power; and all the chief organs of varying public opinion—of
which the Times, the Athenceum, and the Saturday Review
are the prophetic examples—will more than ever reflect, if they
less powerfully control, the unfolding wisdom of England’s
sharper, less poetic, but “younger” day. The slow, golden
thoughts of standard literature will find a hurried side-light
imitation in the journals that come fresh to the breakfast
table; and if the Times of the future should not altogether
educate and amuse the circles of advanced society, it will not
be from any serious literary defect in newspaper skill and en¬
terprise. This being the case, Spiritualists would do well to
merit journalistic favour by a bold, courteous exposition of
phenomenal experience, removed as far as possible from the
hasty, dangerous enthusiasm of a quick but questionable ad¬
herence to those popular seance experiments, where cant, sly
humbug, and a too ready inference of data, bewilder, and
finally successfully deceive, the anxious inquirers. The subject
is one of serious moment, too serious, in fact, to be trifled
July 30, 1875.
THE SPIEITUALIST.
57
with or made the selfish professional channel of £ s. d. That
it often is so Spiritualists themselves admit, and the frequent
ugly “ exposures ” are one chief cause why the newspapers, as
the guides of public honesty, assume an attitude towards the
movement anything but friendly.
Lately, in a very impartial leader, the Daily News called
upon the well-wishers of Spiritualism to answer for the habit¬
ual tricks palmed off upon excited investigators by unworthy
“ mediums,” without character or conscience. Will not the
British National Association of Spiritualists give attention to
this matter ? They could surely do something to place the
front rank “mediums” upon a platform of good moral sur¬
roundings, above ordinary temptations, and apart from the
rattle of the stray half-crowns. Of course there would still be
humbugs innumerable clinging to the outer fringe of Spirit¬
ualism, ever ready to play Jim Crow for a consideration, but
such an irresponsible clique of tricksters would gradually meet
their own destruction in quarters subject to such ingenious,
repeated frauds. The public would soon assume to be its own
police, and counterfeit mediums would receive more “ power”
than would be good for their health and fame. Until
. Spiritualists of integrity combine to eliminate the “ black
sheep” of the movement, and as long as Buguet,the Holmeses,
and other defective, if once genuine, “ mediums ” combine to
disgrace the most sacred phase of psychology, the attitude of
the outside press is not to be wondered at. Moreover, let us not
murmur hastily at the tone of the influential secular press.
Upon the whole, such hot-blooded criticism is beneficial. The
counterfeit article will be the chief sufferer; and if many
honest, learned, competent investigators in this and other
countries have really peeped into the hereafter, through the
“ gates ajar,” or if scientific men are on the track of a “ force,”
not natural, or hitherto known, why the ordeal of newspaper
criticism will but help to refine the pure gold by the chasten¬
ing severity of an unavoidable opposition.
Unfortunately the press is too telegraphic in its assumptions.
Not seldom the Pall Mall Gazette comes out as if written by
others than “ gentlemen ” for “ gentlemen,” recalling the
flesh and blood materialism of the French positivists. This was
notably the case in its late ” review ” of the two new works
mentioned at the outset of this article. The organ of the clubs
invariably upon other themes essays to respect the scientific
learning and cool, critical acumen of A. B. Wallace and Mr.
Crookes. Then why treat them as lunatics upon Spiritualism ?
If after all these two eminent men of science should have the
ultimate testimony of their compeers and successors as to the
now despised but developing facts of Spiritualistic phenomena,
why, the scribes of the rather dogmatic afternoon oracle may
yet, if alive, have to hold up the white feather, and be glad to
bow to their superiors and tremblingly kiss the heavenly
gates. Meanwhile they would do well to read your journal
constantly, as aforetime, and muse over its calm, well authen¬
ticated reports of supramundane proceedings.
As to the Times, it is very quiet about Spiritualism. But
that is a good sign. Conversion is often the result of noise¬
less reflection, and a deathlike silence sometimes precedes the
most favourable results. It is only waiting for the Pall Mall
Gazette to change front, and taketbe initiative in a bold avowal
of attachment to Herne and Williams. I have no hope for
the Echo whilst Arthur Arnold ceases his classically exact
German studies. The dry philosophy of Fatherland is fatal to
a clear and an intelligible adoption of John King and his
wonderful lamp, by the trembling light of which articles in
favour of spirit-communion will perchance be read in the
Echo of ten years hence.
Having a pretty extensive acquaintance with editorial feel¬
ing and opinion in my own district, I would point out two
strong obstacles to the acceptance of Spiritualism by the
established organs of the press. In the first place, the news¬
papers will naturally be slow to endorse Spiritualistic attacks
upon the theology of the churches: not that editors are
squeamishly orthodox, but because it would be unwise to
offend the religious tastes of the earnest millions who swear by
the abstract doctrines of Christianity. If Spiritualism is to
gain popular and consequently journalistic patronage, it must
be by the conciliatory presentation of its phenomenal facts,
and not by the antagonistic assertions of its singular widely-
questioned truths and philosophy. Moreover, the “ spirits ”
disagree much about matters theological, so that old faiths
may claim the benefit of fair consideration throughout the
new discussion and psychic research. Again, and in conclu¬
sion, most of the “trance” speaking—with the brilliant ex¬
ceptions of Mrs. Tappan, J. J. Morse, and a few others—
savours too much of the earth, earthy, fot the pretensions
put forth, and which, acute, soberly practical newspaper men
find it difficult to endorse or circulate. The fine normal
orations in defence of the movement by Ur. Sexton, and the
philosophical, experimental utterances of Gerald Massey, will
sooner influence opinion and engage the serious attention of
the press. J. T. Markley.
Albert-place, Peterborough.
SPIRITUALISM IN LIVERPOOL.
Sir,—The present premises not being found adequate to the
demands made upon the Liverpool Psychopathic Institute, we
have been compelled to secure larger rooms, which we have
obtained in Everton, at 74, Queen’s-road, containing two
reception rooms and one operating and seance room, while
several bedrooms are fitted up comfortably, especially for the
use of mediums and Spiritualists passing through this town.
Mr. and Mrs. Hardy will avail themselves of this opportunity
by stopping at the Institute, where they will receive friends
and visitors on Saturday evening, Sunday, and Monday, July
the 31st, and 1st and 2nd proximo.
Mr. Mahony, lecturer on Spiritualism and cognate subjects,
will deliver two addresses in the Islington Assembly Booms,
Liverpool, next Sunday, the 1st proximo, and on Saturday,
the 31st inst., he will, in connection with Mr. and Mrs. Hardy,
address a small circle of friends in the seance room of the
Institute, as a sort of house-warming to the new under¬
taking.
The open-air services are still attracting some attention,
and the efforts put forth seem not to be in vain. For this I
am thankful.
Mr. Walter Isaacs, medical, test, clairvoyant, and healing
medium, we have found an invaluable aid as a healer, and we
think eventually he will be better understood and supported.
I have no doubt that one after another favourable testimonial
will reach you in due course from a few of those who have
been relieved and cured by mesmeric treatment.
J. Coates.
No. 1, Dunkeld-street, West Derby-road,
Liverpool, July 25 th, 1875.
SPIRITUALISM IN EAST LONDON.
Sir,—Will you kindly insert in your next our very grateful
thanks for tbe donation from the British National Association,
and also for ten shillings from A. C.; with hearty thanks also
to you, dear Sir, for your many unsolicited favours. Sincerely
yours, Bobert and Harriet Cogman.
15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End-road, E.
OUR DREAMS AND OTHER ILLUSIONS.
Sir,—Shakespeare gives us the belief of the idealist in
a single sentence—that “ we are such stuff as dreams are
made of, and our little life is rounded with a sleep,” meaning
that our thoughts, when awake, are not essentially different from
a dream, since the idealist affirms that the perceptions are the
things themselves, and that there are no other things. But
Mr. Cox affirms that “ in sleep the action of the will is sus¬
pended, but consciousness remains,” which is not true ; the
will is as much an element of the dream as of our thinking
when awake. We are too often painfully aware in a dream of
a will and effort to escape a danger, but are unable to stir. It
is the sense and the power of the muscles that are suspended
in such an instance, not the will; and it is the senses that
give the ability of judging of realities and of the objective rela¬
tions. The conscious state we term a will.is just as much a
phenomenon of the brain as any other, and is not an indepen¬
dent, undetermined phenomenon that acts on the brain, as_
Mr. Cox asserts. Our thoughts are not determined by the
will, but the will is determined by our thoughts, feelings, and
motives, the mental correlations of the cerebral action; and the
Conscious Self cannot be separated from that of which it is con¬
scious. Even our higher inspirations are not the products of
the will. Take the instance of Newton, who tells us that he
set his attention towards a question, and waited for the
thoughts to Come, but his Conscious Self did not control the
action of the brain from which tbe thought came, as Mr. Cox
would have us believe. It is the same with tbe poet as with
the philosopher, and with nine-tenths of tbe waking thinking of
every one of us, just as the actions of the body are for the most
part automatic, and without intention or will. My late friend
Barry Cornwall often wondered where his poetic thoughts
came from, being quite certain that he had no will or control
in the matter, any more than in a dream. If it he a soul
58
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 30, 1875.
that thinks, and acts, and dreams, it would be the same as in
the supposition of the brain being the source and organ of the
mental states, one of which we term will, and another self-
consciousness. I think that any philosophic Spiritualist will tell
Mr. Cox that there is not, nor can there be any proof of a soul
but in its actual independent presence in our midst, and that his
argument is not founded on fact, and no better than a dream.
Henry G. Atkinson.
Hotel de la G-are, Boulogne.
A REMARKABLE CASE OF CLAIRVOYANCE—FIFTEEN B^LES OF
COTTON FOUND IN FRANCE.
Sib,—In the year 1850 Captain Morton, belonging to a ship
owned in Liverpool by the firm of Messrs. Clint and Uft-
witch, called at my house to inform me he had been on a
voyage to New Orleans, and brought home a cargo of cotton.
On the cargo being delivered, fifteen bales of the same were
missing, valued at two hundred and five pounds, for which he
had signed bills of lading. He thus made himself liable for
the amount. He had been searching all the ships arriving in
the port from New Orleans, but could get no tidings of the
bales; he had also written to New York, and telegraphed thence
to New Orleans. A message was sent in reply, to the effect that
nothing had been heard of them.
He requested me to put the clairvoyante, Sarah Mason, a
patient 1 had cured, into the mesmeric sleep, to see if she
could give him information where the cotton could be found.
When in the mesmeric sleep I told her to go off to New Orleans.
Immediately she started, I suppose, in spirit. On her way
she rocked much in the chair, as she generally did when she
went on a journey. In a short time she said: “I have got
there. What a number of ships are lying along the quay!”
She then said the ship that took the cotton on board lay four
ships from Captain Morton’s. Then she remarked: “ What
made the Captain sign the bill, when his mate’s name was
not to the shipping note?” He said she was right. The
name Matthews was on the shipping note, which was not the
mate’s name. ‘ «
I then told her to follow the ship from New Orleans to the
port she was bound for. She said, “I will.” In a few
minutes she said the ship did not come to England, for when
she drew near she swayed to the right. I then said, “ Let me
know where she has gone.” In a short time she asked me
was there a place called “Grass” anywhere. “Yes,” I said,
“ there is a place, Havre-de-Grace, in France.” She then said,
“ That is it; but they say 'Ha de gras.' I can’t understand
them, they speak so queer.” Captain Morton said she had
gone far enough. She was right.—“ The Potomac, of Phila¬
delphia, had loaded for Havre cotton from the same merchants
at New Orleans. She must be right. I never thought of it
before. I will write this day and ask the captain if he
had the cotton on board his ship, with certain marks and
numbers.”
During the week the mate of the ship came up to ask the
clairvoyante some questions. As soon as I put her into the
mesmeric trance she said to him, “I have seen you before.”
I asked him if he had ever been at my house. “No,” she
said, “ I saw him on board the ship that missed the cotton.”
He then said that he was second mate to Captain Morton, and
could not get any wages till the cotton turned up. She told
him to go and tell his captain it would be all right. A few
days afterwards the captain came to my house with a letter
from Captain Bich, informing him from Havre that he had
on board the number of bales of cotton, with such marks as he
described; he, not finding an owner for it, had sold it for the
good of whom it concerned, and had great pleasure in sending
the balance of the amount it had been sold for by a banking
bill for one hundred and seventy-five pounds. Captain Morton
said it would just square the account due to the merchant. He
put a letter in the Liverpool Mercury, stating the case, and
how he had found the cotton, which made no little stir
among the people. I sent the letter to the late Lord Stanhope,
and received from his lordship the following reply :—
Chevening, near Sevenoabs, Nov. 11th, 1850.
Sir,—I beg you will accept my many thanks for your kindness in
sending to me a copy of a very interesting letter, which furnishes an
additional proof of the practical utility and importance, as weli as of the
truth, of.clairvoyance. I think it is very discreditable to the intelligence
of the age, which is said to be enlightened, that facts are disbelieved when
their causes cannot be explained. — I am, sir, your obedient humble
servant, (Signed) Stanhope.
To Oapt. H. Hudson.
Mr. B. Coleman knew the clairvoyante well, and witnessed
many wonderful and interesting cases. H, Hudson.
Swansea.
ANGELS SEEN AND HEARD PLAYING AND SINGING ROUND A
DEATH-BED IN DEVONSHIRE.
Sir,—Yesterday my wife visited a young woman who is now
sinking rapidly, after a painful illness of five years. She had
been servant in a family before her illness, and a young lady
of the family died of consumption whilst she was in service.
Speaking about that lady’s illness this poor girl, a good
Christian, abruptly said to my wife, “ Oh! that was a happy
Sunday for Miss when she died; she brightened beauti¬
fully, all of a sudden, and said to me, ‘ I see a band of lovely
angels playing music, and I hear their joyful voices singing !’
That is the way she died ; but I myself could not see or hear
the angels.” Hopeful.
TO PHILOLOGISTS.
Sir,—Can any of your readers inform me if “ Kyzer ” is a
Bussian name ? Also if the following is Bussian or any other
language ?—SorkevevJcegochsigda cafaesnofz. Inquirer.
[It is not Bussian, nor Polish, although in the latter language “ kego ”
means “ whom.”—Ed].
PRIVATE SEANCES IN MANCHESTER.
Sir,—In continuing the melancholy task of reporting past
seances, which might by this time have developed into shining
lights in the history of modern Spiritualism, but seem to be
destined to leave a black spot in the history of social refine¬
ment in this city, I must omit many isolated interesting inci¬
dents, and draw attention to the highly instructive gradual
advance of power which came so clearly to our notice, in con¬
sequence of the regularity of our meetings, under always the
same conditions. The materialisations commenced with very
faint and hurried touches, as produced by the points of fingers,
and soon grew into distinct contact with a full sized band,
sometimes cold in the beginning and warm and lifelike after¬
wards, in the course of the same seance; then tapping and
pulling at the sleeves indicated increase of power, and joy at
success on the part of the spirit would sometimes be expressed
by a smart box on the ears of each of us in turn. We had no
means of answering such tokens of regard in like manner, as
our hands were constantly joined. Before the “ form ” or face
came out distinctly a similar scale of progress showed itself,
and for a considerable time only cloudy, shadowy masses ap¬
peared in the cabinet aperture, with slight traces of details.
The very first attempt, however, was, in this phase, an oval
disc with a very white edge in place of drapery. The working
out of details seemed to be produced at the expense of the
original intensity of the original disc, and once I detected
pretty clearly a “ sketch ” of the brilliant apparition described
in my letter appended to Mr. Blackburn’s report. One very
remarkable circumstance I observed, when I saw our medium
and the form at the same time. After the face had appeared
lifelike at the aperture, a white transparent figure stood at the
side of her, showing no marks of eyes or other parts of the
face, but only a flat form. After we had inspected it and
taken our seats it came again clear and coloured, and then
vanished. But at another seance, soon after this, I was called
up to look again, and this time saw the perfect face, but the
colour much paler than shown at the aperture.
One evening, when we had a seance at the residence of the
medium, we placed as usual a piece of wood forming the
cabinet against the corner of the room, but this time without
the top part. We waited patiently for our fair guest to appear
in this house without roof, and were not a little surprised to
see her peeping out over the top, disregarding the covering
altogether. This was so far a good test, as we could not dis¬
cover anything behind the aperture, whilst the head was just
above it. At other times, when the power seemed not up to
the mark, I perceived only patches, as it were, here and there,
sprinkled on ahead formed of a thin, transparent film, showing
fragments of projections only, as if the quantity of white
matter was not sufficient to cover the whole moulding. Once
an enormously large ruff; (as worn in Queen Elizabeth’s time)
came across the aperture (twelve inches square), revealing its
size by moving, but showing no head, and the medium came
with a shock suddenly out of trance, as usual after an unsuc¬
cessful strong effort. To collect such observations for study¬
ing the scale of formations up to perfect lifelike materialisa¬
tion I consider very important, especially in cases where the
sitters maintained strictly the same conditions.
The conflicting mass of different observations on these won¬
derful formations will keep us back for a long time, if not for
ever, in shaping a satisfactory theory, each of which may
have a germ of truth in it, and none be accepted entirely,
July 30, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
59
therefore I may venture to put my ideas in the scale along
with other vain attempts to solve the riddle. If we compare,
for instance, water with different gases down to the subtlest
ether, the latter may appear, in comparison with what we call
“ spirit,” as solid, as water compared with ether. The water
changes into a hard substance by the process of frost. The
spirit, coming in contact with the aura of the medium, gra¬
dually grows into material being, but in so far widely different,
as it dissolves instantly by the entrance of light; the some¬
times remaining parts melting visibly away, or even lasting,
as reported, in the material plane. The quickness of dissolu¬
tion is beyond our comprehension, but so is the rapidity of a
ray of light, if subjected to ordinary means of observation. But
if we represent, for instance, our globe and sun by two points,
say four inches apart, the movement of the ray taking eight
minutes to reach the earth would appear very slow indeed.f By
this imaginary distance, we may follow the movement clearly
enough, but not at all when attempting to realize the shooting
across close before our eyes. So, then, this process of sudden
dissolving of bodies or other matter previously seen, felt, or even
weighed, will never come home to our understanding while in
the flesh, but the gradual development of spirit-forms may, by
carefully conducted experiments, bring more knowledge. If I
now compare the incomprehensible rapidity of dissolution to
the process of thawing, and (imagine a stone on a crust of
frozen water, which by such quick change of temperature
melts instantly, lets the stone drop, and freezes again, we,
with our slow eye have the illusion of matter passing through
matter. The sceptic may be correct in denying the possi¬
bility ; we merely state the fact. The expression used,
“ brought through closed doors, walls, etc.,” might be avoided,
to prevent confusion, and only the final result stated, without
admitting any form of the modus operandi J such expressions
place the poor inquirer in the position of a blue-bottle dashing
against a window-pane, until he tumbles back benumbed.
Chsisiian Beimees.
Ducie-avenue, Manchester.
THE INFLUENCE OF PURITY OF THE BODY UPON THE PURITY OF
THE SPIRIT.
Sir,—A long time ago you at a conference insisted on the
importance of Spiritualists cultivating “ a pure mind in a
pure body.” I venture to address you on a matter which often
suggested itself to me when pursuing my investigations of
spiritual phenomena in England years ago. It is now nearly
twenty years since my attention was first drawn to the subject
of Spiritualism, and at first I opposed the theory ; but facts,
which I could not otherwise explain, made me a convert, and
I have been for many years a thorough believer in the truth of
spirit intercourse. But as I believe that a sound foundation
for Spiritualism must be a sound materialisation—that a
healthy mind working in a healthy body, is needed to rightly
appreciate spiritual truth—I have frequently been pained to
see Spiritualists setting the laws of nature at defiance, while
pursuing their investigations of the subject; neglecting per¬
sonal cleanliness, plain, simple food, exercise in the open air,
and above all excluding pure air from public places of meet¬
ing. They seemed to think that they might, with impunity,
neglect all physiological duties, because they were engaged in
the study of psychology.
Some years ago I attended a course of addresses of a most
deeply interesting nature by Miss Emma Hardinge, at some
rooms in Harley-street during the winter, to which flocked
ladies and gentlemen in evening costume—which means, in the
case of the ladies, that they were imperfectly clad—who sat
for hours in an atmosphere in which no healthy human
creature could possibly breathe without danger of illness.
Brilliantly lit with gas, which consumed what little oxygen
might be in the room before the company assembled, three or
four hundred people were nightly assembled, without any
means whatever being provided fqr supplying them with pure
air. Exhaling from their bodies pestiferous gases—as unfortu¬
nately all human creatures in their present imperfect condition
are compelled to do—we were all condemned to breathe an
atmosphere from which all healthy material for respiration was
rigorously excluded ; and the heat from the gas, as well as that
emanating from the three or four hundred ” animated stoves”
assembled there, was so extreme, that I had great difficulty—
much as I was interested in the subject of Miss Hardinge’s
addresses—in remaining in such an atmosphere. It pained
me deeply to see those who were engaged in so important an
object so apparently ignorant of the elementary laws of
physiology. Surely, so long as we are here in this stage of
our existence, it is our duty to keep the body—the envelope of
the spirit—in as pure and healthy a condition as possible, in
order that the spirit may not suffer from the disorders of its
material encasement. Nor can I believe that a perfectly pure
spirit can exist in an impure body. A pure spirit and a pure
(a highly-cultivated) mind, in a pure ‘body, is what we all
ought to strive to attain to; and for want of the two latter I fear
that, in too many instances, the spirits attracted to us are
not of a very high order.
I should like to see Spiritualists examples to the rest of the
community of healthfulness of body and of mind, in order to
attract to their doctrines those who look upon Spiritualism as
a sign of a sickly sentimentalism. M. D.
Wiesbaden.
Allan Kardec’s “ Spirits’ Book.”—Before giving an
extended review of Allan Kardec’s Spirits' Book, introduced to
the English public last week in the shape of Miss Anna Black¬
well’s translation, it may be stated that the work deals with
many other problems connected with Spiritualism than Kar-
deo’s reincarnation speculations, and the book is characterised
by a refined, elegant style and deep thought, so that it is cal¬
culated to deeply interest all thinkers connected with the
spiritual movement. A work written in a more philosophical
style has never yet been published in the English language in
connection with Spiritualism, and it is sure to interest all
readers, whatever may be their opinions about the reincarna¬
tion doctrine. It is a book for which there will be a growing
demand the more it is known, although its progress, like that
of all works of the kind, will be slow.
A Gift to the “ Banner of Light.”—We have received
from our esteemed English friends, Mr. and Mrs. Tebb,
7, Albert-road Gloucester-gate, Begent’s-park, N.W., London,
two fine photographic views to be added to the decorations in
the Public Free Circle Boom of the Banner of Light, and also
an interesting collection of spirit-photographs. Mrs. Tebb, in
her letter of transmittal, speaks in happy retrospect concern¬
ing the visit paid by herself and husband to our circle-room
during their tour in America, and also with reference to our
ascended co-worker William White, who then presided at these
seances. The two views are of large size, and represent,
respectively, Le Maison de Mozart, executed under spirit
influence by the celebrated French dramatist Yictorien Sardou,
and a scene in water-colours, intended to illustrate one of the
“ many mansions ” in spirit-life, painted by the medium Mis,s
Houghton, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.,
London. The sketch of Sardou was engraved by him
under spirit-direction upon a metal plate which he prepared,
no previous design having been made as a guide. As these
two pictures will be on exhibition at this office, we will
attempt no description thereof, but invite the public to call and
view them.—Banner of Light, July 11th.
Freaks of Jesse Sheppard.—In a moment of abnormal
trance, or in the innocence of the simplicity of an over-con¬
fiding nature, the editor of the Religio-Philosophical Journal
(Chicago) has permitted Jesse Sheppard, the young ” musical
medium ”—who is not unknown in England—to publish as
much as he pleased about his adventures in Europe, more
especially in Bussia. The effect of this has been that that
young gentleman has written column after column of large
type matter, in which he has drawn upon his inventive powers
with the utmost freedom. Madame Blavatsky, a Bussian
lady now in New York, has consequently given him a good
whipping in the Spiritual Scientist for his romancing about
places and persons in Bussia, and she informs American
Spiritualists that the '* old palace,” which to Jesse Sheppard’s
eye “ wore an appearance of dilapidation and decay worthy of
a castle in the middle ages,” is an every-day modern-looking
respectable building. The following is a sample of Jesse Shep¬
pard’s style, quoting from a description of an alleged journey
made by “Princess N.” and himself:—“But we were still to
experience another sensation, in which two full-blooded Bus-
sian steeds bore us flying through the wild pine forests, up the
hills and down the ravines, to the palace, in danger every
second of being dashed down the wild steeps of the mountains.
On the horses galloped with augmented fury and swifter
speed, making the dust fly on all sides, and tearing the car¬
riage through the roughest' places in the rough road, the
Princess all the time saying Bussian prayers, and calling upon
saints for safe arrival, while I, with an odd appreciation of the
curious surroundings, strange scenes, and ludicrous situation,
laughed as I hardly ever laughed, for I knew that we should
arrive safe at the palace-garden, and was sure that the horses
were hurried on with double speed by an unseen power.”
60
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 30, 1875.
BEECHER AND SPIRITS.
In his sermon on the last Sunday in Jane, Mr. Beecher
freed his thoughts marvellously on the subject of spirit pre¬
sence, spirit influence, and spirit communication. All tiiat we
propose to do is to give the readers ©f the Banner of Light a
few running extracts, that they may see that Spiritualism, as
we have repeatly assured them, is getting into the churches.
The “ great cloud of witnesses,” he said, spoken of by the
writer of the book of Hebrews, whoever he was, was not, to
his mind, merely historic; there was vitality in them. Men
in recognising them did not look back to the names of honour
and of victory, but they were surrounded by them. They were
described as hovering in the heavens, and by their down-look¬
ing and in-looking, exhorting men to take heart and bear
themselves circumspectly. The spirits of just men made
perfect watched the toiling masses below, and encouraged
them by their example. The commerce of the body was
limited, but every one was conscious that he lived much more
with men he had never seen, and whose figures he could not
imagine, but whose poetry, history, or religious meditations
he read. These took a greater hold upon him, and influenced
him, imperceptibly, perhaps, but very surely, much more than
bodily communion with those around him.
Mr. Beecher said “ true connections were by the mind, not
by the body; the soul was the candle, the body only the
candlestick. When a friend died the mourners moaned,
‘ Gone, gone, gone; ’ but he was not gone: he was within the
reach of voice, of memory, of love. Your father, mother,
pastor, friend, are a thousand times nearer now than when they
sat on the seat beside you and read from the same book; they
are nearer by the love and sympathy begotten of their own
experience.” “Angels,” he said, “I know are mirthful; if
they are not they cannot sympathise with me; they are full of
heavenly humour, and when they see us shudder in terror as
we enter the dark cave, I don’t wonder that they laugh, for
they know the glory and the brightness that lie just beyond.
Certainly there must be some vein of humour in the angelic
choir that is touched, when they see us fighting shadows,
crying at joy and rejoieing over tears, thinking ourselves
beaten when we are triumphant, and triumphant when we are
defeated, if we only knew it.”
“ Finally,” said Mr. Beecher, “ I know that there is a cloud
of witnesses who watch me as I toil on. I am under their
supervision, and they encourage me, raise me, push me on¬
ward and upward, for they have walked as I walk, and toiled
as I toil. In this thought of the other life weakness is made
strong, riches cease to be our masters, and bodily pleasures
are no longer tyrants. Living and dying it helps us, and at
the end, when life flows out that life may flow in, when,
leaving bowed heads and streaming eyes behind us, we shall
have ascended but a little way, when, being caught up into
the glory of God, the first glance will tell us that Our most
extravagant conceptions are infinitely surpassed. Be patient;
endure to the end; and when we meet in heaven, as we
assuredly shall meet, we will join hands and thank Him who
brought us there amid a cloud of witnesses, saying, ‘ Not
unto us, not unto us, but to Thy name, 0 Lord, be all the
praise of men.’ ”—Banner of Light, July 17th.
Mu. Martheze, who was rumoured in error to have left
England for the Continent, is at Brighton.
Miss Eislingbttry, the Secretary to the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists, has left London for Brighton, and will
return to town next Monday week.
M. Aksaxof intends to come to England in September,
in company with Professor Butlerow. The latter gentleman
will first visit Gratz. M. Aksakof is now in the village of
Krohofka, Government of Samara, Russia.
Mediums Wanted at St. Petersburg.—In reference to
the proposed investigation of spiritual phenomena by the
committee appointed from among the professors at St. Peters¬
burg University, M. Alexandre Aksakof has written to Mr.
Harrison, authorising him to make arrangements with such
mediums in this country as may desire to go to St. Petersburg
to be tested, and who may be deemed suitable mediums for
that purpose. Mr. Harrison has recommended M. Aksakof
first of all to get some guarantee from the St. Petersburg pro¬
fessors that the mediums will be well and fairly treated, after
which he recommends that the Davenport Brothers shall be
secured if possible, that the results of their mediumship may
be examined.
Mr. J. H. Gledstanes has made a present to the National
Association of Spiritualists of his apparatus for imitating
physical manifestations, a la Maskelyne and Cook. Mr. S. C.
Hall has presented a framed beautifully drawn portrait of
himself to the Association.
Spiritualism in Brighton.—Mr. John Bray, of 82,
St. James’s-street, Brighton, writes:—“ We have seances
nearly every night, and after much perseverance we get at last
good manifestations. Last night we had a very heavy table
floated three feet in the air and suspended for quite forty
seconds. Our chief medium gives some wonderful tests; in
her presence the spirits give their names to inquiring relatives
present.”
Aid for Mr. Firman.—In consequence of the false
charges of Buguet, Mr. Firman has voluntarily gone to prison
for six months, for it was proved in Court that those who pro¬
vided bail for him had told him he might let them forfeit it if
he liked, and that he might return to England. A subscription
list has been opened for the benefit of Mr. Firman and his
wife, and about £15 has been collected up to the present time.
Miss Kislingbury, of 38, Great Rnssell-street, is secretary to
the fund.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
M.—Weekly newspapers are sent to America by post; our remark
of last week refers to the time when he was the only person in
this country who had business relations with William White
and Co., now Messrs. Colby and Rich, when a channel for making
remittances was opened between them, and when he was the
only person to whom they looked for the supply of our English
monthly periodicals.
B., Edinburgh.—We believe the statement you quote to be true.
Brighton spiritual union rooms, 82, si.
James’s-street, Brighton. Open daily. Seances free on Sundays,
Monday and Wednesday evenings. As there is no Subscription for Mem¬
bership, the Secretary cl»ims the privilege of each Member being kuown to
him personally before nomination. All Spiritualist publicaiions on sale.
JOHN BRAY, Son. Sec.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen's-mad,
Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. J. COATES, Principal.
OUL READING; or, Psychometrical Delineation
OF Cbaeaoter.—J. MURRAY SPEAR announces to his numerous
English Friends that by the aid of Spiri'-Intelligences he delineates cha¬
racter, describes mental and spiritual capacities, and sometimes indicates
their future and best vocations for health, business, and harmony. Persons
desiring information of this sort should send him their autograph, stating
age and sex, and forward by Post-offloe Order Nine Shillings; or for three
delineati >ns to one address, a Guinea. Address: 2,210, Mount Vernon-
street, Philadelphia, Pa., U. S.
THE SPIRITS’ BOOK. Containing the Principles of
SPIRITIST DOCTRINE in the Immortality of the Soul, &c., &e.,
according to the Teachings of Spirits of High Degree, transmitted through
various Mediums, collected and set in order by ALLAN EAR DEG. Trans¬
lated by ANNA BLACKWELL. Or. 8vo, pp. 512, cloth, 7s. 6d. London:
Trubner & Co., 57 $ 59, Ludgate-hill.
THE SOUL OF THINGS;
OR, PSYCHOMETRIC RESEARCHES AND DISCOVERIES.
In Three Volumes, Fourth Edition.
By William and Elizabeth M. f. Denton.
“ We have here a marvellous book. It is calm, and seems perfectly
sincere, and yet it makes larger drafts upon our credulity than any work
we ever before met with. The old alchemists never conceived of anything
half so strange. Spiritualism, with all its wonders, is scarcely a vestibule
to what we are introduced to here.
“ Were there any reliance to be placed on these revelations, it would be
impossible to estima'e the value of this newly-discovered power. It would
resolve a thousand doubts and difficulties, make geolegy as plain as day,
and throw light on all the grave subjects that time has so effectually ob¬
scured.”—New York Christian Ambassador.
“ In the varied wonders they describe there is a peculiar apd intense
interest. If what is claimed in this book be true, it records the most
remarkable discovery yet made as regards the capacities of the human
mind in its abnormal state.”—Norfolk County Journal.
« There is much extraordinary ma'ter in these pages. It is a volume em¬
phatically deserving of the reader’s choicest study.”—Boston Traveller.
“ Though as concise as a text-book, we read The Soul of Things with the
fascination of a work of fiction. Indeed, it is truth itself, stranger than
fiction, written in the vivid style which is a part of Mr. Depton’s remark¬
able power.”—American Spiritualist.
Price 8s. per volume.
Spiritualist Newspaper BranchOffice, 38, Great Russell-st., London W.C
July 30, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
m
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY f, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST" NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by tbe TTon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con-
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit ,
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of tbe Dialec-
itical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 16s. ; moderately abridged edition. 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes, E.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, E.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epos
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. fid.
CONCERNING- SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York. U S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. fid.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED. by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
" chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 16s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker,.and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents: The Anti-Supernaturalism of the Present Age;
Science and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine: Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology ; Miracles and Science;
the Spirit and the. Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism ; Thoughts
i '■ on Spiritualism; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles and Pneumatology;
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. 12mo., 600 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences, is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the .Mastodon and
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrrounded. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt as to the
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to tbe reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability of
clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs.'Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says :—'‘Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of all the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their Instructions.”
6s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell.) 7s. 6d.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits through the
mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is sometimes made by disbelievers
that spirit messages are of a trumpery character, but these beautiful poems
give evidence that all Spirit utterances are not so. The “ The Prophecy of
Vala,” published in this book and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar
Allen Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole of his life
on earth. Best edition. Gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition, 7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through the medium-
ship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work, is a collection of beautifu
poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Ool. H. S. Oleott.
Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. William Crookes and
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author is a literary gentleman of high stand¬
ing in New York, and the book consists of descriptions of seances at which
materialised spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers, their homestead,
and the phenomena presented at their seances, are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS LIFE. By
Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER WHICH
HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS. By Allan Putnam.
6s.
THE CELESTIAL TELEGRAPH, OR SECRETS OF THE
LIFE TO COME. Proved by many years experiments by means of eight
ecstatic somnambulists. Oahagnet, 10s.
HOW AND WHY 1 BECAME A SPIRITUALIST. By Wash¬
ington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces of music
and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams. 6s.
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a public
trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet,
with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspirationally through
the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7& fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL MAN
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle. This book argues
that man is contemporary with the Mastodon, and details the history of his
subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS, -OR GENESIS AND
GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen. 3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the testimony of
the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a vision of
scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, OR MESSAGES FOR THE BEREAVED
FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY. Christian spirit-messages given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of, and
advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. fid.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vqls., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles
5s. 6d.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES', by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s rans-
lation.) 7s. fid.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d. .
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM
7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
15S.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
book, containing messages given by Spirits through the Writing Mediumship
of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU, giving
information about Spiritual Phenomena among the Amazulu and other Tribe*
of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon Callaway, M B., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION INTO
THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Thoma* P.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the Rev.
Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO
MATTER. By 0. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Hugh
•Farmer, 1766. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOPATHY; OR, THE TRUE HEALING ART, by
Joseph Ashman. 4 Is.
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST. July 30, 1875.
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Contains Records
of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnambulism, and Clairvoyance, and
; philosophical considerations connected therewith. This work gained the prize
offered for competition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 3s. 6d.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith, formerly Editor
of the “ Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s. *
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS,
T/ie “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . . ..76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . . . ; . . 7 6
The Seer. „ III. „ . , . ' ' .. ..76
The Reformer. „ IV. . ... . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . ■ . ' , . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . . : . . .-76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . . .40
Arabula, or Divine Guest . ... . , . .76
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology . . ..50
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People . . , .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .',,.40
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . . . .40
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age . . . . . .40
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) .. . . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . .... .30
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion. . . , . .40
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . . . .80
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . . . .66
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained .. . . ..76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . . . .50
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime . . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . , . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology , . , . . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . , , . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
Oriental Religions (Johnson) ........
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recommended by
The SpibituaXiIst Newspaper .1 . . .. .. .
Keys of the Creeds ..... . . . . .
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing interesting particulars
and legends relating to Buddhism
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) .....
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . - .
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) .
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) .....
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . . .
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from China to India
• (400 a. n. and 618 a.d.). Translated from the Chinese by Samuel Beal,
B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. ■ . • . . . ’ . .
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus, by the Rev
Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . .
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English, with Pre
liminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. .
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Talcs and Superstitions interpreted by Com
parative Mythology, by John Fiske, M. A. \ .
Awas-I-Hind, or A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer
The Life and Works of Mencius/ Translated into English from the Chinese
Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . . . . .
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Explanation of the
Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism,
Vital Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous
Congestion, by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . , .
The Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, Secretary of the
Legation of the United States of America at Constantinople
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul heyond the Grave,
by the Rev. John Paul, B. A. . . ,
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North Germany, and the
Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In three vols. . ...
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed. Translated into
English immediately from the original Arabic, by George Sale
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, E.R.A.S. Special edition
for Schools . ... . . > . .
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales Forster. A
useful Tract for Inouirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. New¬
ton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WlNG; a Narrative of the Travels
and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev. J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MED1UMSHIP, by Thomas R. Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Personal Expe¬
riences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a Gentleman of Education
and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Serjeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM NOT
ORTHODOX, by i J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of this little pam¬
phlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine good feeling, sound common
sense, and deep thought.” 6d,
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2d.
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELEBRATED
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie Doten; 4. Mr.
Luther Colby: 5. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late Mr. William White; 7. Dr.
Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M. Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J'. Davis; 10. Mrs.
Conan t.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY WARD
BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each. .   - -
THE LIYEEPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Russell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitehman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is tbe discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
Experiences of hafed, prince of Persia:
Communications in Trance through MR. DAVID DUGUID. With
Introduction and Appendix.
The Subscriber, in response to oft-repeated and earnest request, pro¬
poses to publish these Communications, the accumulation of the last five
years, so soon as the Subscription List indicates that they are wanted by
the Spiritual community.1
The proposed volume will extend to not less than 550 demy 8vo. pages
(the size of the Spiritual Magazine or Human Nature), and will contain,
besides the Experiences of Hafed, about 500 Answers to Questions, many
of these on subjects of the greatest interest; Communications from
Hermes, once an Egyptian priest, afterwards a personal follower of Jesus;
an Introduction, in which is given, along with some explanatory informa¬
tion, an account of. the Mediumship of Mr. David Duguid, the Glasgow
Painting Medium; and an Appendix, containing very many interesting
communications from Ruisdal and Steen, the old Dutch masters—Copies
of Direct Writings in Hebrew, Greek, Latin, and English—and a Brief
Statement of the Extraordinary Phenomena occurring under Mr. Duguid’s
mediumship.
The volume will be illustrated by 24 Lithograph Pictures, being fac¬
similes of Direct Drawings, the work of the Spirit Artists at sittings spe¬
cially appointed for their production. (For specimens of these nee Spiritual
Magazine and Human Nature for May.) Various facsimiles of Direct
Writings will also be given in the body of the work and in the copious
appendix.
The book, which will be got up in the neatest and most substantial style,
will be sent to subscribers free for 10s. Subscribers for 6 copies will
receive 7 copies for the price of 6.
It is respectfully requested that, in the meantime, Subscribers’ Names
and Addresses be sent without delay to Mrs. Evisritf, Lillian-villa, Hen-
don, N.W; or to Mr. T. Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston.
In the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in th e
tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
,, . 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
,, 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER; AND
MR. F. PITMAN, PATERNOSTER-ROW, LONDON;
who have kindly consented to reeeive orders for the same.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lano London E.O.
