A RECORD
OF THE PROQF}E££ OF THE ^CIEJHCE AND ETHICS
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
OF 3PIF(ITUAJLIjSM,
No. 66.—(Yol., III.—No. 27.) LONDON: NOVEMBER 28, 1873. Published Weekly; Price Threepence.
WEEKLY PUBLICATION OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST.”
The weekly publication of The. Spiritualist began on
Nov. 14th, and the price is reduced to THREEPENCE.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. L The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
National Organisation of Spiritualists    ... 418
French Testimonial to Mrs. Tappan   419
Horrible Spiritual Manifesta'ions     ... 420
Spirit Forms in America   ... 421
A Trance Lecture '■  423
Seances at Mr. Jencken’s House   425
The National Association of Spiritualists   425
The Sudden Death of a Spiritualist in Birmingham  426
Poetry: The Angel   ... 427
Correspondenee : A Haunted House in London; The Testimonial to
Judge Edmonds; Miss Lottie Fowler’s Mediumship ; The Treat¬
ment of Mediums; Madame Louise’s Mediumship; The Meeting at
South-place Chapel, Finsbury; Orthodox Spirit Messages   427
Poems by a Spiritualist' ...     ... 430
Effects of Impepo Eating upon Clairvoyance   4-'0
‘1 Vanity Fair ” on Spiritualism    431
Answers to Correspondents  •   430
Paragraphs.—Anthropology in France, 419; Judge Edmond’s Tes¬
timonial, 419; Queen Victoria on Sectarian Education, 424; Dr.
Sexton at Manchester, 424; The Death of Mr. Hawkes  429
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 8s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland $ Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter's-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o'clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Hon. Sec.
CHAP.
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
13. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
271 Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
works.
29. Of the Will.'
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny..
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima.
32. - The Argument.
33. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. The Natural and the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of.the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and not
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable book.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I ?”—Leicester Mercury.
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morning Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of life.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest —South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all praise.—.iVorwic/i Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.^
London: Longman and Co.7 Paternoster-row.
B
IRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
THE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News¬
paper. Weekly—One Penny.
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL ARTICLES,
BY INDEPENDENT WRITERS.
Full Reports of Home, Foreign,, and General News. Law and Police.
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIRST WRITERS.
Publishing Office; 125, Fleet-street. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Seances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary. 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly; IPs. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation ot £2 2s. Prospenus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED I). LOVELL, President.
THOMAS BLYTON, Secretary and Treasurer.
418
THE SPIRITUALIST. Nov. 28, 1873.
Spmtali&t
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten-words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of “The Spiritualist” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publishes', Mr, E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be inf aimed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Bochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 333, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Keamey-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is IQs., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
D ALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Council.
Mr. George Blyton, I Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mrs. Amelia Corner, Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. E.J. Wilson.
Secretary & Treasurer.—Mi’. Thomas Blyton.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modern Spiritualism. •
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
S p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on l\ie first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, atthe Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies.
SPIRITUALISM AND SCIENCE.
THE SERIES OF LECTURES as above, by MRS.
CORA L. Y. TAPPAN—so successfully inaugurated on the evening
of the 23rd October—at Westbourne Hall,
ARE NOW BEINO DELIVERED
EVERY WEDNESDAY EVENING AT LAWSON’S ROOMS,
145, GOWER-STREET.
Doors open at 7. 30. Admission, Is. and 6d. each.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter,' | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
VE£I
soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
England the subject attracted attention in jClerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, S 6
Gos’well-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
.are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfield-street, Islington.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Treasurer.—Mr. Joseph Dinsdale. Librarian.—Mr. John Moore.
Committee of Management.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. Ambrose Egerton.
Mr. John Mayle.
Mrs. M. A. Richardson.
Mr. Wm. Richardson.
Mrs. L. A. Lamont.
Mrs. Eliza Clement.
Mrs. S. A. Spring.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. George Shaw.
Mr. John Lamont.
Auditors.
Mr. Edwin Banks. | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Secretaries.
Financial and Recording Mr. John Chapman, 10, Dunkeld Street,
West Derby Road, Liverpool.
, Corresponding.  Mr. J. Y. Flannery, Momington Terrace,
Seacombe, near Liverpool.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others; for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
NATIONAL ORGANISATION OF SPIRITUALISTS,
By the report, published in another column* it Will
be seen that the Council has not widened the scope of
its fundamental rule (Rule II.), but has brought about
the same result by an addition to another. The only
point for consideration this leaves oped, Is that tho
public, when inquiring into the objects of any organised
body read its fundamental rule and do not trouble
themselves to examine those which follow. Moreover,
it is customary to quote such rule in many circulars and
public placards, so that the question arises whether it
is wise to be obliged to quote two rules to show the
objects of the Association, or to quote one which is
palpably not so wide and national as it might be in its
scope. When dissensions arise in organised bodies the
malcontents commonly complain that the foundation
rule is broken, and if the rule chances to be one which
goes into details, and is not broad and general, it is sure
at times to present points easily attacked. The stated
objects of the British Association for the Advancement
THE SPIRITUALIST.
419
Nov. 28, 1873.
of Science appear to be wide and national in the highest
sense, yet at times the rule has caused much discussion.
However, the gentlemen who have given so much time
and work disinterestedly in drawing up the rules of the
National Association are more competent to decide on
such points than ourselves, who know nothing of the
proceedings of the Council, or the arguments for or
against any particular line of action, except from
hearsay.
-Steps-have been taken to induce Spiritualists in the
colonies and in British India to co-operate with the
present National Association, which now has forty-one
working members of the Council, all devoted Spiritualists,
who have entered upon this work from a sense of public
duty. The ground being thus prepared, the Council has
to be still further enlarged, and presidents and vice-
presidents appointed. The real strength of the Asso¬
ciation will lie in its gaining a reputation as a faultless
organisation for the economical administi'ation of funds,
so that Spiritualists shall have confidence that it does
the maximum amount of work, with the minimum of
expenditure, and that it will incur no liabilities until it
has funds enough already in hand to liquidate the
same.
If the Council held monthly meetings, to which
reporters were admitted, and at which passing events of
interest to Spiritualists were considered, thus virtually
constituting itself a little representative parliament con¬
nected with Spiritualism, such a line of action would
tend to keep up the public interest in its proceedings.
A FRENCH TESTIMONIAL TO MRS. TAPP AN.
On Tuesday, November 18th, Dr. E. B. Boulland, reporter
to La Revue Sjririte, had the honour, in company with Mrs.
Catherine Woodforde, of presenting a complimentary letter
from the Society of Spiritualists in Paris to Mrs. Cora L. V.
Tappan.
Dr. Boulland.was the bearer also of a bouquet of sweetly-
scented violets, surrounded by fresh winter flowers, which
having presented to Mrs. Tappan, he proceeded to read the
following address :—
“ Madam,—The echoes of your spiritual and instructive
orations are repeating themselves loudly in that great and
beautiful City of Paris, as well as all over France, my country;
so much so that the honourable Society of Spiritualists have
been moved to address you a letter of salutation and welcome,
which they have desired me, as their reporter, to deliver into
your own hands.
“ Our friend, Mrs. Woodforde, has been so kind as to trans¬
late it, for I must confess to you I was doubtful of my own
competency to do it justice, the style of said letter being so
high; but nothing too high for a lady of your eminence.
“ Madam, allow me to tell you that for a long time I have
been looking for the truth regarding my future life, like a
feeble child looking for some flowers in an uncultivated land
.—I mean in this selfish world—when all at once I have had
the good fortune to find some violets—in other words, our
beautiful Spiritualism—tbb perfume of which you have sent
forth so generously amongst us since your arrival in London,
and for which our brothers in France, and I come to-day to
thank you for humanity at large.
“ With your permission, madam, Mrs. Woodforde will read
the letter to you.”
Mrs. Woodforde then read the letter, as follows:—
“ Revue Spirits. Sciences Psychologiques. Founded
BY THE LATE ALLAN KARDEC.
“ To Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, London.
“ Madam, and dear sister in spirit,—Through our reporter
and brother in Spiritualism, the Honourable Monsieur E. B.
Boulland, we' are informed of all the remarkable Spiritualistic
events of the day in England. Accordingly we have received
accounts of your inspirational discourses, in which you deliver
the teachings of spirits of the Most High. Inspired medium !
Your incomparable eloquence is for us a proof that you are
yourself exceptionally an incarnated spirit, commissioned to
teach the truth, to destroy materialism and positivism.
“ Continue your work, noble spirit, distinguished woman !
Prove to unbelievers that the soul, leaving invisibly its
Maker’s hand, has, by virtue of its free will, been enabled to
ascend gradually along each progressive step of the ladder
which marks the three kingdoms of nature, connecting thus
the mineral with man, the most perfect animal; and working
out the ever continuous chain which, commencing in the
atom, ends in the Infinite—in Him from whom all is.
“ Humble labourer in that field opened to you by thespirits,
in the name of the ‘ Society for the continuation of the
spiritual works of Allan Kardec,’ I offer you the salutations of
a brother, and the sincere vows of a pure friendship.
“ Solicit the inspirations of your spirit guides, and in all
your assemblies repeat, that in France a numerous school,
possessing its millions of adepts, extends the hand to brother
Spiritualists of England; that throughout Europe and
America we should all be united for strength, and to avert the
machinations of those zealous bigots who would teach
that Spiritualists cannot aid each other, unless they
receive from the higher world the same revelations,
and form the same deductions. We know that terres¬
trial humanity forms, after death, the celestial humanity ;
that we take with us there above our knowledge and
our virtues, and that if our natures are either passionate,
egotistical, or vindictive; or good, generous, charitable,
and benevolent, we shall give to mortals communications
and inspirations similar to our own sentiments, having
upon them the distinctive marks of our personality. In nature
no two leaves are alike ; in a numerous family every child has
its own peculiar genius; in a people every individual possesses
his own especial merit; in the universe the planets which roll
through space are marked by dissimilarity in volume, in
density, in their periodic revolutions;—the same wide diversi¬
ties mark the different nations upon this terrestrial globe.
There is then a primordial law infinitely wise, and provi¬
dential, a law of harmony existing in the midst of diversity,
to which we should render homage.
“ Let us then, brethren, receive the various inspirations of
our guardian spirits, gathering together their instructions,
and holding ourselves free to reject the tares, whilst we nourish
our souls upon the grains of truth. Let us not believe our¬
selves perfect, and the possessors of absolute truth, but rather
of relative truths, which may change on the morrow,—since
the messengers of God give to us only according to our intel¬
lectual capacity.
“Yes, respected, and inspired sister, let us dove each other
in the spirit of humanity, rejecting that selfish individuality
which marks the man-animal.
“ The smallest particles of stone, ground, and pulverised in
the processes of nature, may become the worm, the winged
insect, the beautiful flower, the bird of brilliant plumage, the
elephant so wise and benevolent, the raging tiger of the jungle,
the watch-dog, or the peaceful ruminant:—the molecule be¬
comes the man, and after the lapse of a million ages, this
king of animals has reached an epoch when incarnated
angels, like yourself, are inspired to guide him to the Infinite
—to God!
“Soliciting His blessings upon you, my sister, I am yours,
“ P. Gleymarie.
“ The Editor-in-chief of La lievue Spirite.
“ Rue de Fille, 7, Paris, 5th Nov., 1873.”
The letter having been read, Mrs. Tappan responded,
thanking, in a few graceful sentences, her visitors, and
through them the Society of Paris, when the interview ter¬
minated.
Anthropology in France.—A recent number of the
Revue Scientifique contains a notice of the proceedings of the
Anthropological Institute; and also gives an outline of the
paper read before it by Mr. George Harris, F.S.A., on the
“ Hereditary Transmission of Features and Qualities of Dif¬
ferent Kinds.”
Judge Edmond’s Testimonial.—The address to Judge
Edmonds, beautifully illuminated and framed, together with
the books of English authors on Spiritualism, uniformly
bound in calf, and the albums that are to be presented to
him, are on view at Messrs. Henry Sothefan and Co., Ceramic
Court, Crystal Palace. Subscriptions, and the photographic
likenesses of subscribers, should be sent, without delay to
Mr. Benjamin Coleman, 1, Bernard Yillas, Upper Norwood,
S.E.
420
THE SElliITtrALlST.
HORRIBLE SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.-
BY EMMA HARDINGE.
To those unfamiliar with San Francisco, or to whom
the remarkable manifestations about to be narrated are
strange and apparently incredible, I beg to state that the
chief of my narrative is supplied by four eye-witnesses
of.the facts, two of whom are ladies; my other in¬
formants being a highly respected member of the police
fdrce, and a well-known merchant of San Francisco,
whose testimony alone would be considered authoritative
in any court of justice in the State.
About two years ago it was rumoured that a family
residing on the very summit of one of those towering
hills that environ San Francisco, and constitute the
principal site of its beautiful though almost inaccessible
residences, had been holding circles, and obtaining some
very strong, though repulsive, manifestations. The
father of the family, a respectable mechanic, had re¬
cently married a second wife, a woman of a most
amiable disposition and excellent character, and amongst
the family of the first wife, consisting of several
daughters, it was found that two or three of them were
mediums. The chief power of the manifestations, how¬
ever, appeared to rest with the eldest daughter, a hand¬
some girl of eighteen, about whom very scandalous
reports had been unhappily rife among her neighbours.
When the fact of strong spiritual manifestations oc¬
curring in this family became generally known, pain¬
fully suspicious circumstances were revived in con¬
nection with the young woman’s deceased mother. It
was affirmed that her spirit appeared in company with
several others who had died violent deaths, and whose
former residence in the same place as the medium now
inhabited had procured an evil name for that locality.
Murder, suicide, and crimes of the most appalling
nature had been, it was known, practised in that
vicinity, and though the actors in these dark tragedies,
like the unfortunate mother of the girl, were now
spirits, it was confidently affirmed that the manifesta¬
tions complained of by the neighbours, rendering the
place as terrible as it had formerly been notorious,
proceeded from these unquiet spirits. The furniture of
» the possessed house was broken, and thrown about with
wanton violence. Dreadful noises, mingled with cries,
groans, and mocking laughter, were heard. The dresses
of the females were pinned together by unseen hands,
or rent from them ; and, as the climax of the disturb¬
ances, the eldest girl was not only haunted by ghastly
figures, whose shocking apparitions threw her into
fainting fits, but these spectres actually marked her
dress, person, and face with large spots of blood. This
last phase of the phenomena was so frequent and ter¬
rible that the poor mother-in-law called upon some of
the most respectable and prominent Spiritualists of the
city, and solicited their advice and assistance, if pos¬
sible, to exorcise the tormentors who beset the unhappy
gii'1-
When my friends first visited this family, they found
this persecuted girl, as might have been expected, in a
highly nervous and excitable condition, deadly pale, and
apparently suffering from the effects of a severe illness,
for which common report assigned the most scandalous
origin. During the first spiritual seance held with this
young person, my friends, Mrs. T and Mrs. D .,
represent her as sitting apart, pale, depressed, and ap-
* This narrative is extracted from Mrs, Hard’nge’s Modern American
Spiritualism.
Nov. 28, 18?3.
parently uninterested in the proceedings, of the rest of
the party.
There were about a dozen persons present, and the
hour for the seance had, at the request of the ladies,
been fixed at twelve, noon, objections of a cogent nature
being urged to evening circles, when the manifestations
became boisterous and unendurable. At first only faint
raps were heard in different parts of the room, but soon
the young girl exhibited a mortal fear in her attitude
and features, and shrank back as if from the approach of
a frightful object. Instantly, and while every eye was
fixed upon her, she sank back in her chair in a swoon,
and there, in the broad glare of the sunlight, appeared
on her face, which, the moment before, was perfectly
white and colourless, a large patch of wet, reeking
blood, one of her cheeks being marked exactly as if
struck with a bloody hand.
On approaching the swooning figure, a second patch
appeared on the other cheek, and as she stretched out
her hand as if to ward off an invisible foe, another wet
and reeking stain instantaneously became manifest on
its palm. The ladies present procured a wash-bowl
and removed the stains from the young woman’s face
and hand; but though they replaced her in the chair,
restored her to consciousness, and never for one moment
lost sight of her, nor suffered a single movement to
escape them, this terrible phenomenon was repeated
five times in less than an hour. Each time, the ladies
washed off the stain. They affirm what the whole circle
attested: that the girl never moved from her seat; that
her eyes were generally closed: her face, except when
stained by the sudden and ensanguined marks, as pale
as death, and not a movement was made by her except
from time to time to extend her hands in the attitude
of one who attempts to drive off. some approaching
object: and it was at such moments that the blood¬
stains instantaneously appeared on her hands, face, and
throat. At last the unfortunate medium seemed to be¬
come so utterly prostrate that the circle, appalled and
disgusted, broke up, and the ladies in attendance pro¬
posed to help her mother-in-law to remove her to her
chamber. For this purpose two of the ladies (Mrs.
T  and Mrs. S ) placed themselves on either
side of the medium, to lead her out; but just as they
reached the door they each simultaneously received some
kind of propelling power that drove them backwards,
as if by a galvanic shock, and once more the clear and
distinct mark of a bloody hand and fingers was im¬
printed on the young girl’s neck.
With much difficulty, and after several similar
attempts and rebuffs, they succeeded in supporting her
to the head of the stairs, when the sound of a heavy
fall drew the rest of the circle from the room below.
There they found the ladies reclining against the wall,
equally terrified - and exhausted. The medium had
fallen to the ground, and the face, neck, and dress of one
of the ladies were stained with large splashes of fresh
wet blood.
Arrived at last, by aid of assistants, at the chamber,
the girl was laid upon her bed, when a young sister of
the medium’s declared that the “ Spanish girl” was
already lying on the pillow; the next moment the
pillow where they laid the girl down was observed to
be crimsoned, with blood. The younger children always
insisted that these frightful marks were made “ by a
Spanish girl,” who followed their, sister about. She
had her throat cut, they said; and another apparition
who helped to make the marks was their mother, whom
THE SPIRITUALIST.
421
Nov. 28, 1873.
they represented as reproaching her daughter with an
infamous life 
This is but a small portion of this singular and
revolting history. The merchant to whom I before
alluded as one of my informants, Hr. B , assured
me that, curious to witness this remarkable pheno¬
menon, he one day went to the house with a member
of the police force who had frequently attended the
weird circles held there, though he was unwilling to
acknowledge that he had done so. Hr. B and
the policeman, observing the girl leaning out of the
parlour window, stopped and conversed with her.
Suddenly she drew back with a look of horror, when
one of the hands she extended toward off some, invisible
danger, and one side of her pallid face, were instantly
covered with blood.
The quality of this fluid has been several times
analysed, and always corresponds to that of human
blood.
The manifestations occurred during many months,
and the persons in whose presence they transpired are
so numerous that no phenomena are more abundantly
witnessed. The police at length interfered to stop the
circles, and the affair gradually died out with the
removal of the young woman from her father’s house.
The family at last denied entrance to the curious,
and insisted that no further publicity should be given
to the subject in connection with their names, on pain
of prosecution.
The tongue of rumour, which could not be thus silenced,
attributed to the unhappy daughter and her spirit
mother such practices as would render this ghastly
phenomenon singularly significant. It is alleged that
the family, having severed their connection with the
unfortunate medium, have resolutely protested against
further intercourse with Spiritualists, and live in strict
seclusion ; hence I do not feel at liberty to give their
names or those of the witnesses to these facts, except
in private. Any one can obtain this information from
ine, however-, that will pledge themselves to use it only
in questioning the witnesses, not in harassing the
family, whose peace of mind and respectability they are
said to have materially affected.
SPIRIT FORMS IN AMERICA.
From The Religio-Philosophical Journal (Chicago,
November 8th, 1873).
Mr. E. J. Stout, of La Grange, Hissouri, writes:
“ Ox Thursday, September 4th, my wife and I visited
Memphis, for the purpose of attending a few seances.
We have been present at five in all since the publication
of my letter in the Religio-PMlosophical Journal, and
I thought I would give you a synopsis of what trans¬
pired at the seances attended by myself and wife,
September 4th, 7th, 11th, 14th, and 16th.
“ On Thursday night the circle was formed as usual,
the medium securely handcuffed, the key given to one
of the audience, the lights turned down, a couple of
songs sung, when whiz came the rope out of the
upper opening; and here, please remember, that this
upper aperture is so high that the tallest men can
but just reach it by standing on tip-toe. The rings
were then put through the handcuffs and around
the arm of the rocking chair in which the medium
sat. Several hands were then shown and a lady’s
arm, full length, of delicate form at the upper
opening—the hand down, the elbow up. No person in
the flesh could possibly have presented his hand and
arm in this position without the aid of a ladder. At
the lower opening appeared a female form which
beckoned to my wife, and not seeing her face plain
enough to fully recognise her, my wife asked, ‘ Who is
it?’ She replied ‘Jennie Connell,’ the wife of Dr.
Connell, of La Grange, Ho., sixty miles distant. She
held a long conversation with my wife, and sent mes¬
sages of love to her little ones left behind, and at the
same time requested my wife to kiss Haggie, her
youngest, for her. She spoke plainly and distinctly,
and when asked if she would show herself to me, said
‘ Yes/ and I saw her very plainly, so that I easily
recognised her. She remarked, ‘ Oh ! I am so happy !
this is heaven. I am so glad you are not jealous.’ Hy
wife asked her why ? and she said, ‘ Because Stouty is
so good. Now give me a glass of water and then sit
down.’ She asked her then if she could give us a test
for a rigid Baptist lady, neighbour of ours in La Grange.
‘Yes; wait a moment and I will bring her ma.’ In
an instant an old lady stood at the opening, said her
name was ‘ Lucy Kuhall,’ the veritable mother of our
neighbour. Hy wife inquired if her daughter would
come to see her? ‘ No, she is too bigoted.’ She said
many things relative to her passing away, which she
requested we should tell her daughter.
“ Then came a young lady whom I had known in my
youth, some thirty years ago, and talked with me, after
which she wrote the following and handed it to me :—
‘ God bless you and wife. Sarah.’
“ Then came my mother, who passed away some
forty years ago. I well remember her. She showed
herself so plainly I could see every lineament in her
features. She remained several minutes. I witnessed
a most singular metamorphosis. She did not leave
as others had previously, but seemed to glide
into another female form, at least a head shorter
than herself. The latter had the form and features
of a young lady I had known in earlier days. This
form stood and gazed into my face most intently.
Again my mother came and remained, seeming loth to
go, until her nose, mouth, and lips were dissipated,
leaving, as it were, a hole in her lovely face. I could
distinctly see all her features but these. The effect
was anything but pleasant to me. Next my first wife
opened the door of the cabinet and beckoned me to
her. By her right side stood a little child. I did not
recognise the child, but presume it was ours, as she had
two children in the land of light and love with her;
one went before, and one after she passed away.
“ At another seance the medium was handcuffed as
usual, and the rings placed on the little shelf in the
opening. In a short time the medium came out with
one ring on each arm, he being securely handcuffed at
the time. He then went into the room again, and by
our request his coat was taken off and thrown out of the
opening at our feet, still having the handcuffs on, and
locked. In a short time the spirits asked for his coat,
saying it was too cold for the medium. The coat was
held to the upper opening, and was taken in with a
jerk. It was put on the medium by the spirits while
the handcuffs were still on, and locked. The spirits
then tied him in a very secure manner, and he was
brought out of the cabinet and untied by three gentle¬
men, strangers, with a great deal of difficulty. He was
then taken back into the cabinet. After a while the
question was asked, ‘ What are the spirits doing with the
medium ? ’- They answered, ‘ We are doing something,
422
THE SPIRITUALIST.
just come in and see, if yon want to.’» Jnsf then we
aeard something fall, and we asked ‘ What it was.’
They answered, f We are hanging the man, and one
of the hooks broke.’ We went in and found him sus¬
pended to the clothes-hooks on the wall, with a ring
on each arm at the shoulder, and a rope about two feet
long with each end tied fast to the rings. This rope
was half-hitched three times on one of the hooks; each
hand was extended the full length of the arm and tied to
a hook; his feet were tied together. Thus he hung
suspended, his feet four or five inches from the floor;
but before going to the cabinet room, we heard deep
heart-rending groans which caused much excitement,
the medium’s wife demanding the door to be opened,
when lo ! we found the spirits had locked the door on
the inside. Mr. Pitkin had to mount a chair, creep
into an opening, and with a cane force the door open,
when the medium was found as above stated. It took
three of us to get him down.
“ At another seance a beautiful delicate female hand
beckoned for some paper, having thrown upon the
floor what was laid on the shelf at the opening. It
did not suit them, as it was printed on one side. W7e
gave them a piece of note paper. They then threw
the pencil on the floor. The hand made motions as
though it wauted to write. Another pencil was handed
them. They tried to write, then threw it on the floor.
We could not understand what was wanted. They
then took the medium’s knife out of his pocket, and
threw it out on the floor. - Still we could not under¬
stand what was desired. 1 then asked the beautiful
female figure if she could not tell me what was required.
She said, very distinctly, | Sharpen the pencil.’ On
examination we found the lead of the pencil broken off
up into the wood. They then wrote a message in the
exact handwriting of Mr. Pitkin’s sister, who has been
in the spirit world some twenty years.
“ At another seance the spirits ordered the lights to
be extinguished. I obeyed the command. In a short
lime there was a good deal of grumbling and fault¬
finding, saying they could see nothing. I asked them
to wait a few moments, being fully impressed they
wanted to show themselves by their own light, but so
much fault was found, I said, ‘ Well, I’ll light up.’ I
had not got the words out of my mouth before the
cabinet door was quickly opened, revealing a ball of
fire, the size of a hickory nut, lying on the carpet.
The spirits picked it up, moved it around in a circle.
It finally seemed to explode. The spirits then slammed
the door very hard, manifesting their displeasure. They
have frequently, in fact at nearly every seance, opened
the door and showed themselves from head to foot. I
have seen as many as five forms at a time when they
opened the door.
‘1 Sunday, Sept. 21st, seance as usual. Present from
a distance, Capt. Wm. Reed, of Illinois, and Mrs. Black,
of St. Louis, with a large attendance of home members.
No restraints were put on the medium, as none desired
it. In a short time Capt. Reed’s brother, a tall, dig¬
nified, spirit, with a long flowing beard, appeared at the
opening, and was recognised by him. He conversed in
whispers a long time—say ten minutes—and which was
so real that Capt. Reed was overcome with his feelings,
thanked God with almost every breath for such a glori¬
ous and unexpected fruition of his hopes and aspira¬
tions. : The following was then written at the opening,
in a neat, readable hand, and thrown out, the sound of
the pencil at times being just like telegraphing;—
Nov. 28, 1873.
Not mighty deeds make up the sum
Of happiness below,
But little acts of kindness
Which any man may show.
Ohl deeds like these, though little things,
Yet purest love disclose,
As fragrant perfume on the air
Reveals the hidden rose.
A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a cor¬
rupt tree bring forth good fruit; therefore, William, this is
good. Tell Mary I still live. Brother, be good to all, both
rich and poor. Mother and the rest are well. Our prayers
are for you all. H. J. Reed, pr. T. R.
“ The spirit forms were announced, and the door
was gently opened, showing a full-sized spirit, a female
robed in white, who was taken to be Amanda, wife of
Capt. Reed, who advanced to the door, reaching out his
hand, and receiving a perceptible touch on his coat
sleeve at the wrist. Other spirit forms were shown,
but not very distinctly.
“ I am well convinced that if they would sit in total
darkness, the spirits would materialise, make their own
light, and walk out among the observers. Physical light
destroys the spirit illumination. Thus, I and my
wife, through the never-to-be-forgotten kindness of Mr.
H. G. Pitkin, and his amiable wife, and Mr. J. H.
Mott, the medium and wife, have been enabled to
witness scenes I never expected to see on earth.”
Capt. W. H. Reed gives the following account of
another seance with the same medium :—
“ Having had my attention called to the wonderful
mediumship of Mr. John H. Mott, of Memphis, Mo., I
availed myself of the opportunity of visiting this Mecca
of Spiritualism. I had been an earnest investigator of
this new, and, to my mind, scientific, philosophy of life,
and its apparent rational sequences.* I had, so to speak,
arrived at least at a juncture in which my mind and
reason could not by analogous course of reasoning reject
the rational conclusions of its truthfulness ; and yet my
sceptical organisation required positive, demonstrated,
proofs. In this condition and status of mind I arrived
at Memphis, Mo., and called on Mr. H. G. Pitkin and
family, also on Mr. J. H. Mott and family, by whom I
was received with most hearty welcome and kindness,
and never can I-forget their earnest, hearty, and un¬
selfish warmth in the diffusion of this glorious truth,
and all without the least ‘ material or pecuniary con¬
sideration.’
“ I said, ‘ Brother Pitkin, you cannot afford to feed
and lodge all these hungry and starving souls without
pay.’ He replied, ‘ We have our pay under the present
programme, and when a change is necessary our friends
and the public will be promptly advised.’
“ The medium, Mr. Mott, was seated in a high-back
chair, his wrists handcuffed, and key given to me.
Then, with a small rope, some thirty or forty feet long,
I tied him thoroughly in his chair and down to a staple
in the washboard. The room contained a small stand,
three bells, a drum, and a speaking trumpet. I ex¬
amined the hall and floor, the only outside opening
being a window, which was completely fastened with
wire, and was the last out of the cabinet, closing the
door behind me. In a few minutes hands were thrust
through the aperture, a bell weighing some three pounds,
that was setting on a shelf at the bottom of the aperture
rang violently, then the curtain parted, and a spirit-
face was presented. Mrs. Pitkin, the lady of the house,
who sat nearest, arose and spoke to the spirit. She did
not recognise the face, but said, ‘ It is a gentleman with
a long beard.’ Mrs. Block, of St. Louis, was present,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
423
Nov. 28, 1873.
and advised to present herself at the aperture. She did
not recognise the face but heard a whisper, ‘ Parthenia,
his wife.’ This was a test for me, being the name of
my first wife, whom I buried at St. Louis, in 1854. I
then presented myself at the aperture, and beheld my
brother, H. I. Reed, H.D., who died about three years
since. He personated himself completely by gathering
his beard in his left hand, and drawing it down, and
bowing to me, and using his right forefinger with the
others shut up, and motioning, as was his habit, when
earnestly talking in this life. I inquired—
“ ‘ Brother, is this you ? ’
“ ‘ Yes, thank God.’
“ ‘Is there truth in this philosophy? ’
“ In answer he took up a pencil and slip of paper
which lay on the shelf and wrote, my face and eyes not
more than twelve inches distant,
“ ‘ This is truth. God is good. Keep his commands.
‘H. I. Reed.’
“ This was pushed towards me. I took it up and it
was read aloud. I realised my brother’s presence as
much as I ever did at any time in this life. I was not
deceived. I was not labouring under a hallucination.
I know whereof I speak. I inquired who of our friends
were present, and he whispered these names: ‘ Par¬
thenia. Mother, Amanda, Willie, and Eliza Ann.’
“ ‘ Will they materialise themselves to me?’
“ ‘ Yes, they will try.’
“ Parthenia came first. I could not see the features
distinctly, but recognised the wide-opened scalloped
collar, large pin, and a dim, shadowy appearance of a
chain of watch over the neck and bosom, all conveying
to my mind her absolute pi’esence.
“ My mother then appeared in the same manner—the
perfect outline of hsr face, head, and neck and breast
visible, all perfectly distinct and strikingly natural.
Oh ! how my soul overflowed with gratitude to God for
His great goodness. My brother came as soon as the
place was vacant, and gave me many tests, saying,
‘ Brother, could I have known the truth of this philo¬
sophy, I would have given thousands of dollars.’ This
gave me the impression that he was unhappy, and I
asked, * Are you happy? ’
“ ‘ Oh ! yes, thank God.’
“ Then there was written on a slip of paper, ‘ Stimu¬
lant for medium required.’ Mr. Pitkin handed me a
silver cup containing some wine, saying, ‘ Pass it up to
the aperture and see if the spirits will not take it from
your hand.’ They did so gently, and gave it to the
medium.
“ While the circle was singing, handcuffs were thrown
out of the aperture unlocked, the key being in my
pocket. Next we heard the rattling of the rope over the
chair-rounds, and groans and moans from the medium.
The door of the cabinet being opened, the chairs were
vacant, and the medium was found hung up under the
arms, his back to the wall. His arms at elbows and
wrists were looped on the hooks, and thus literally
hung in suspension, his toes just touching the floor.
In the haste to relieve him, no knot could be found,
and the rope was cut from his wrists, revealing the
knots immediately under or between his back and the
wall. Still remaining in the trance state, he came
into the room, and, after describing my spirit friends
accurately, ho invited us all into the parlour, where,
inspired and controlled by a German professor, he sang
several German pieces, and played an accompaniment
to them on the piano in fine style. The medium has
no knowledge of German or piano music in his
normal condition.. This concluded the first evening’s
experience.
“ The second evening the medium was neither hand¬
cuffed nor tied with ropes, but the rope left in the
cabinet, with a request that the spirits give us a sample
of their skill in tying.
“ My brother came again, holding himself in view
for several minutes; and for an instant he was so
clearly distinct that I could see his eye-lashes and eyes
as perfectly as I ever did in life. Again he appeared
with a large pipe in his mouth for a minute.
“ Here was a lesson—nothing lost, nothing forgotten,
he still repeating his regret that he had not known the
truth of this law of life when on earth. He spoke of
many incidents of earth-life, saying he would give me
a written communication, which he did on the following
night.' Others of my friends materialised themselves,
too, but none gave me messages.”
A TRANCE LECTURE.
Ox Wednesday night last week a public meeting was held
at Lawson's Rooms, Gower-street, under the presidency of
Mr. J. C. Luxmoore, to listen to a leoture upon ‘ ‘ Spiritualism
and Science,” delivered by Mrs. Cora L. Y. Tappan, trance
medium.
The President stated that* he had been asked to take the
chair at the first meeting, but declined, because he thought
that Mr. Slater should do so, but on the present occasion he
occupied the position with much pleasure, in accordance
with Mr. Slater’S wishes and desire. After a few more words,
in the course of which he exhorted younger Spiritualists
always to keep their own individuality, to use their own judg¬
ment, and not to obey the dictates of spirits, unless the advice
appeared to be reasonable, he introduced Mrs. Tappan to
the meeting.
Mrs. Tappan then passed into the trance state, and said
that a circle of scientific minds wished to speak that evening
on the manifestations and the mental science connected with
Spiritualism, also to explain how minds out of the body and
in the body affect each other and control solid matter. She
said that psychology was still in its infancy, but that the
methods whereby one mind controlled another might be accur¬
ately determined. She proceeded to explain that electricity
had nothing to do with spiritual phenomena; she added
electricity was a palpable substance, the vibrations of which
occurred under known conditions. The invisible substance
surrounding mediums, and used by spirits in producing mani¬
festations, was not electrical in its nature. Animal magne¬
tism was a force which emanated from one human body and
exerted its influence over another human body. It was a
purely physical force, and mesmeric control was governed by
absolute physical laws under the influence of mind. This
mesmeric power was never exerted unconsciously to the
operator, and it could act at considerable distances. People
often lived for years under the biological control of another
mind of superior will-power. Another phenomenon connected
with Spiritualism was the development of clairvoyance in the
person mesmerised, in which cases the mesmeriser finds
that the subject is controlled by a mind beyond the reach of
his will-power, and that he can only retain control over the
body of the sensitive. There were persons known as inde¬
pendent clairvoyants, who passed into the mesmeric state, as
they supposed, without any operator, but there was no such
thing as a person being self-mesmerised. If not mesmerised
by a human operator, a spirit acts in his place. A person
could not be at once the controlling power of himself, and'
not the controlling power of himself, it would be a contradic¬
tion in terms. Psychometry was a different form of clair¬
voyance to that developed by mesmerism ; it was a state of
mental sympathy, where every object which came in contact
with the sensitive conveyed its whole history to his mind.
Other circumstances through which that particular object had
passed became evident to the mind of the sensitive, in conse¬
quence, it was believed, of all vibrations in nature making
an impression somewhere. In such cases the sensitive could
trace a letter back through the post-office to thewriter, andread
the thoughts and intentions to the person who penned the
document. There was a well authenticated instance where a
424
THE SPIRITUALIST. Nov. 28, 1873.
sensitive lady placed her hand upon a table, and she bad a
vision of a shipwreck; she saw something floating about, and
put into a boat. It was a table. She saw it still further
back alongside somebody in a dungeon, and she said that the
prisoner, who was trying to write upon it, had been condemned
for a political offence. The statement was all true, the table had
been spared from the French revolution, afterwards it was used
on board ship, and the vessel was shipwrecked. The lady had
never seen the table, or been in the house before. All these
things were phenomena of mesmerism. In spiritual mani¬
festations disembodied spirits were obliged, when they wished
to produce physical effects, to use matter given off from the
body of the medium, which was subject to the will of the
spirit. The spirit has greater elasticity of will and more con¬
trol of the finer elements of matter than a mortal. At spirit
circles spirits act upon the particles of matter round the
bodies of the sitters, and the concentrated emanations form
as palpable element in their hands as one would wish to have.
Mortals were unable to see how molecules of matter tugged
and pulled away at each other every time they moved their
hand in obedience to their own will. Spirits not only saw
these motions, but the quicker vibrations of thought, and when
in mental sympathy with a mortal, it was not necessary for
the mortal to speak for the spirit to know his thought. The
developed mind also could in return receive impressions from
the spirit world. It had often been said that mediums were
sensitive to the thoughts of investigators, and it was true.
Intensity of thought in any direction towards a spirit will
more surely secure his or her presence than any other method.
But it all depended upon the intensity and not on the quality
of the thoughts. Mortals could act upon each other at a.dis-
tance by thought, and when these things were better under¬
stood, mental telegraphy might supersede'ordinary telegraphy.
Materialists had an idea that nothing could be brought about by
prayer, yet prayer, properly guided, might bring about almost
anything notin contravention to natural law, for the intensity
of the thoughts would reach guardian spirits, who would try
to accomplish the desires of the petitioners. True prayer
might do good to the patients in the ward of a hospital if
materialists would only let Spiritualists pray in their own way.
The thoughts of the petitioners would influence a body of
spirits, and they would bring about some absolute result. The
prayer of the materialist could not do this ; it could only be
done by the earnest desire of a person who never questions
the ability of the intelligence. The very condition of prayer
is lost and done away with when a man says to the Almighty
or to spirits, “ try if you can do this.’’ The physicists demanded
certain conditions for their own experiments, and Spiritualists
demand the same. After stating that certain vibrations con¬
nected with thought were infinitely more rapid than vibrations
connected with light, and with particles of matter, she said
that the rapidity of these mental vibrations was the cause of
many difficulties which beset spirits in their attempts to pro¬
duce manifestations, so that they required time to perfect
their experiments. That they had attained a certain amount
of accuracy in their results was shown by the vast array of
facts stored up in connection with modern Spiritualism. But
this subject chanced to be outside the pale of established
science and of established religion, so had to fight its way as
best it could, in the midst of these contending forces. People
who wished to. investigate. Spiritualism should begin with no
preconceived opinions, and possess pure minds, open to the
reception of truth in any direction.
Mr. Crisp put a question, in reply to which, Mrs. Tappan
said that true prayer produced effects in the spiritual world as
surely as fire under a boiler turned water into steam.
Another gentleman rose and asked whether spirits had been
known to drink beer at seances ?
Mrs. Tappan replied, that as a spiritual manifestation they
might have caused beer or other liquids to be absorbed into
the atmosphere, even as it was recorded that water was
changed into wine in the olden time, but they never actually
drank beer.
In reply to another question, Mrs. Tappan said there were
plenty of well authenticated cases in which the mesmerist had
been able to control his subject at a great distance, even
hundreds of miles, but it could not be done at all times, in all
places, and under all conditions.
Mr. Burns said that people frequently came to him,
saying they heard voices in their ears, and they regarded it as
persecution. Could Mrs. Tappan explain the phenomenon ?
Mrs. Tappan said that where the sounds were not the result
of disease, which was sometimes the case, especially where
external noises were turned to the similitude of voices, there
were cases in which the sounds were caused by mental
sympathy between two persons oh earth. Sometimes they
were caused unintentionally by spirits.
Another speaker asked—Would you recommend the study
of Spiritualism as a religion, or as an entertainment ?
Mrs. Tappan said, that as an entertainment she advised
everybody to stay away from it. It was a science and a
system of spiritual ethics. Beligion cpuld only exist in the
individual, but Spiritualism might afford the means of giving
external form to his religion.
In reply to another question, she said that the fact of
mediums sometimes receiving communications from persons
still living in the flesh, whom they afterwards met for the
first time, was a result of some peculiar sympathy between
the person seen and the medium.
It was then asked how spirits made the direct voice at
seances ?
Mrs. Tappan said they manufactured a thorax and other
organs of sound, from the emanations from the medium. The
voice was neither the voice of the medium nor the voice of a
spirit, but was due to sounds' made, ^by an apparatus tempo¬
rarily manufactured by spirits.
A lady said that when she saw spirits she saw very small
human figures walking between her and the face of each
spirit. Could Mrs. Tappan explain that ?
Mrs. Tappan said, that sometimes visions were impressed
upon the mind of the medium by attendant spirits, and the
little figures might be embodiments of intervening thoughts
of which the spirits wished the lady to take cognisance. The
figures were symbolical visions and not realities.
Another speaker said—Is there any compensation to animals
who have been cruelly treated in rctuni for good service and
fidelity ?
Mrs. Tappan replied that there was compensation in all
things in nature, but sometimes the compensation went to
another person ; still, the equilibrium was kept up. Cruelty
finds its reaction, for nature always provides that people that
cause suffering shall suffer sometime themselves. If men
could look into the minds of the suffering animals, they
would find that in many ways they were compensated by
nature’s laws for the cruelties.
Mr. T. Slater asked what we should do to become better
and happier than at present ?
Mrs. Tappan replied that the earth was several thousands
of years old, and from the first that had been a great question.
First, an individual should do his duty, and leave the happi¬
ness to take care of itself (Applause). Every day and every
hour the individual duty that lay nearest to conscience should
be well performed ; they should not pursue happiness as an
individual aim, but should bestow as much as they could of it
upon others, and then it would come back to their own
hearts.
The President urged his listeners to bring their friends to
future meetings, so as to get up good audiences and relieve
the promoters from the expense of advertising, after which
the proceedings closed with the usual votes of thanks.
Subscriptions towards the Spiritualist fund should be
remitted to the treasurer, Mr. T. W. Taunton, Hill House,
Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Queen Victoria on Sectarian Education.—In Leaves
from the Journal of our Life, the Queen speaks thus of the
Model School, Dublin, which she visited August 7th, 1849: —
“ Children of all creeds are admitted, and their different
doctrines are taught separately, if the parents wish it; but
the onlt/ teaching enforced is that of the Gospel truths, and
love and charity. This is truly Christian, and ought to be the
case everywhere.”
Dr. Sexton at Manchester.—Arrangements have been
made for three lectures by Dr. Sexton, at the Hulme Town
Hall, Manchester, on Wednesday, Dec. 4th, Thursday, Dec.
5th, and Friday, Dec. 6th, upon “ Spirit mediums and con¬
jurors,” illustrated by a complete exposure of Herr Dobler’s,
Maskelyne and Cook’s, and Dr. Lynn’s tricks. Herr Dobler
has been reaping a golden harvest in Manchester, from his
“ marvellous dark seance'' performance, and it is hoped that
Manchester Spiritualists, and those from the neighbouring
towns, will all do their best to support these lectures, so that
those who have got them up at great expense will find a hand¬
some surplus in hand for future use in the same direction.
Small bills for distribution can be had from Mr. Fitton, 84,
Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
425
Nov. 28, 1873.
SEANCES AT MR. JENCKEN’S HOUSE.'
MEDIUMSHIP OF,A BABY.
On Sunday, November 16th, 1873, some interesting
Spiritual phenomena happened at the house of Mr. H.
D. Jencken, Barrister-at-Law, 53, Brompton-crescent,
South Kensington, W. Mrs. Jencken (Kate Fox) has fa¬
voured us with the particulars:—Mr. and Mrs. Jencken,
who bad been driving out at Blackheath were informed
on their return, by the nurse in charge of theit infant
boy, that very extraordinary things had occurred during
their absence. Voices had been heard whispering soft
notes over the child’s bed; a footstep, too, had made
its presence heard, as it passed across the room. The-
f'rightened nurse then called up the housemaid to watch
these mysterious proceedings; both declare that they
heard the voices, the rustle of a dress, and the whis¬
pered notes. The evidence of these two servants is all
the more valuable as neither of them knew, or know, of
the wonderful mediumistic power of Mrs. Jencken.
On the morning of the same day, Mr. Jencken took
his little boy in his arms, when Mrs. Jencken was not
in the drawing-room. As he held the child up to the
window, comparing the blue-eyed little fellow with his
grandfather, the late Dr. Jencken—whom he is said to
resemble—gentle raps were heard—unmistakeable evi¬
dences of the gift of medial power bestowed on this
sensitive infant boy. If spiritual beings can predict,
certainly they have done so in this instance; for, some
five years ago, in New York, at the house of Mr. H. P.
Townshend, raps spelt out, one evening in January,
1869, that the first child of Katie Fox would bo a
medium, compared with whom his mother would be a
mere cipher. Whether this prediction is to be realised,
the future only can teach. Anyhow, this child, not
two months old, has shown unmistakeable signs of a
high order of medial power.
SPIBITS LIGHT LTTCIFEB MATCHES.
Another account, for which we are indebted to the
kindness of Mrs. Jenoken may, perhaps, interest our
readers :—
On Sunday evening, Nov. 16th, Dr. called upon
Mr. Jencken. After a short lapse of time, raps spelt
out a message requesting that Dr. and Mr. and
Mrs. Jencken might go into the adjoining drawing¬
room. No sooner had the three been seated, than a
pencil was taken by an unseen hand, the point ap¬
pearing brilliantly luminous—quite star-like—and a
sentence was written by a spirit power (that is, by
direct spiritual agency, not by a human hand), the
stem of the pencil, as the sentence was written, being
made visible by the brilliant, luminous star on the
point of the pencil. The sentence thus written is as
follows :—
“ You see I write with a shining light,
These words—‘ You will succeed.’—J.B.T.”
The paper was then carried across the table and handed
to Mr. Jencken.
Dr.   having remarked how extraordinary it
would be if the unseen powers could, by their own
agency, strike a light, raps spelt out a message asking
him to take the match-box. This done, a hand laid
hold of it and took it from him, then, carrying it to
the opposite side of the table, a spirit-hand struck
a light and carried the match-box back to the table.
Other phenomena were witnessed at the same sitting.
To listen to the accounts of all that is taking place
at Mr. Jencken’s house would suffice to make any
Spiritualist regret that all the occurrences should not
be made public, but Mr. Jencken appears to think
he has done enough in the past in braving public opinion
by telling the truth, and that others ought now to do
their work.
An amusing incident was mentioned hy Mrs. Jencken,
which only occurred the other day. The Marquis de
St. , formerly one of the equerries at the Vatican,
called on Mr. Jencken to consult him on some inter¬
national legal questions. After the two had had their
say, Mrs. Jencken joined them in the drawing-room. In
the meantime, Major-General had also come to
spend an hour at Mr. Jencken’s house. Without any
concert the four seated themselves at the drawing-room
table, to partake of the tea which had been served,
when lo ! there came loud, sonorous, triple raps, echoing
on the floor, table, the panels of the folding-doors,
denoting the presence of unseen beings. The Marquis
looked alarmed; he had heard of these marvellous
phenomena at the Vatican, but not in a friendly spirit.
“ How is all this ? What does it mean ? Marvellous ! ”
exclaimed the staunch son of the holy Church of Rome,
when a powerful hand laid hold of his knee. Startled,
frightened, he sprang to his feet. This checked the
phenomena; gentle raps signalling a farewell and a
soft rebuke for doubting the presence of these unseen,
ever-present wondrous beings, who appear to accom¬
pany and surround man as he travels onward through
this visible world to the unseen realms beyond.
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Tub third council meeting was held at 145, Gower-street,
on Mondaj' evening, the 24th inst., Mr. Thos. Everitt in the
chair. Eighteen members of the council were present.
The minutes of the preceding meeting were read and con¬
firmed ; after which twenty-three additional members of the
council were elected.
The report of the sub-committee appointed to draft the
constitution and rules, was next brought up by Mr. J. Thorn¬
ton Hoskins. The clauses were considered separately.
Clause 1, agreed to. Upon clause 2, an animated and careful
discussion took place. It was questioned whether a suffi¬
ciently general power had been taken by the clause, special
reference being made to a leading article in the last issue of
the Spiritualist on the subject, but Mr. H. D. Jencken said
that if the council agreed to a short amendment to a subse¬
quent clause, which he intended to propose in the proper place,
the powers conferred by clause 2, taken together with the
powers conferred by the clause last referred to (if amended as
proposed), would give the Association am pie latitude of action.
A division as to whether clause 2 should be amended, re¬
sulted in fifteen noes against three ayes. The clause, as
brought up, was then agreed to. Clauses 8 to 5 were agreed
to without discussion. Clause 6, amendment proposed to sub¬
stitute in line 2 the words “but he may at any time become
a life member,” for the words “ which may at any time be
compounded for.” Agreed to. Clauses 7 to 15 agreed to. Clause
16, amendment proposed, that after the word. “ Association,”
in the fourth line, the words—“ the council shall have- power,
by a majority of three-fourths of the members present, in
special general meeting of their own body, duly convened for
the purpose, and of which, and the objects thereof, not less
than seven days’ notice shall have been given to each member
of the council, to add to, vary, or alter any of the regulations
of these presents ; such alteration to be in force only until the
next ensuing anniversary meeting, unless it be then and there
confirmed by the vote of three-fourths of the members pre¬
sent.” Agreed to. Same clause, amendment proposed, after
the words “members present,” ending the amendment just
agreed to, to.insert the following—“ the council to have power
to make or vary all such rules and bye-laws as they may deem
proper, and to do all such things as are incidental or conducive
to the objects for which this Association is constituted.” Agreed
to. Same clause, line 10, amendment proposed, to insert
“suspend or” after the word “and.” Agreed to. Clause
17, first line, amendment proposed, to insert the words “honorary
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 28, 1873.
426
or” after the word “ as.” Agreed to. Clauses 18 to 22, agreed to.
Clause 23, second line, amendment proposed, after the words
“ and his name " to insert, “ with the particulars of his dona¬
tion or bequest.” Agreed to. Clause 24 agreed to. Clause 25,
amendments proposed, in fourth paragraph, line 1, after word
“registered,” to insert “ Life member, or the duly registered,”
agreed to ; in fifth paragraph, line 2, to insert word “ Life ”
instead of ” compounded,” agreed to ; in fourteenth para¬
graph, to,omit words “ and vice versa,” agreed to.
The resolution,—“ That the constitution and rules, as now
amended, be and hereby are adopted, and that the same be
entered in the minutes of the Association, and be signed by
the chairman,” was proposed by the chairman,and unanimously
agreed to.
Mr. H. D. Jencken, barrister-at-law, and general secretary
of the International Council of Jurists, now sitting, paid the
sub-committee who drafted the constitution and rules, a high
compliment, by remarking that the same were comprehensively
and carefully drawn.
The next business brought forward was the election
of officers. .On the motion to appoint a treasurer, it was
unanimously resolved that Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe be asked
to accept the position. A sub-committee, consisting of Miss
Kislingbury, Messrs. H. D. Jencken, J. T. Hoskins, T. H.
Noyes, C. W. Pearce, and E. D. Rogers, was then appointed
to select and report to the next council meeting, the names of
gentlemen who will accept the office of vice-president, and of
those most fitted to be asked to act as hon. secretaries. On
the choice of a president, the members of the Council, although
not absolutely deciding the point, were generally of opinion
that the election of the first president should be made by the
vice-presidents from the members of their own body.
The proceedings closed with the customary vote of thanks.
THE SUDDEN DEATH OF A SPIRITUALIST IN
BIRMINGHAM.
On Tuesday, Nov. 18th, the borough coroner (Dr. [J. Birt
Davies) held an inquest at the Lamb Tavern, Cannon-street,
on the body of Mi\ Benjamin Hawkes, fancy goods dealer, of
New-street, who died in the Athenaeum Rooms, Temple-row,
on Sunday evening last, under circumstances reported in the
Gazette of Monday.
Llewellin Howard Parsons, Jessamine Cottage, Edwardes-
street, Balsall-heath, said the deceased was his father-in-law.
He was 61 years of age, and was a married man, having one
son and one daughter. On Sunday'evening last the deceased
had been to his house to tea, and left about a quarter to six.
He then appeared in his usual health.
Mr. Aaron Franklin, 100, Suffolk-street, taxidermist, said on
Sunday night last he was with the deceased, at the Athenaeum
Rooms, Temple-row. About half-past seven o’clock deceased
got up to speak before an audience of about 150 persons of both
sexes.
The Coroner—And what was the business of the evening?
Witness—The experiences of Spiritualists.
Coroner—Was this a subject for discussion or lecture ?
Witness—Merely each one relating his individual experi¬
ences.
Coroner—Had any one else spoken ?
Witness—Only myself. (Continuing): After that he, as
chairman, called upon Mr. Hawkes to speak, and he addressed
the meeting until about twenty minutes to eight. He spoke
with much less enthusiasm than he had before heard him.
Coroner—Did he speak easily and naturally.
Witness—He did until he came to describe an experience he
had had in London. He then said he believed he saw the face
and naturalised form of the spirit, Peter, in London, and that
the face came close to him, and said, “ Do you see me now ?”
The Coroner—Was this long ago ?
Witness—I cannot say when it was, but it was within a
month since.
The Coroner—Did he,mean St. Peter ?
Witness—No, sir; but the spirit calling himself Peter.
The Coroner—Then St. Peter the Apostle was not meant ?
Witness (very emphatically)—Oh! no, sir!
Coroner—Is the party described as Peter well known to
those who entertain your views ?
Witness—Oh ! yes, sir. I was going to describe how Mr.
Hawkes told the audience how the spirit held up his hand
near his face and then put his face within a foot of his, and
said,.” Do you see me now?” and distinctly spoke to him 
The Coroner—Then I suppose the deceased became a little
excited.
Witness—Yes; and deceased then said, in reply to the
question put to him by the spirit, “ Indeed I do ?” and re¬
marked to the audience, ” It is. impossible to describe the
thrill that ran through me after what I saw and heard.”
Coroner—And how was the face of the deceased at that time
was it very much flushed ?
Witness—Oh ! no, quite natural. His face was naturally
white.
Coroner—How was his breathing ?
Witness—It seemed to be quite regular.
Coroner—And how long was it then before anything oc¬
curred ?
Witness—About five minutes.
Coroner—Then did he cease speaking ?
Witness—No, he spoke two or three more sentences further.
He said, “ More we shall know,” and his last words were,
” Oh, Jesus, the embodiment of love J” Then he fell back
suddenly.
The Coroner—Then he was standing at the time ?
Witness—Yes ; he fell into my arms, and his head seemed
to roll backwards. I tried to raise him up, but the muscles of
the neck seemed powerless. He then drew two or three
heavy sighs, and, after making an unsuccessful effort to speak,
expired.
The Coroner—Then there was no personal exertion on the
part of the deceased other than speaking ?
Witness—No, sir.
The Coroner—You don’t believe he has taken anything de¬
structive to his life ?
Witness—No, sir.
The Coroner—Was there any combating of these expressions
of experiences on the part of the audience ?
Witness—No.
The Coroner—And no hostility or derision ?
Witness—Nothing of the sort.
A Juror—The account you give of what the deceased said
does not correspond with the account in the newspapers.
The Coroner—We have nothing to do with what appeared
in the newspapers, but if you wish to ask him a question
about what appeared in the newspapers, put it in the form of
“ Was it so ? ”
The Juror—It was stated in the papers that he said the
spirit grasped his, hands and he grasped the spirit’s. Was
that so ?
Witness—It was so ; but I did not think it necessary that I
should tell it.
Another Juror—Did you hear the voice of the spirit ask the
question ?
The Coroner—That was said to have taken place in London,
and he could not have heard it.
A Juror—Have you ever known him to have a fit before?
Witness—No, never.
The Juror—Have you ever known him to have an attack of
giddiness ?
Witness—No. He never complained of it.
Mr. Hadley, surgeon, Colmore row, said, on being called in
to see the deceased, life was extinct. He had made a careful
‘post-mortem examination of the body. He found the lungs
were congested to a considerable degree. There was no
disease of the heart, but its muscular structure appeared to
be very weak, and in his opinion death resulted from syncopal
asphyxia, arising from the weak state of his heart.
, By the Jury—Judging from appearances, he thought death
might have resulted had he been sitting quietly at home.
This being the whole of the evidence, the Coroner laid the
facts before the jury, observing that it was his and their duty
to shut out all supplementary matters which had really nothing
at all to do with the inquiry, the admittance of which would
be not only irrelevant, but improper. They had to decide
how and by what means the deceased came by his death, and
towards the solutions of those questions they had the opinion
of the medical man that he died from syncopal asphyxia,
which might have occurred under the most opposite circum¬
stances, and even might have taken place in his own bed. If
they came to the conclusion that the deceased died a natural
death—and there was no evidence before them to show that
he did not—then their verdict should be, “ Died by the visita¬
tion of God.”
The jury returned a verdict accordingly.—Birmingham
Gazette, Nov. 18th.
Mb,.. Liyekmokb, of New York, whose early experiences
in Spiritualism were so remarkable, is now in Paris.
Nov. 28, 1873.
427
THE SPIRITUALIST.
foettiu
THE ANGEL.
At the spring of an arch in the great north tower,
High up on the wall, is an angel’s head,
And beneath it is carven a lily flower,
With delicate wings at the side outspread.
They say that the sculptor wrought from the face
Of his youth’s lost love, of his promised bride,
And when he had added the last sad grace
To the features, he dropped his chisel and died.
And the worshippers throng to the shrine below,
And the sightseers come with their curious eyes,
But deep in the shadow where none may know
Its beauty, the gem of his carving lies.
Yet at early morn on a midsummer’s day,
When the sun is far to the north, for the space
Of a few short minutes, there falls a ray
Through an amber pane on the angel’s face.
It was wrought for the eye of God, and it seems
That He blesses the work of the dead man’s hand
With a ray of the golden light that streams
On the lost that are found in the deathless land.
Haverfordwest Telegraph. . A. J. 0.
©omspoutience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
A HAUNTED HOUSE IN LONDON.
Sib,—Some years ago, before I knew of Spiritualism in all
its varied phases, a friend told me of a very remarkable cir¬
cumstance in connection with her early childhood, which was
recalled to my memory by reading the account given in the
Spiritualist for Nov. 21st, headed “ A Haunted House in
Wisconsin.”
Miss F. came to my father’s house as nursery governess to
us children. Being left an orphan, unprovided for, she re¬
mained with us, as a valued friend and “ adopted daughter,”
until she married.
Her father was a solicitor, and when she was about' ten
years old he took a large and newly-built house in Clerken-
well. I do not know the exact locality.
Soon after they had settled, disturbances began. Bells
began ringing all over the house. The chairs and tables moved
about, without human contact. The beds were no sooner
made, than some unseen agency unmade them ; not only tossing
the bed-clothes and pillows all over the room, but throwing the
heavy mattresses and palliasses over with as much ease as if
they were of no weight whatever. Loaves of bread “ walked”
about the kitchen, and on one occasion a large bottle of ink
came down from a high shelf, walked round the room, and
then returned to its proper place.
Every means was taken to discover the cause of the dis¬
turbances.
Servants were dismissed on suspicion, policemen were called
in to search and watch for the offenders. Even the clergymen
were sent for, to see if it was in their power to exorcise the
evil influence. But it was of no avail, and the tenants were
obliged to leave the house.
This did not prove to be at all an easy matter, for as fast as
the crates of crockery were packed they were unpacked, and
thrown about by the unseen agency at work.
When they did manage to get awaj’’, I believe they had no
more trouble of this kind, and strange to say, Miss F. said
that she believed the people who succeeded them in the same
house were quite undisturbed.
This must have happened about forty-five years ago.
Lewisham, S.E. F. J. Theobald.
[In the ease of the house being haunted, the disturbances would be likely
to continue after new tenants entered, and haunted houses are usually old
ones, in which some crime has been committed. If the disturbances did
not follow the first tenants to their new home, thereby proving no member
of the family to be a physical medium, were they found to accompany one
of the servants?—Ed.]
THE TESTIMONIAL TO JUDGE EDMONDS.
Sir,—Your proposition to use my likeness to astonish the
“ Yenutians,” reminds me of the testimonial which Mr.
Coleman is so appropriately getting up for Judge Edmonds,
of New York. I am waiting for my photograph, now in the
hands of the artist, Mr. Brunskill, of Bowness, Windermere, to
send to Mr. Coleman for insertion in Judge Edmond_’s album.
I will also send Mr. Coleman my subscription, as a small
acknowledgment of the good which I have derived from
reading the works of Judge Edmonds on Spiritualism. They
werfi the means of establishing me in the faith of spirit com¬
munion, and shedding the higher glories of its beautiful
philosophj'’ over my mind. They had this effect more than
any other works I have ever read upon Spiritualism. I hope
that the English Spiritualists will one and all send their five
shilling subscriptions to Mr. Coleman for the testimonial to
our revered and honoured friend across the Atlantic, who has
sacrificed so much, and done his duty so well, to the cause of
Spiritualism. John Chapman.
10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Sir,—To-day, after fourteen days’ stay amongst us, Miss
Lottie Fowler took her departure for Darlington, where she
purposes remaining a short time.
In some respects her visit here has been rather a disap¬
pointment to her, owing, in the first place, to her objections to
hold public seances, and in the second place, to her high
charge and the lack of due advertising in the public papers.
I am bound to confess the reality of her gift as a test medium
and clairvoyante. I have had most satisfactory -tests from
her; the evidence of the constant loving care of a beloved
mother has never before been made so manifest to me, which
is a great source of comfort, not that I doubted such was the
case, but when the early reminiscences of life are brought so
vividly before me through the mediumship of Miss Fowler, I
was led to appreciate her, and more than ever the cause she
so ably advocates.
After much persuasion she was induced to hold one public
seance for some friends who had come from a distant town for
that special purpose, some of whom had never been to any
such meeting. Their astonishment was great when test after
test was given, first to one, then to another in the company,
by the most plain and correct delineations of the character of
the departed ones, and other particulars connected with them,
all tending to prove that those we mourn as dead are still
with us, watching with the same loving care our efforts to do
battle with wrongs inflicted upon mankind through ignorance
and the inharmonious conditions of our surroundings. These
evils will most effectually be banished from our midst, as the
higher laws of our being become known, and the sweet and
cheering influence of spirit communion is felt and valued as it
should be. -. Richard Fitton.
34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester, Nov. 18th, 1873.
Sir,—We have had Miss Lottie Fowler with us four days,
during which time she has been kept pretty fully occupied in
the proper exercise of her most convincing phase of medium-
ship, viz., the giving of tests of a personal character, proving
to investigators the presence of their relatives and friends in
spirit life, though divested of the external habiliments of
flesh they used to wear. Miss Fowler’s useful gifts cannot be
over-estimated. It appears to us that we have not as yet had
a medium in Darlington capable of doing, more good. She
has already given six sittings to numbers varying from one
person to fifteen, and while they have all, in the main, been
successful, those consisting of the smallest number have been
pre-eminently so. It seems as if the fewer the number of
sitters, the less confusion there is likely to exist between the
communicating spirits, and their influences not becoming so
mixed up, the more startling and clear are the evidences given
to inquirers.
The tests I have witnessed have, been so profuse, and, more¬
over, acknowledged by the sitters, that I cannot easily select
one from among the many her spirit guides have given through
her. I will, however, conclude by adding my testimony to
that of many others of the unmistakable genuineness of her
powers as a good test medium, one who will, moreover, be a
credit to the pure and holy cause she has espoused, that of
demonstrating to an anxious, though sceptical, world the cer¬
tain continuance of conscious and happy individual life after
the period of physical dissolution, which to many millions of
our race is but a leap into the dark. G. R. Hinde.
3, Bright-street, Darlington.
THE TREATMENT OP MEDIUMS.
Sir,—I . must thank you for your friendly advice to guard
myself against too much zeal ; but I am sorry to say it is too
late, the mischief is done, and I quite forgot, in the glorious
sight before me, the treacherous world behind me. The
dazzling light of a new truth has overtaken me, and I require
some time to collect myself, and for a change to concentrate
my attention to a simple, moral, earthly duty. That duty is
428
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 28, 1873.
to protect a professional powerful medium against insults and
unjust persecution, the result, as it seems to me, of manifesta¬
tions, so startling in some instances, that the agitated mind of
the perplexed new inquirer draws up all sorts of conjectures
to account for the facts ; and plenty of mud is brought to the
surface to bespatter the innocent instrument of these phe¬
nomena. One single individual who has more hidden mean¬
ness in the dark corners of his nature, than he is aware of,
will do more harm than hundreds of honest investigators can
make good. This is an important lesson, and should guide
those who feel inclined to induce friends to learn something
of the facts of Spiritualism. lam pleased to find that Madame
Louise’s mediumship is taken note of. In regard to the term,
“ same conditions,” I may be allowed to state that I had
many previous seances with the same sitters, all harmonious,
and the medium of course feeling quite comfortable, in fact,
the seances were “ private.” Public seances I detest, and will
not have anything to do with, except where the medium has
quite gone through the attacks of ignorant scoffers, and is
fairly established. As to your correspondent’s suggestion of a
donation of £10, I would propose that such should in case
of failure be handed to the medium herself, as one failure will
quite undo the advantage of ever so many successes.
Manchester. 0. Reimeks.
[The best manifestations take place at those seances, at which all the
sitters are bound together by the affections, and the medium is thoroughly
comfortable and happy. At such circles manifestations may sometimes be
obtained in broad daylight, which usually take place only in the dark.
Spiritualists have gradually to And out the practical truth of this principle
by experience.—Ed.]
mapame Louise’s mediumship.
Sir,—With reference to the gentleman of Liverpool, may I
ask if David B. Ramsay is the same person who was turned
out of the Society cf Spiritualists in Liverpool ? Is it the
same David B. Ramsay and friends who were holding mock
seances in Liverpool? If so, I must respectfully beg to say
that having once received trouble from those persons, I should
under any and all circumstances refuse to sit with them. I
would ask any .sensible Spiritualist if phenomena would be
likely to occur with persons who are continually agitating and
disturbing conditions. Successful and truthful phenomena
can only be obtained when the members of the circle are in
perfect harmony, with kindly feelings towards each other.
When will sitters learn that success depends as much on
themselves as it does on the medium ? Persons meet together
with a firm will to disturb and oppose all conditions, for no
other purpose than to annoy the medium. Such persons
should certainly keep their own company, and not disturb
manifestations which others would enjoy. I also beg to state
that I am at all times willing and pleased to sit with persons
who wish personally to investigate, if they treat me respect¬
fully, and I will allow them to try any test they please,
but I certainly cannot promise any manifestations.
They must take whatever may come, and with the guid¬
ance, -of their own senses accept the truth. One of Mr.
Ramsay’s friends, I think Fraser, but am not quite sure, told
me, as a medium I was expected to bear any remark they chose
to make ; also, if I knew the manifestations were genuine, I
ought to refuse to give tests, and that the very fact of my
doing so proved me a cheat. According to such remarks as
these, the medium must bear any and every indignity, to suit
the minds of persons who judge others only through them¬
selves. . Xouise.
16, Brunswick-street, Ardwick-green, Manchester,
November 24th, 1878.
THE MEETING AT SOUTH-PLACE CHAPEL, FINSBURY.
Sir,—My attention has been called to your report of the
adjourned discussion on Spiritualism before the society, in
connection with the South-place Chapel, Finsbury, in which
are some remarks made by a Mj\ Luttman, as to his experi¬
ence on the occasion of a visit made by him to the rooms of the
Dalston Association. I beg you will allow me the privilege of
replying to them, as his conduct on the occasion in question
admits of a very different construction to that implied by his
observations.
On the 10th July last, Mr. Luttman was invited by a mem¬
ber of this Association to be present at a seance. According
to our rules, this was not allowable. However, purely as a
matter of courtesy, he was permitted to remain. Now I
maintain that in the case of any man who possessed one spark
of gentlemanly feeling, the very fact of his being in the
position of a guest, and an honoured one moreover, would have
rendered it impossible for him to make any reflection either
then or subsequently on those who were his hosts. It was
evident, however, from the moment he entered the
rooms, that his intentions were of no friendly character, and
thac whatever he could do in self sufficiency to frustrate the
object of the meeting, would be done. The opportunity of
displaying his wondrous penetration, however, was lost to him
by his impetuosity, and, disappointed and annoyed, his un¬
seemly conduct culminated in his directly insulting a lady pre¬
sent. Under these circumstances, the members were certainly
justified in (not breaking up the circle) but declining to sit
longer with the man.
The fitness of the concludingparagraphs of his observations
I will leave to the good sense of your readers to determine,
merely remarking that they have confirmed the opinion
formed of Mr. Luttman in our very limited, but certainly
sufficient experience of him. Thomas Button, Secretary.
74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E., Nov. 24th, 1873.
ORTHODOX SPIRIT MESSAGES.
Sir,—There seems to be a growing feeling among Spiri¬
tualists that we ought not' to be content with the marvels of
what are called “physical phenomena,” which, however valu¬
able as evidences of some force external to the medium, are
of very little moment, compared with the lofty and vital
questions which most concern an immortal spirit. Dr.
Gully, in his interesting and powerful papers in the
Spiritualist, lays great stress on the duty of all Spiritualists
to cultivate the highest aims and aspirations, and to seek the
influences of the “ intelligent and holy’’who “live in the
atmosphere of wisdom.” Again, your correspondent “ W.O.,”
in a letter, dated April 19th, expresses a wish for spiritualistic
teaching “ upon truths recorded in the Christian Scriptures,
especially in reference to the Author of Christianity,” and Mr.
Prichard advocates, in your periodical of June 1st, the col¬
lection and publication of Spiritualistic writings, elucidating
the high subjects referred to.
These notices of the matter induce me to offer a contribu¬
tion of this nature to your periodical. I entirely agree with
“ W.O.” in his view that “the phenomena of modern Spiri¬
tualism, when rightly understood, fulfil and corroborate the
spirit of Christianity, and marvellously uphold the truth of
the Christian Scriptures,” and the teachings I have received
from my spirit friends are in accordance with this view.
I am aware that some may say, “ Of course you receive
messages tinctured by your pre-conceived opinions.” If this
be, indeed, a necessary consequence in all communications
with the spirit world, it seems to me that none can be of any
value, being simply reflections from the minds of the media
through which they pass. I can quite believe that spirits
would find it difficult, perhaps impossible, to convey a mes¬
sage to which the spirit of the medium was thoroughly anta¬
gonistic, and the reception of which was resisted, but messages
have been given through me again and again which I have
received with reluctance; and I think most media would bear
me out in my experience that sentences are continually spelt
out and written totally different from what are expected, and
that they by no means follow, as a rule, the train of thought
pervading the spirit of the medium.
I observe too, that this criticism is rarely carried out by the
parties who make it, when the question relates to their own
messages and experiences, and I am often amused by their
implicit credence to these, while they are unwilling to receive
as truth what does not square with their own notions. Doubt¬
less we all need great caution in accepting any messages, and
we must exercise our individual judgment upon them. We
must try them, must we not, by some code, and apply certain
tests to them to ascertain whether they are genuine utterances
of spirits out of the flesh, and whether they come from those
who profess to give them ?
St. John bids us “ try the spirits whether they be of God,”
and gives us a test by which to know them. I have sought to
verify my messages thus, and to purify my spirit by prayer and
humble yearnings for light and truth, and to open it to the
reception of knowledge dispassionately; and I have asked for
and received tokens by which to know true from false mes¬
sages. More 1 cannot say without stepping out of the retire¬
ment I covet, and laying bare my choicest affections,
If I “ stand in the old theological rooms,” I claim fair play
at the hands of those who would fain throw them down'; be¬
cause I am ready to receive the light brought into them, and
earnestly seek it. Moreover, I have been educated by one
who was wise and liberal beyond his generation, and was ever
ready to open his eyes and ears to light and truth : it seems to
Nov. 28, 1873.
THE SPIHITUALIST,
429
me a great want of faith in the Most High to be afraid to in¬
quire into any science “ lest it should upset revelation,” though
we may find cause to alter pur interpretation of it more than
once. We have seen this enacted over and over again with
regard to astronomy, geology, &c., and it ia so with Spiri¬
tualism. Many good and devout people are afraid of it on
that score : if I could quiet their fears I would gladly do so,
but their faith must be weak indeed if it would fain shut out
evidences of facts that are at first sight perplexing to them.
Having bespoken a fair hearing for my messages, I have
only further to say that they have been received during the
last seven or eight years, some by “writing,” some by
“ raps,” in the privacy of my home, by my own mediumship,
or when sitting with another unprofessional medium, and
come from relations and near friends of my own, or of friends
sitting with me desirous of teaching of the highest kind.
They have been given by spirits of all ages and of varying
lengths of abode in the spirit world.
“ We continually bless and glorify Christ Jesus, born of a
pure Virgin and conceived by the Holy Ghost. He filled the
earth with heaven for the salvation of sinful men.
“ We delight to worship God, the Father, the Son, and the
Holy Ghost, three in one—the Creator,'the Redeemer, and the
Sanctifier. Blessed be His holy Name ! ”
A sceptical friend asked, “ Are we saved because Christ
died for us ? ”
“ The * because ’ is misplaced. God wills our salvation.
Jesus Christ died for our freedom from the bondage of sin.
Love divine invites all to be saved. Men doom themselves
by rejecting the bliss prepared for them. He does not doom
them.
“ You must not look for such direct guidance from me, or
from any other spirit in spirit land, or in the flesh, as should
remove from you the free exercise of your own conscience and
your own sense of what is right and wrong. I will strive to
help you by leading you in the right path; I cannot force
you onward, I only show you the way ; it must rest with you
to follow it, or to turn aside from it. Life must be a pilgri¬
mage, and a daily, hourly ascent through rugged paths and
amid pitfalls to the hill-top ; look forward and grasp the
hand held out to help you up, the only hand that can help j^ou.
Do not lean on earthly prop or staff, or on spirit help, to the
exclusion of the only saving guide and staff, and God’s priceless
blessing be with you on your road.”
“ The holy angels nearest to the throne of God veil their
faces and adore, with the deepest reverence and abasement.
We are only serving with you our common Master and Lord,
and seeking to offer our blessed worship and service with
fervour and sincerity, and we seek to draw you to participate
in the worship of the celestial and spiritual spheres.”
“ You must not think that all spirits who have left the flesh
are capable of entering into the fulness of wisdom and love at
first. They have to go through a long course of training by
higher spirits and angels, who have not been in the flesh.”
“You are not to believe any messages which contravert
Holy Scripture ; there can be no contradiction in the truths of
Divine Wisdom, and you may be sure that when it is asserted
that spirits say otherwise, lying prophets speak as in olden
times. Truth will prevail at last, but devotion and the prac¬
tice of holiness are necessary before light can illumine the
spirit. The way to heaven is not altered, and cannot be
altered. Spiritualism gives no new religion; it opens the veil
a little, to give a faint glimpse of the brightness beyond it,
and to bring out more vividly the light of Holy Scripture, to
soothe the mourners, and to comfort the lonely and bereaved.”
“ The highest angels are able to send aid through others to
those who desire knowledge and light as regards spiritual
matters, but those who desire to be instructed by them must
put aside all the cavillings born of mental conceits. As a
little child desires to be taught, and brings no disputatious
intellect to receive teaching, so must the humble, earnest spirit
prostrate itself before the mercy seat of the Lord of Truth, and
beseech Him to supply his needs.”
“ You desire to know somewhat of our life here as regards
externals. Conceive brightness above al Ithat you can imagine,
toned by soft clouds, and exhalations, the most beautiful scenes
of nature intensified, bright beings devising new glories, con¬
certs of celestial harmony and strains of rapture in praise of
God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost—a life of action,
love, and beneficence, and a spirit capable of comprehending
His glorious mission, and of entering into the blessed mysteries
of Divine truth, even then your imagination will fall far short
of the things which make up our life here ; the bliss is beyond
human comprehension, and fills the heart with adoring love.”
“ The life which pervades all is the glorious immortal life
which glows and freshens every atom of spirit nature, and fills
it with inexpressible brightness. The mission of some spirits
is to tend the externals of spirit land, that of others to watch
over and instruct those who come here in infancy and child¬
hood ; of others to go to earth to watch over and impress their
beloved ones there. Others have it in charge to direct great
inventions and enterprises on earth ; others are bound on
missions of especial love ; our offices are manifold, and our
life is one continual scene of active loving energy, but nothing
causes weariness or distaste. We are so full of love and of
ardent longing to do our Lord’s blessed will, that all we have
to do in His service, and to fulfil our duties of love to our
dear ones on earth, is full of joy to us. We have seasons of
rest, but our rest is meditation on the perfections of Divine
love and wisdom.”
“ The glories of redemption are so much better understood
hero, the hideousness of sin and the bondage of it is so plain
to the spirit disencumbered of the flesh.
“ The glorious work of our blessed Lord, which He wrought
for our salvation, is commemorated in spirit land with the deep¬
est adoration. Angels proclaim His victory over sin, and His
children rejoice and praise Him with songs of triumph, and
yet throughout the strains of victorious joy, runs a note of
deep sympathy with those who are still struggling and fighting
for their Lord on earth, and a tender yearning for the souls of
many who are yet in darkness and despair. The light was
shown to the world so long ago, and yet so many receive it
not. Dear ones feel with those who mourn over the darkness
of the world, and pray for the soldiers of their Lord, and for
those who stfive to win souls to Him. Yet their joy is not
saddened by this sympathy ; they believe in the power of their
great Captain and Lord to conquer evil at last, and they know
and realise His love, and they rejoice in Him and sing songs
of joyous love and adoration, even while they mingle in the
prayers on earth and join their intercessions to those which are
borne up to the throne of the Most High. Seek to realise the
infinite love of our Lord more entirely, and to reap the fruit
of meditation on this in the deepening of your spiritual life.
Your dear ones here are worshipping with you.”
• Should any of your readers be sufficiently interested in these
quotations to desire more, I will willingly send you other ex¬
tracts, but I fear to trespass longer on your space. X.
The present address of Mr. Robert Dale Owen is 4,
Staniford-street, Boston, Massachusetts, IT.S. His new book
will be published very shortly by Messrs. Trubner and Co.
Mr. T. Blyton, secretary jiro tem. to the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists, writes :—“ I have received a large
number of letters, re the B. N. A. S., all, with one exception,
speaking in terms of warmest sympathy with the movement.”
The Death oe Mr. Haavkes.—The following paragraph
from the Dublin Daily Express, of November 17th, has been
copied into most of the other Dublin papers, and is inaccurate
in the highest degree, as the particulars given at the inquest
prove:—“ A terrible tragedy occurred in Birmingham to¬
night (Sunday). A seance or Spiritualistic service was being
held in the Atfiehseum Assembly Rooms, Temple-row, and
most of the prominent believers in Spiritualism of the town
were present, in the course of the service, a medium, Mr.
Benjamin Hayes, toy-dealer, of New-street, addressed the
audience. He averred that at a seance Peter, the Apostle, had
clasped hands, and that he had felt the firm grasp of Peter’s
hand in his own. From this manifestation he went on to
argue that it was quite possible to understand how Thomas of
Didymus thrust his hand into the side of ‘ the personification
of the Divine Lord.’ The instant these words were uttered
the speaker fell back on a chair behind him dead. The
meeting broke up amid the wildest excitement.” The Lon¬
don Graphic also, has published some inaccurate statements
about this case. The Birmingham Spiritualists should really
take the matter up, and give an authoritative contradiction
to the story set afloat by some person in Birmingham, who
telegraphed a sensational and most inaccurate statement to the
London papers, whence it has been copied with or without
intensified variations into many others. The correction which
ought to be sent from Birmingham should be very short—not
above a dozen lines long in print—in which case the London
papers, which first circulated the inaccurate account, would
have no excuse for not publishing the truth. A- feeling is
growing among those connected with the leading daily papers,
that more public justice and truthfulness ought to be brought
to bear upon the subject of Spiritualism.
430
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 28, 1873.
POEMS BY A SPIRITUALIST.*
(From the “ Spiritual Magazine,” Nov. 1873.)
A few of the pieces in this neat little pocket volume
originally appeared in the Spiritual Magazine, and
some have found their way into other journals and into
collections which have attained a large circulation ;
others are now first published. “ Written on particular
occasions and for special purposes, they reflect broken
lights and shadows of individual experience, moods of
thought, phases of feeling, images of fancy, pictures by
which imagination would represent, however faint and
dimly, the realities seen by the inward eye.” Nature
in its varied aspects and seasons; human affections,
memories, hopes and sorrows ; the alternate clouds and
sunshine of the inner life; doubt, faith, aspiration; the
consolations derived from religion, and especially the
firm trust in a Fatherly Providence, in angel ministra¬
tion's, and the better life beyond the present; and those
strange, mystic sympathies which unite and blend the
material with the spiritual, are the favourite themes
which our author seeks to interpret and illustrate. The
tribute of respect and admiration is paid to some who
in our time have shown themselves truly brave workers
for humanity. Of this kind is the following piece,
addressed to one known to thousands on both sides of
the Atlantic for his gentle, genial nature, but more
especially for the beneficent labours in which he is so
successfully engaged:—
TO J. E. N.
In days when Mammon-worship fills the land
With blind and slavish devotees, who prize
Not worth nor nobleness; who by strong hand,
Or trick of brain, with cunning plots and lies
Gather unearned wealth, coining their hearts for gold,
While all around—aye, at their very door—
Wander uncared for in this biting cold
The homeless outcast and the unfriended poor—
’Tis sweet, 0 generous friend, to think of thee
Healing with kindly touch the sick, the blind ;
No thought of self, so tender and so free,
Giving thy life in love of human kind!
We give one other specimen of these Wayside
Verses:—
In the soft and tender twilight,
When the shadows faintly fall
On the green and pleasant meadow,
Where the poplars straight and tall
- Stand like sentinels on duty; ,
When the birds have gone to nest,
And the sun in fading splendour
Sinks behind the purple west,—
Then I love to sit and ponder
By the embers’ fitful glow
On the days that are departed:
Then the friends of long ago
Troop around and sit beside me,
Not as phantoms of the brain ;
But I stretch my hand expectant
Of their grasp in mine again.
For they are more truly present
Than the world that round me lies;
Nought is e’er so constant with us
As the heart’s fond memories.
Are they not true premonitions
Of the better time to come
When all we loved bn earth shall gather
In the soul’s eternal home ?
The pieces, it may be added, are not too long to be
read as we saunter by the wayside on a summer tour,
or circle round the fire on a winter night.
* Wayside Poems, by Thomas Brevoir (Pitman; Paternoster-row, 1873 )
EFFECTS OF IMPEPO EATING UPON CLAIR¬
VOYANCE.
In the interesting book by the Rev. Canon Calloway,
M.D., on Divination among the Natives of Natal
(Triibner and Co.), the Canon translates the following
account given to him by one of the natives:—
The Izinganga of the present time are said no longer to
resemble those of former times; for this Umwathleni, in order
that men might see that he was an inyanga, had many things
concealed for him to find on the day he was formally declared
to be an inyanga. All the things which are hidden, whether
great or small, become the property of the inyanga. The
people then acted thus with Umwathleni, and tested his skill
as an inyanga, that it might be known that he was an inyanga
indeed. When he came to find the things which were con¬
cealed, he had his body ornamented and daubed with white
clay. When he reached his home, the people had already
hidden all kinds of things in very obscure places, both out of
doors and in the houses, for him to find. 0, he resembled a
mad man entering the house. Already many crowds of people
were assembled, who had come to see the wonder. He went
rapidly and took out of the place of concealment whatever was
hidden, and placed it before the people. He entered the
house, and took out whatever was hidden there. He went
down to the river, and took out whatever was hidden there.
All these things became his, that he might be celebrated, and
people say, “ Umwathleni is a diviner.” For it is the custom
among black men to conceal things for a diviner to find, that
he may be seen to be a diviner. So this was done for Um¬
wathleni. But among diviners of the present time there is no
longer any clear evidence that they are diviners ; and we now
say, they have not eaten impepo,* and we call them amabuda,
that is, things which do not speak the truth.
When we say, “ A diviner has not eaten impepo,” we speak
of reality; impepo means true knowledge. If any one has
eaten the impepo which is eaten by real diviners, or if he says
he has really eaten it, we say, “ No, it is not the impepo which
diviners eat; he ate another kind.” But when it is said he
has not eaten impepo, we mean that his divination does not
resemble the divination of real diviners. Impepo means especi¬
ally that clearness of perception f which a diviner possesses ;
nothing is too hard for him ; but he sees a difficult thing at
once. So we say of such a diviner, “ He has eaten impepo.”
It is this which the diviner’s people say.
This is the impepo which we see ; but as regards the impepo
of which we are speaking, we do not say that a man may eat it
because it is said to impart to diviners clear inner sight, and so
become a diviner himself. No; it cannot make him a diviner
by itself, if there is nothing within him which can unite with
the impepo and make him clearsighted.
There are two kinds of impepo. White impepo has its own
peculiarities; we believe especially in white impepo; but we
do not believe at all in the black impepo ; f that which arises
after eating it is dark. For example, if a man dreams con¬
tinually of a man he does not wish to see, he eats the black
impepo, and drives him away by it that should he come again
he may not see him distinctly, nor understand who it is. Or
when we sacrifice we do not take the black impepo, but always
the white. And one always finds the white impepo in the
folds of the sleeping mats of old and young, that they may
have distinct dreams.
Mu. C. E. Williams, the medium, has returned to Lon¬
don after his visit to Holland, and his seances are now held as
usual.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
W. arid Other Correspondents.—No photographs of the spirit
Katie have been published. The only negative taken was acci¬
dentally broken by the photographer to whom it was lent to
print from. The other pictures were all positives on glass, since
positives can be taken with a shorter exposure in the camera;
the few positives are now in the hands of different private friends
of the medium. Dr. Gully has the best one.
* Impepo is of two kinds—white and black. The black is first used as an
emetic to remove all badness and causes of dimness from the system. The
white is burnt as incense when sacrificing to the Amatongo; izinyanga use
it as an emetic to prevent the return of dimness of the inner sight after the
use of the black impepo ; they also eat it; and place it under their heads at
night, that they may have clear, truthful dreams. They believe that by the
use of this medicine they are enabled to divine with accuracy. Hence to
have “ ea*en impepo ” means to be a trustworthy diviner.
t Kcakcambisa, to make white; applied metaphorically, to whiten or make
clear the perceptions.
t That is; in its power to produce distinct dr clear vision.
Nov. 28, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
431
“YANTTY FAIR” ON SPIRITUALISM.
The last number of Vanity Fair contains the following
notice of two spiritual pamphlets—£1,000 Reward, by Iota,
and Spirit Mediums and Conjurors, by Dr. Sexton :—
“ Iota is certainly in earnest, but what possible good could
come of a challenge such as that offered ? The business of a
conjuror consists in deception, and deceive he must if he is to
succeed in it; therefore we cannot see what such a challenge
Could effect, except to prove the challenger’s sincerity.
“ Spiritualism is either true or not true, and the phenomena
attending it either genuine or false. If true, and the pheno¬
mena genuine, it is of too high an interest to be the subject of
bets with professed conjurors ; if false, it is still surrounded
with difficulties, since neither Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke,
nor any other of the many self-asserted exposers of the
“ cheat,” have proved it to be one. Everyone who is desirous
of learning what the truth of the matter is should begin by
attending seances, and at the same time remember that “ He
that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is a folly and
shame unto him.”
“ The same remarks apply in a great degree to Dr. Sexton’s
oration, but as the conjurors commenced the attack it was
good generalship to carry the war into the enemy’s country, as
he does with great success; for the conjurors having largely
advertised their ability to do all that spirit-mediums do, the
doctor does all the conjurors’ tricks, explaining the modus
operandi, and defies them to make good their boast of
imitating any of the phenomena attendant on the medium,
under the like conditions ; so that it must be conceded that the
doctor has beaten the conjurors, with lota’s £1,000 to back
them.
“ To those who are desirous of knowing something about a
subject which is exciting a wide-spread interest, these two little
pamphlets will be very acceptable.”
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND OLAIBVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con¬
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 10 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, care of Mr. H. ft. Hinde, Bright-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
MRS. OLIYE, TRANCE MEDIUM, also Medium for
the Cure of various Diseases by Spirit Mesmerism and Prescrip¬
tions. 49, Belmont-street, Ohalk-farm-road, London, N.W.
A Public Seance at the above address on Friday Evenings, at Seven
o’clock. Admission, 2s. 6d.
mesmerism; and clairvoyance.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his
residence daily, from Three till Five o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s 6d.; Thursday evenings
5.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
ITUGH McLEOD, M.D., Psychometric, Impressional, an^
JL healing by the laying on of hands; in which departments of Medium"
ship Dr. McLeod is prepared to give the highest references. Terms, 5s-
each person. Visits by arrangements Hours 10 till 4. 53, Great Coram"
street, Russell-square, W.C.
MRS. WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawing under Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended.
NSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
(Trance_ Medium).
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly'revised, in One Volume, Demy Svo.,
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel Swedenborg: his life and
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the Doc¬
trines, and the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are concisely
and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect The Volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings,
by Mr. C. H. JUens—I. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London : Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39. Smallbrook street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock-of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E , respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
• Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub-
Ecribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Aaron franklin, preserver of birds and
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 100, Suf-
folk-street, Birmingham.
Opinions of the Press,
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—North- Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily Albion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what¬
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram¬
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect 1”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit¬
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'’—Spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is called a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp¬
ton-row, W.C., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well*-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
SIBYL, Clairyoyante and Trance Medium, may be consulted
,in all matters of ill-health or business. Terms 5s. each person. From
12 till 6. 63, Great Coram-street, Russell-square, W.C.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOdD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspaporsand Periodicals supplied. Agent for The Spiritualist Newspaper
432
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Nov. 28,‘ 1873.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigatioh because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; dt has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals. -
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows: —
“H. G-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J, S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Eos Bourne, Esq.; Charles . Brad laugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq.,- M.D.fBeV. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq , M.D.; Mi’s.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.Q.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.: Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq ; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; 0. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Yolckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr, Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee: —
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H, D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B; Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported: —
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without feeing produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
' “2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
,“3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported: —
. “Your committee' studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. . All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im-
posture,’’  .
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no -Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid, feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, '“If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message f ” Should three signals:
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; t he manifestations are born of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best; •
Possibly at the first sitting of/a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STEBLING.
Head 0#c<?s.-BKOWN STBEET And MABSDEN STEEET, MANCHESTEB
FIBE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Bkturns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Benewed Premiums.
FIDELITY GTTABANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons folding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM -STBEET, LONDON, E.C. S
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
Jfl E M A L E M E D I C A L ~ S 0 C I E T Y.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, -may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—i, Fitzroy-square, W.
TO OWNEBS OF HOUSE, PBOPEBTY.
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PABK GEO YE, SHEPHEBD’S LANE, BBIXTON,
ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
House Property, the situation of his*Offlces—opposite the Brixton
Bead, and near the Bailway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVEE PLACE, PABK BO AD, BEGENT’S PABK,
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Blue
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, may be obtained in packets, each containing .400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at pufelic meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave MariR-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTBEATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BUBTON EOAD, BBIXTON. ■,
The following Extract from the “ Act to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics ” is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :—
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been WITHIN Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient.”—25
& 26 Viet., eh. iii , sec. 18.
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the “EVIDENCES of SPIRITUALISM.”
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
TO BOOK-BUYERS.—Just published, and sent post
free, CATALOGUE No. 6 of Standard SECOND-HAND BOOKS,
being a portion of the large and valuable stock of CHABLES LOWE, 1,
Ann street, Birmingham.—Libraries and small parcels of Books purchased
or exchanged.
Printed for the Proprietor'by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London; and published by E. W.
AbT/EN, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
