AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[EEGISTEBED FOB TBANSMISSION ABEOAD.]
No. 140.—(Vol. VI.—No. 18.) LONDON: APRIL 30j 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
foments.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
A Great Scientific Discovery by Mr. Crookes 205
The Freeing of Mediums from Bonds by Spirit Power  206
National Association of Spiritualists:—Ordinary General Meeting—
Auditors’ Eeport—Meeting of the Council—Correspondence-
Doughty Hall Meetings—Donations to the Library—Advertise¬
ments—Election of Vice-President—New Members—Ways and
Means—Family Tickets to the Beading-Boom—The Election of
Councillors—Engagement of Mediums 208
The.Secret of “Psycho” Bevealed. By the Editor:—The Cleverness
of Messrs. Maskelyne and Cook’s Performances—Newspaper State¬
ments about the Inexplicability of the Automaton “ Psycho ’’—The
Bomance of Mystery—Description of Psycho and his Performances
—The Function of the Clockwork Mechanism and other Details ... 210
Correspondence :—The Bazaar—The Fiasco in Paris—The Development
of Mediumship—Mr. Wason on Theology and other Subjects ... 213
"Works of Charity in Connection with Spiritualism    216
Paragraphs:—Next "Week’s Soiree—Spiritualism in Marylebone—A
Case of Beal Distress—Dr. Seyton at Goswell Hall—M. Buguet—
New Councillors—The Coming Bazaar—Presentations to the
National Association Library—The Lives of the Saints 216
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(Established 187 0.)
President.
Henry D. Jencken, Esq,, M.E.I., F.B.G.S. (Barrister-at-Law)
Council
Mr. A. Ferguson Black. I
Mrs. C. Ada Blyton.
Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Mrs. A melia Comer.
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Mr. B Pomeroy Tredwen.
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mrs. M. Theresa Wood.
Hon. Sec. and Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
The purposes of the Association are:—
(1) . The collection of well-authenticated facts affecting Spiritualism,
through its own circle, or circles, and other available sources, so as to form
a basis for sound judgment.
(2) . By various means to offer facilities to investigators, and to induce
others to give the matter careful inquiry, with a view to a better understand¬
ing of the phenomena and teachings of Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members,of similar As¬
sociations (vide Buie IX.). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordinary
seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration of experiences of investigators; to which strangers
are admitted, under the same regulations as are inforced on the first Thurs¬
day evening in each month.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, members of the Associa¬
tion have the privilege of utilising the well-stocked Library, comprising
numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred subjects. All the
English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines are regularly supplied to
the Booms for the perusal of Members.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Booms of
the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A. stamped addressed en¬
velope should be enclosed in all letters requiring replies. Copies of the
Prospectus, Buies, Circle Begulations, and directions “howto form Spirit
‘1 Circles,” with any further information, to be obtained on application to
the Secretary at his private residence, 12, St. Phillip’s-road, Dalston, E.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks. .
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FBANCIS BAVENSCEOFT, Manager.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer
4, Kingsgate-street, Holbom. Price One Shilling.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, 'and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five shillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Besident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Bussell-
street, Bloomsbury, "W.C., of whom copies of the Constitution and Buies
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Wobum-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GEEAT BUSSELL-SBEET, BLOOMSBUEY,
ARE open, to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
Light refreshments supplied at moderate charges.
A Seance room can he engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL HOLD THEIR
FOURTH CONVERSAZIONE,
On Wednesday, the 5th May, 1875, at their Rooms, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C. Entrance in Woburn-street.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit of
Spiritualists who desire opportunities of meeting friends and members,
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition.
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Tickets of admission—Single tickets. Is. 6d. Double tickets, 2s. 6d
To be obtained in advance of the resident secretary. Miss Kislingbury, 38,
Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, "W.O.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
THE object of the Committee and of the Members gene¬
rally is, to spread abroad a knowledge of the great and precious
truths of Spiritualism. "We unite and labour for this purpose, and ear¬
nestly hope for the co-operation of all who are solicitous that their fellow-
men should become acquainted with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-com¬
munion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &c., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on,
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Bue de la Cathddrale, Lifege
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
X> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiqueo,
a V fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
3 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Bue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 30, 1875.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
Prettdent.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
/Secretory.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest’
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G-
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman. ;
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation,
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Booms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
MRS. TAPPAN’S LECTURES,
ON SUNDAY EVENINGS AT 7 p.m.,
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS, MORTIMER-STREET,. W.
THIRD AND FINAL COURSE OF SIN^LECTURES.
May 2.—1. “Further Experiences in Spirit Life," by the late Judge
Edmonds. May 9.—2. “ Spiritual Chemistry,” by the late Professor
Mapes. May 16.—3. “ Moral and Spiritual Healing,” by the late Dr.
Rush. May 23.—4. “ Experiences in Spirit Life, and in Communicating
with Mortals, by the late Adin Augustus Ballon. May 30.—5. “ The
Harmony and Divinity of all Religions," by the late Theodore Parker.
June 6.—6. “The Spiritual Cosmos,” by the Whole Band of Twelve
Guides.
Syllabus of First Lecture by Judge Edmonds:—
Personal Recognitions—Spiritual Friendships—The Importance of a
Knowledge of Spiritual Laws while in Earthly Life—Social States in Spirit
Land—Influence of Wise and Great Minds upon the Counsels of Earth—
Spiritual Governments, &c., &c.
i ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, ana
unibrellas.
mo THE READERS OF “THE MEDIUM.” Answer
I. to William Howitt's Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 61., First Series.
JJIAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
-Ij and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, Under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
SPIRITUALISM A'ND REFORM. “The Banner of Light”
k3 Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Centary. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and -Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-'place, Boston, Mass. U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dol ars. Six Months, 1.50 dollars. T iree Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
A USTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERR'S, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world Subscrintion. 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage
rtLE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Reform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by cost, 24d. Published on
ttiel*t of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Reigate, and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine
s’r§et. London.
Just Published, Crown 8vo, Price 3s. 6d.
SON, REMEMBER,
An Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond the Grave,
BY THE REV. JOHN PAUL, B.A.,
Rector of St. Alban’s, Worcester.
“ NOT SPECULATION—NOT PURGATORY.”
London: H. K. LEWIS, 136, Gower-street, W.C.
CORPORATION,
The fire re - insurance
LIMITED.
CAPITAL £200,000 (FIRST ISSUE, £100,000),
Divided into 20,000 shares of £10 each, half of which will be payable as
follows, viz.:—£1 deposit on application, £2 on allotment, and £2 in four
months after allotment. It is not expected that any further calls will
at any time be made, and in no event can they be made in larger’ sums
t han £1 per share, or at intervals of less than three months.
The Directors invite subscriptions for 2,250 shares (£22,500) in the Capital
Stock of the Company, the same being a portion of that part of the first
issue which yet remains for allotment.
The Directors of the Fire Re-Insurance Corporation, Limited, in inviting
Subscriptions for the Shares mentioned above, deem it desirable to state
that:—
Each one of them, before joining the Board of the Corporation, made
bona fide application for Five Hundred Pounds’ worth of Shares, paying for
the same in the manner required in the Prospectus.
Since becoming Directors of the Corporation they have each (by subscrib¬
ing the sum of One Thousand Pounds to the Corporation’s Guarantee Fund)
increased their financial interest in the Corporation to the sum of One Thou¬
sand Five Hundred Pounds.
Every Share issued by the Corporation has been allotted upon bona fide
applications only. Not one Share has been given away.
DIRECTORS.
Wyndham H. N. Hoste, Esq., 7, New-square, Lincoln’s Inn.
Frederick Perigal, Esq. (late Admiralty), Chalcots, Belsize Park, N.W
John Tapson, Esq., Brighton.
William Power Trench. Esq., Ealing, W.
W. L. Williams, Esq. (W. Williams and Son, Bread street, E.C.)
Bankers—London and County Bank (and Branches), Lombard-street,
Loadon, E.C.
Solicitors—Learoyd and Learoyd, Albion Chambers, Moorgate-street,
London, E.O., and Huddersfield, Yorkshire
Auditor—W. G. Goodliffe, Esq. (late Accountant-General, India Office),
149, Palmerston-buildings, Old Broad-street, E,C.
General Managers—C. W. Pearce, F.S.S., and Joseph Freeman.
Head Offices—2, Queen’s-buildings, Mansion House, London, E.O.
Agencies—Manchester, Glasgow, Amsterdam, and Vienna.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
This Corporation has been formed for the purpose of transacting the
business of “ Re-Insurance” with Fire Insurance Companies.
Re-Insurance is a guarantee given by one Fire Insurance Company to
another to pay to it, in consideration of receiving a proportionate amount
of the premium, a portion of any loss it may incur under such of its policies
as are covered by the guarantee.
The remunerative nature of the business of carefully managed Fira
Insurance Companies is well-known to their Shareholders.
The returns made by order of Parliament, and other official documents,
show that their aggregate annual premium income always exceeds by a
large amount the sums paid for claims
The following summary, compiled from the published returns in 1873, of
72 companies, strikingly exhibits this profitable working:—
No.
Companies.
British  
United States.,
Continental .,
Income for
one year.
£
5,404,825
5,337,811
5,170,768
Claims
Paid.
£
2,938,141
'2,681,029
2.327,048
Excess of
Income
over
Claims.
£
2,466,684
2,656,782
2,843,720
Balance available for dividend and expenses, £7,967,189.
The business of the Corporation being to re-insure a portion of the surplus
business of such companies, and receiving from them a premium income
exactly proportionate to the amount of business re-insured, it will share
proportionately in their profitable working.
The Corporation is already transacting a satisfactory and steadily increas¬
ing business; its premium income for the year 1875-6 being expected to
exceed £20,000.
The rate of profit that may be fairly anticipated is shown in the following
Table of the business position of the undermentioned Re-Insurance Com¬
panies. The Dividends paid by these for the last two years average 17£
and 22 per cent, respectively.
Name.
Alliance of Vienna 
Security  
Swiss  
Vienna    
Magdeburg  
Paunonia 
Frankfurter  
Aachen ,
Cologne 
Premium
Income.
£
86,636
247,272
37,022
97,253
114,504
115,808
25,054
31,244
82,572
Excess of
Bremium
Income
Over
Claims
Paid.
£
61,404
142 632
14,667
66,609
41,287
63,597
11,498
12,827
37,585
Dividends
Paid Last
2 Years of
Return.
n
17
7f
20
9
33f
6
i
20
20
14
26|
13
41 i
12
The Formation Expenses of the Corporation were unusually small, and
no Promotion Money has been paid.
Applications for Shares will be received at the London and County Bank,
Lombard Street, London, E.O., or at any of its branches; or at the Offices
of the Corporation.
VOiLUjVIE ^IX. JMUJVIBEFJ EIQHTEEN.
LONDON, FRIDAY, APRIL SOtli, 1876
Spmtalxst
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR, ADVERTISEMENTSThree shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Eeduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters' containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '■'■The Spiritualist” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street,
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 1S4, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thorntoo, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &e., 118 Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78. Gertrude-street.
,, Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road.
Bandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
JjJIEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—i, Fitzroy-square, W.
A GREAT SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERY BY MR.
CROOKES.
Mr. Crookes has made one of the greatest discoveries
in relation to the action of light, which has come
before the world since spectrum analysis was first made
known; the minor portion of this discovery, he com¬
municated to the Royal Society towards the close of
1873, but the chief portion of it came under the notice
of that body last week, in the presence of several .of the
leading philosophers of the day, including Professor
Stokes, Professor Huxley, Dr. Huggins, Mr. Siemens,
Dr. Carpenter, Mr. Francis Galton, and several others.
It has long been supposed that light could not by direct
action set any mechanism in motion, and the assumed
fact that light would not move a lever arm in vacuo,
even when the arm was suspended in the most delicate
manner, has often been quoted in standard text books
as evidence against Newton’s emission theory of light.
In these pages it is not our province to consider minutely
new discoveries in physics, so it may he briefly stated
that Mr. Crookes has discovered that when four pith
discs white on one side, and blacked on the other, are
placed upon the extremities of four arms made by cross¬
ing two pieces of straw which are suspended upon a
pointed pivot where the arms cross each other, and the
whole arrangement is included in a glass bulb, from
which the air has been highly exhausted by means of a
Sprengel pump, the said arms and discs will spin round
like a windmill, when the light of the sun or of a
candle is allowed to fall upon the apparatus.
This great discovery, fraught with unknown uses to
society—for already practical photographic applications
of it have become evident—may be fairly claimed as
having been given to the world by Spiritualism. It
will be remembered that when Mr. Crookes, as a pure
physicist, first joined his friend Mr. Serjeant Cox and
endorsed the psychic force theory of tho latter, he
was not only anxious to obtain instrumental evidence
relating to the force, but in testing mediums desired
that if the powers about them could lift tables, they
•should move a few grains only, suspended inside a glass
vacuum tube, where of course no tricks of the medium
could possibly do anything. • What more natural than
that in the attempt to discover the reality of the
assumed psychic force, Mr. Crookes should suspend a
light ball of pith by a cocoon fibre inside a glass
tube from which the air was exhausted, so that the
resistance of the air should not oppose its motion,
and that he then should present his finger to the bulb
to see if any psychic force would move the light
object suspended inside. He did so—whether he
were acting upon, this hypothesis or not—and the
result was that he discovered a motion of repulsion
produced by an unknown cause, and this was the full
sum and substance of the facts contained in his first
paper to the Royal Society. The fact once discovered,
it was easy to follow it up. The results were found
not to be due to psychic force, whatever that may he,
206
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Apkil 30, 1875.
but to the actiou of radiant heat; and, in working
further at the new discovery, Mr. Crookes has been
able to make fresh revelations to the world relating to
light. These discoveries are the most important upon
this branch of science made since the days of Newton;
they will cause an agitation throughout the most in¬
fluential portion of intellectual Germany, they will also
form an important addition to the honours already pos¬
sessed by English science; and, to crown all, Spirit¬
ualism may fairly claim that it has been the means of
bringing about these results perhaps a century in ad¬
vance of their natural time.
The following quotation is from the Daily Telegraph
of last Tuesday;—
At the ordinary weekly meeting of the Royal Society at Bur¬
lington House, Mr. John Evans, F.R.S., president of the
Geological Society, occupied toe chair. Among those present
were the two secretaries, Professor G. G. Stokes, F.R.S., and
Professor Huxley, F.R.S.: also Dr. William Huggins, Dr. W.
B. Carpenter, Mr. J. Norman Lockyer, Mr. C. W. Siemens,
Mr. Warren de la Rue, Dr. J. H. Gladstone, and Mr. Francis
Gallon.
The Right Hon. Russell Gurney, Recorder of the City of
London, was elected a fellow of the society.
Mr. Walter Noel Hartley, F.C.S., read a paper on “ The
Chemical Constitution of Saline Solutions.”
Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., then read a paper on some
new discoveries of his relating to the action of light, illustrat¬
ing his remarks by experiments. It had been supposed that no
direct mechanical effect could be produced by light when
luminous rays were allowed to fall upon one end of a most
delicately balanced lever arm suspended in vacuo; but Mr.
Crookes has proved by experiment that, when the compara¬
tively perfect vacuum producible by the Sprengel air-pump is
used, a delicate balance with pith terminals is repelled by heat
and attracted by ice. He exhibited a new instrument called
a Radiometer, by which the intensity of the rays of light fall¬
ing on it from all or either side can be measured as accurately
as heat rays can be measured by a thermometer. It consists
of four pith discs, fixed at the extremities of two crossed
arms of straw, balanced upon a pivot at the point where the
straws cross each other, so that they can spin round on the
pivot. The pith discs at the extremities of the four arms were
white on one side and covered with lamp black on the other.
The whole of this arrangement was enclosed in a glass bulb,
from which the air was removed by the aid of the Sprengel
pump. The discs and arms spun round rapidly when sub¬
mitted to the action of the light of a candle, but did not rotate
when submitted to the action of dark radiant heat. When
a plate of alum, which cut off from luminous sources 95 per
cent, of the heat rays that act upon a thermometer, was placed
between the light and the bulb, the discs still rotated, but
with slightly diminished velocity. The blackened and not
the white surfaces of the discs were repelled by light, although
it might have been supposed that the white surfaces, which
reflected or caused a rebound of the light, would have been con¬
sequently repelled rather than the dark ones. Professor
Osborne Reynolds having some time since suggested that the
effect of repulsion might be due to residual vapour in the
bulbs, and not directly to radiation, Mr. Crookes exhibited
the effects with a bulb containing a lever arm of aluminium
suspended by a wire of platinum, the whole of which arrange¬
ment had been heated to redness again and again during
thirty-six hours of exhaustion by the Sprengel pump, so that
it was difficult to suppose that any residual vapour competent
to produce the observed effects remained in the bulb. Mr.
Crookes further said that in some refined experiments made by
Dr. Balfour Stewart at Kew Observatory, when rapid motion was
produced in vacuo, radiation was obtained outside, whereas in
his (Mr. Crookes’) experiments radiation was applied out¬
side and motion produced in the vacuum, so that the experi¬
ments appeared to be the converse of each other. The lever
arms used in some of the experiments were suspended upon
single fibres of glass, so thin that when one end of one of the
fibres was held in the hand, the other portion would float
about like a spider’s thread, and usually rise till it took a
vertical position; indeed, the whole of the apparatus was
of the most delicate description, made with much skill by his
assistant, Mr. Gillingham. The results given by the experi¬
ments were inexplicable by theory in the present state of
scientific knowledge.
Mr. J. Norman Lockyer, F.R.S., made a few remarks upon a
telegram received from Siam about observations of the recent
eclipse of the sun, which, he said, might, if verified, tend to
prove that outside the great hydrogen atmosphere of the
corona was another and large atmosphere of some compound
substance.
THE FREEING OF MEDIUMS FROM BONDS BY
SPIRIT POWER.
Abridged from “ The Banner of Light” (Boston, April 3).
The undersigned left Boston on the evening of March 13th,
and arrived at Havana, N.Y., on the evening of the loth, for
the purpose of having private seances with Mrs. Compton, the
lady in whose presence very unusual manifestations have
recently taken place. In the presence of Mrs. Compton one
instinctively feels that she is a woman genuinely sincere,
reliable, and honest. No trait of deception marks her charac¬
ter. She is forty-six years old, of good medium size, with
dark hair and eyes. The nervous temperament predominates.
She has always been in very straitened circumstances; has
six children living, the eldest being married.
The circle-room is on the second floor, of medium size, is
uncarpeted, and the windows have closely-fitting inside wooden
shutters, which effectually shut out the light. The cabinet,
triangular in shape, is formed by a partition five feet long,
built across one of the angles of the room. Its sides and over¬
head are blank wall, lathed and plastered. In the centre of
the walled partition is a wooden door, which reaches nearly
to the ceiling, leaving an open space, say fourteen by twenty-
eight inches, over which hangs a dark-coloured muslin curtain.
Within the cabinet is a single chair, with just additional room
enough left for the door to swing open on the inside. One of
our party had previously had a portion of the floor within the
cabinet taken up and carefully examined. The walls also
were thoroughly inspected. The cabinet is not connected
with any other room.
Having previously procured a lot of black cotton lace and
had it made into a sack, we further provided ourselves with
sealing-wax, white cotton twine of small size, and a large
platform scale, on which Mrs. Compton weighed one hundred
and twenty-one pounds. These scales were placed close to the
left side of the door. We then entered the cabinet and com¬
pletely enveloped Mrs. Compton—excepting her head—with
the sack, closely fastening it around her neck, tying it securely
in hard knots to the back of the chair, sealing them with wax
and leaving a piece of silver embedded in it. The lower portion
of the sack, which enclosed her feet, was likewise fastened,
tied, and sealed. It was therefore impossible for her to move
the distance of two inches without detection, or breaking the
twine. Leaving her sitting alone in the chair, within the
cabinet, the door was closed and latched. We then took our
designated places, as before, the writer beside the scales, to the
left of the door. On the right, and three feet from the door,
sat Dr. Storer, while directly in front, perhaps five feet from
the door, sat Judge Freer. All the others formed a semicircle
and joined hands, save us two, who were purposely left free to
watch and more fully test the proceedings. The light was
lowered, singing ensued, and, in about fifteen minutes’ after,
delicate and ghostly hands of various sizes appeared at the
aperture over the door. More singing followed, and, after
another interval of several minutes, a masculine voice—which
purported to be that of Mr. Webster—from within the cabinet,
announced that Katie (not King) would come out, and that,
when she was out, Mr. Bacon was requested to enter the cabinet
and report the result. The latch raised, the door slowly
opened, and in the dim light of the room a white figure stood
partially revealed before us. Retreating within the cabinet for
a moment, as if to accustom herself to the light, she again
stepped out, this time in full view of all present. Instead of
the Mrs. Compton with a much-worn black alpaca dress on,
enclosed in a black sack, fastened, as we had left her but
a few minutes before, this form was clothed in radiant white,
with dress en train, with flowing dark hair, a white, gauze-like
veil over her head, dropping over her face, a mantle of delicate
fabric, also white, resting on her shoulders, and a dark silk
girdle around her waist. Standing before the open door, the
form presented the appearance of a veritable, beautiful female.
She first approached those nearest to the door, then turned
and stood upon the scales, leisurely remaining there till she
was weighed—balancing at ninety-two pounds, twenty-nine
less than the weight of Mrs. Compton. Stepping off, she
walked round a few steps and then entered the cabinet, evi¬
dently to regain power.
April 30, 1875.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
207
As she emerged a second time and approached one of the
committee, Mr. Bacon entered the cabinet, and found nothing
but the empty chair. Sufficient time was taken to make
thorough search. The floor, the sides, overhead, under and
within the chair, were all examined, and there was nothing
but as here described. Mrs. Compton, whom he had taken such
care in helping to bind but half an hour before, was missing 1
Resuming his seat, Katie again stepped upon the scales, and
weighed just fifty-five pounds, which is thirty-seven pounds
less than her previous weight, and sixty-six pounds less than
the weight of Mrs. Compton. Again returning to the cabinet
and emerging, a third time she stepped upon the platform and
turned the scales at forty-seven pounds, which is forty-five
pounds less than her first weight, and seventy-four less than
Mrs. Compton’s weight. While being weighed, both of her
hands at the same time patted the head of him who was test¬
ing her weight; then stepping down, she walked round, sat in
his lap and gently kissed him on his forehead. Immediately
for the first time he noticed she carried a delicate lace hand¬
kerchief in her hand. The texture of her dress was of the
softest cashmere. During each of these visits from the cabinet,
she approached several members of the circle, gently resting
in the lap of some and kissing others. Four different times
she made her appearance, remaining out of the cabinet longer
each successive time.
Shortly after her final disappearance, Seneca’s voice, speaking
in broken English, was heard kindly addressing several present
whom he claimed to know. In a few minutes the door again
opened, and a much taller form stood before us, dressed in
Indian costume, feathers, blanket, belt, leggings, and mocas¬
sins. Keeping up a friendly conversation with several of the
party, he stepped upon the scales, and while being weighed
Dr. Storer entered the cabinet, and found it minus everything
but the chair. Seneca’s weight was one hundred and thirty-
three, one hundred and thirty-seven, and one hundred and
forty-seven pounds respectively, the extreme difference between
his weight and that of Katie’s being just one hundred pounds,
as well as a difference of over six inches in height. During
Seneca’s visits, by request, he exposed his right arm, bare to
the shoulder, and stamped upon the floor, giving the peculiar
thud sound of muffled feet. He also gave with startling effect
the peace-whoop and the war-whoop cry. The presence of the
first was thrillingly beautiful, while that of the latter was
replete with power.
Our seance lasted over three hours. Immediately at its
close we opened the cabinet door, and there sat the medium,
rigid in form and deeply entranced, with all the fastenings,
the sack, knots, twine and wax, intact, precisely as we had
left her ! She confessed to no knowledge of what had taken
place, having been unconscious throughout the entire seance.
The following ladies and gentlemen authorise us to append
their names to the foregoing statement, as containing in sub¬
stance the facts witnessed by them on the occasion above
referred to, occurring through the mediumship of Mrs. Comp¬
ton, all of which they are ready to testify to in any court of
justice: E. W. Lewis, M.D.; Hon. George G. Freer, Surrogate
Judge of Schuyler County; Mrs. Judge Freer, Mrs. Dr. Lewis,
Mrs. L. J. Carpenter, Mr. Zeno Carpenter, Mrs. S. M. Marriott,
Mr. M. M. Cass, Mr. and Mrs. George H. Ellas, Mr. E. M.
Markee, Mrs. Florence Beardsley, and Mr. G. C. Hibbard.
To those who know these parties, it is needless to say that they
are among the most distinguished, wealthy, and respectable
citizens in that section of the State.
In answer to any criticism that might be made as to why
we did not subject the medium to yet further and still more
rigorous tests, we reply that on a previous occasion one of us
had submitted her to certain crucial tests, while several other
friends of ours, in whom we have every confidence, had also
critically tested her under favourable circumstances, and each
meeting with the most satisfactory result, we did not care tc/
repeat these experiments, but rather sought to vary their
character.
We conclude this statement by recapitulating the various
trials Mrs. Compton has willingly undergone towards demon¬
strating the reliability of her mediumship:
First, Dr. Fred. L. H. Willis, a gentleman known not only in
America, but in England, as pre-eminently worthy of the
fullest confidence, says:
“ When all was in readiness, and the light was made dim, we were re¬
quested to sing. We did so, and in a few minutes the cabinet door seemed
to open a few inches, and a weird phantom, hearing the semblance of a
woman, clothed in a flowing costume of white, glided out. . . . Over her
head was thrown a veil of delicate texture, and in one hand she carried
a handkerchief that looked like a bit of fleecy cloud. Her dress was
exceedingly white and lustrous, without a wrinkle or fold in it. The
drapery fell gracefully from the figure, and trailed upon the floor behind.
She advanced towards me, and put the hand that held the handkerchief
upon my head, and the folds of it fell upon my face. It felt like no fabric
with which I am familiar. I specially scrutinised the hands, and found
them totally unlike the medium's. Three times the phantom returned to
the cabinet, apparently to gain more strength. The second time it came
out it seemed to come directly through the substance of the door, which I
am positive did not open for its egress. The first and third time the door
opened about six inches, not wide enough for a mortal body to pass
through. . . .
... At the close of the seance we rushed to the cabinet, and there the
medium sat, just as we had left her, with her skirts tacked so securely to
the floor that we were obliged to use a claw-hammer to get the tacks out.
On comparing notes afterwards with those present we found that our
observations corroborated each the other. ... We felt satisfied that, what¬
ever the apparition was, it was not the medium.”
Subsequently Dr. Willis, with other friends, held another
test circle, on which occasion he took strips of adhesive
plaster, wanned them well, and thoroughly secured her mouth,
a narrow strip being placed diagonally over it, each way, in the
form of a cross, then abroad strip across, straightway, over the
whole, fastening it securely beneath each ear; so that by no
possibility could she speak a single word.
“The medium was then bound with rope in such a manner that she
could by no possibility move her arms in the least. Her hands she could
move from the wrist only. We formed peculiar knots, and the ends of the
rope we carried behind her and fastened with an intricate knot between
her shoulders. Through this knot, unknown to any one, I thrust a pin, in
such a manner that the knot could not be tampered with without dis¬
lodging it. We then led her into the cabinet, stated her in the chair, and
again nailed her skirts securely to the floor, and this time with a black
lead pencil we marked the floor where each tack went in. . . ,
We then closed the door of the cabinet, the light was made dim. and in
three seconds two beautiful hands made their appearance at the aperture.
The arms, also, were materialised nearly to the elbow, and draped in a
white, glistening material, unlike any fabric I can think of. The hands of
the medium, as I have said, are long, bony, and hardened with toil. These
hands were plump, short, and beautifully shaped, and white as a lily.
They passed three times slowly to and fro, and then the door of the
cabinet opened, and, to our surprise, the phantom Katie glided out. Not
five minutes before we had seen the medium bound, nailed to the floor,
and her mouth covered with adhesive plasters. We knew as positively as
we can know anything outside of pure mathematics in this life, that besides
the medium and the chair she sat in, there was nothing in that cabinet—
not so much as a thread or a splinter, and yet in this brief space of time
here stood before us a figure that we all distinctly saw emerge from the
cabinet, most elaborately dressed, far more so than when I saw it the first
time. To assert that the medium could, in that brief space of time, in
utter darkness, have unbound herself, stripped those piasters from her
mouth, withdrawn those tacks from the floor, and clothed herself in this
elaborate drapery, with flowing curls, and head and neck most elaborately
dressed, is simply preposterous.”
As soon as she entered the cabinet the last time, the voices
commenced, and continued most wonderfully for nearly two
hours, some half-dozen spirits within the cabinet speaking to
those in the circle. While some delivered addresses, others
gave proofs of personal identity. Immediately at the close of
the seance, they found the medium numb, cold, and in a dead
trance, but otherwise exactly as they had left her. The knots
were the same, and the pin undisturbed, while the plasters over
her mouth adhered so closely, that their removal was painful,
the flesh being almost blistered. The nails, too, which
fastened her dress to the floor, together with their pencil-
marked position, were also found intact.
Dr. Storer’s tests at his first visit to Mrs. Compton, were as
follows :—
“Two lady friends entering her bedroom saw her completely divested
of clothing with the exception of two under garments, and then made her
draw on a pair of her husband s pantaloons. The basque of her alpaca
dress, without the skirt, was then put on, after careful search to render it
certain that no extra clothing could be secreted. Then the basque was
sewed by its points on each side to the pantaloons, and a ribbon, tied with
two knots closely around her neck, was sewed through the knots, and each
end of the ribbon sewed to the collar of the basque. So that she had on a
closely fitting coat and pantaloons, sewed together, and so attached by a
ribbon around the neck that the clothing could not be drawn up or down.
A pair of black gloves was then drawn upon the hands, and sewed tightly
around the wrists. A piece of cotton twine was then put around her waist,
tied in two hard knots behind, and the same piece of twine was tied by
double knots to the back of the chair in which she sat. . . .
After singing for perhaps twenty-five minutes, with occasional inter¬
missions to hear remarks by the voices, it was announced that Katie would
appear. Very slowly the door opened, and soon her entire form was seen,
dressed in trailing skirts, veil, and mantle, and a belt which she gathered
in her hands and rubbed together that we might hear its silken rustle.”
On Katie’s entrance toward the centre of the room, Dr.
Storer sprang into and examined the cabinet, felt in the chair,
swept the floor and the walls with his hands, but not a vestige
of medium or anything remained. Resuming his seat, Katie
came, bent over and kissed him twice. They also conversed
together. Seneca also put in an appearance, briefly spoke to
the friends present, but the power being gone, he had to with¬
draw. Dr. Storer closes his account in these significant
words«—
“ The light was turned up, the closet door opened, and in the chair, tied
as we had left her, without the breaking of a thread, or the apparent move¬
ment of her person, or in any respect differing from her appearance when
last seen, sat the medium in that fearfully lifeless trance, from which
nearly a half hour was required to arouse her.”
208
TUB isjr iii x x u xxjjIST.
Col. H. S. Olcott, the famous and persistent experimenter
with the Eddy family, at their home in Chittenden, Yt., has
also held a circle with Mrs. Compton, under test conditions,
with the most gratifying results, the full particulars of which
will appear in bis forthcoming book, People from the Other
World. From its advance sheets we learn that he pinioned
Mrs. Compton’s arms to her sides, her feet to the floor, took
out her ear-rings, passed a packthread through the holes in
the lobe of each ear, passed it back to the back of the chair,
tied it, sealed the knot with sealing-wax, and stamped it with
his own private seal. She could only move by breaking the
thread. Thus fastened, the cabinet was closed upon her, and
in a few minutes Katie walked out, arrayed in white, sat upon
his knee and kissed him on the cheek. He having provided
platform scales by request, the materialised spirit was weighed
three different times, the figures showing seventy-seven, fifty-
nine, and fifty-two pounds respectively. Immediately at the
close of the seance Col. Olcott found the medium asleep, with
the thread and its sealed knot undisturbed.
Once more and finally. Since this our friend, Capt. D. P.
Dey, Superintendent of the Seneca Lake Steam Navigation
Company, has tested Mrs. Compton still more peculiarly as
well as rigidly, an account of which he verbally communicated
to us. Previously procuring fifty feet of common annealed
wire, he fastened it around her body with a clove hitch,
twisting the ends with nippers around the back of the chair;
also twice around each arm, passing the wire finally through
a portion of her garment, and securing the ends so firmly that
unassisted fingers could not undo them. The bottom of her
dress was also nailed to the floor. Thus left alone, the door
of the cabinet was closed, and in a few minutes Katie ap¬
peared in white, came out repeatedly, approached, patted and
kissed several persons present. The Indian, Seneca, in his
accustomed dress, also came out, talked, walked round and
vigorously patted the heads of those nearest to the door.
After all was over, an examination revealed nothing changed
—the medium being bound precisely as they had left her. In
fact, to release her from her fastenings, it was necessary to
cut the wire and to pull her dress by main strength from the
nails which held it to the floor.
George A. Bacon,
Db. H. B. Siobeb.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
- ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING.
On Wednesday last week, an ordinary general meeting of
the British National Asssociation of Spiritualists, was held at
their Booms, 38, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury, under the
presidency of Mr. Alexander Calder. The meeting was merely
of a formal nature, and convened for the reading of the
auditors’ report.
The President read the circular convening the meeting,
after which he added that that was the first ordinary general
meeting of the Association, and he would congratulate the
members present on such an interesting occasion. The future
of the Association was larger than could be foreseen. Although
its present dimensions were small, it was like an acorn on the
ground, they could not tell how large an area the branches of
the future tree would cover.
AUDITORS’ REPORT.
Mr. Calder then read the Auditors’ report of the receipts and
expenditure of the Association to the end of the year 1874,
as already published in these pages. The report set forth that
the total receipts of the Association were £209 6s. 7d., and
exceeded the expenditure for the year by the sum of £1111s. Od.
balance in hand. He then read the following letter:—
38, Great Russell-street, April, 1875.
To the Members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—In presenting the accounts of
this Association for 1874, and certifying them to be correct,
we have much pleasure in stating that the account books of
the Association have been opened upon a good system, and in
such form as to ensure accuracy, and furnish the subscribers
with all necessary details of expenditure.
April 30, 1875.
Since the 31st December, 1874, the date up to which the
books have been balanced, the subscriptions continue to flow
in, and promise for the year 1875 a much larger amount than
shown in this the first account of the Association.—We are,
Ladies and Gentlemen, yours faithfully,
Martin B. Smith, How. Treasurer.
Alexander Caldee.
Mobell Theobald, Chairman of Finance Committee.
Mr. E. D. Bogers moved that the report be received and
adopted. This was seconded by Mr. Everitt, and passed
unanimously, after which the meeting broke up.
MEETING OP THE COUNCIL.
At a meeting of the Council of the British National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, held at 38, Great Russell-street, London,
on Wednesday, last week, Mr. Alexander Calder presided ; the
other members present were Mr. Samuel Chinnery, Mr. Ken-
ingale Cook, Mr. Thomas Everitt, and Mr. E. D. Rogers.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
CORRESPONDENCE—DOUGHTY HALL MEETINGS—DONATIONS TO
THE LIBRARY—ADVERTISEMENTS.
The Secretary read a long letter from Mr. T. P. Hinde, of
Darlington, censuring the action taken by Mr. Burns in re¬
turning the National Association subscription to the Doughty
Hall meetings. Mr. Hinde expressed a hope that no aid
would be given in future to any public step with which Mr.
Burns was connected.
The Secretary next read a letter from Mr. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald, expressing his disapproval of the same conduct.
Mr. E. D. Rogers wished to know to whom the £2 2s. re¬
turned by Mr. Burns was made payable. He said that so far
as the Council was concerned, it was a donation to the
Doughty Hall Sunday meetings, and had nothing to do with
Mr. Burns. The subscription was intended for the committee,
in aid of the work of friends who were helping at free Sunday
services ; the Council did not know at the time the grant was
made that Mr. Burns was the committee.
The cheque sent by the Council was then produced, and it
was found that it had not been made payable to Mr. Burns at
all, but to the Doughty Hall meetings.
Mr. Samuel Chinnery said that the intention in making the
remittance was undoubtedly a kind one, and that the reply of
Mr. Burns was one of the most ungrateful and most painful
things that he had ever read in connection with Spiritualism.
The subject then dropped.
A letter from a gentlemen in Scotland was then read, in which
he sent a donation in aid of the bazaar, at which he hoped to
be present.
The Secretary next read a letter from Mr. Blyton returning
thanks for the reading-room ticket which had been sent to
himself and Mrs. Blyton. He further offered two copies of the
Dialectical Committee’s Report on Spiritualism, and one copy
of A. J. Davis’s Stellar Key to the Summer Land, as donations
to the library.
A letter from Mr. Harrison was then read, in which he
offered to put in The Spiritualist one advertisement about the
National Association Beading-Boom, and another about the
Prize Essays, for three months without charge.
Miss Kislingbury remarked that at present he put in two out
of every four of the soiree advertisements without charge, and
that the large advertisement of the Association was regularly
inserted at a very greatly reduced rate.
ELECTION OF VICE-PRESIDENT.
Mr. Everitt remarked that he had informed Dr. Hitchman
that he intended to propose him as a vice-president of the Asso¬
ciation, whereas The Spiritualist newspaper had reported that
Dr. Hitohman had proposed himself.
Miss Kislingbury said that the mistake arose out of a remark
made by herself and not by Mrs. Everitt, but that she did not
intend anything disrespectful to Dr. Hitchman; she ought to
have read his letter. She had written a note to Dr. Hitchman
explaining the nature of the mistake.
NEW MEMBERS.
Mr. Andrew Glendinning, of Glasgow, Mr. Sheldon Chad¬
wick, and Mr. Thomas Nayler were then elected ordinary
members of the Association.
Mr. Everitt remarked that Mr. Chadwick was one of the most
powerful mesmerists in this country; Mr. Chadwick had written
a book of poems, of which he intended to present a copy to the
Association.
April 30, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
209
WAYS AND MEANS.
Miss Kislingbury reported that during the nine days which
had elapsed since the previous Council meeting, she had re¬
ceived additional subscriptions to the amount of £9 17s. Od.
The Secretary then gave in the names of seven.members
who had not paid their subscriptions for the year 1874, and
asked what was to be done in the matter.
Mr. E. D. Rogers said that the seventh rule of the Society
applied to cases like these. Considering the large body of
members possessed by the Association, seven was a very small
number of unpaid subscriptions.
Mr. S. Chinnery said that at one time the Anthropological
Society was in an impecunious state, in consequence of being
lax in dealing with members who did not pay up their sub¬
scriptions, the result in the long run being that the other
members had to pay for them ; if any members did not pay,
it showed that they had little interest in the Association, and
their names should not remain upon the books.
The Secretary remarked that perhaps some of the seven who
had not paid had not received all the notices of their sub¬
scriptions being due, and some of them might have been away
from England at the time.
It was then resolved that they be applied to for the amounts
due.
Mr. E. D. Rogers reported that he had a balance in hand out
of the sum entrusted to the Furnishing Committee for fur¬
nishing the new offices, and that, as all the bills had not yet
been sent in, he was waiting till that had been done before he
expended the remainder.
FAMILY TICKETS TO THE READING-KOOM.
Miss Kislingbury suggested that family tickets of admission
to the reading-room should be issued.
Mr. E. D. Rogers said that he had been thinking the
matter over, and he would suggest that where one person in
the family was a subscriber, his ticket should be transferable
to any other member of his family residing in the same house.
Mr. Keningale Cook said that a subscription of £l Is. from
every member of the same family, as at present, was heavy.
Mr. Everitt added, that perhaps two or three of the members
of the family might wish to come at the same time, and then
the plan of Mr. Rogers would not answer. The question of
the terms on which family tickets should be issued was a
serious one, and he thought that too few members of Council
were present at that meeting, to decide the matter there and
then. It was a question which required thinking over, and
which should be decided at a larger meeting.
After some further discussion, the consideration of the
question was postponed.
It was resolved that free tickets to the library and reading-
room should be presented to Mr. and Miss Shorter. It was
further resolved that circulars, giving information about the
reading-room, and the advantages it presented to Spiritualists,
should be printed and distributed.
THE ELECTION OF COUNCILLORS.
Mr. E. D. Rogers said that, before finally presenting the
Articles of Association to the Board of Trade for registration,
he had thought it desirable to call the special attention of the
Council to the clause about the method of taking votes at
general meetings. The clause provided that members who
could not attend should be able to vote by proxy. There was
a strong desire that facilities should be given to members who
could not attend the general meeting to vote at the election of
members of the Council, and the method of voting by proxy
might or might not answer the purpose. If it gave the
proper facilities, it ought to remain; if not, it ought to be
altered. In voting by proxy, the members would receive a
form from the Council, which they would have to fill in and
send to one of their friends, authorising him to vote for them;
if they compelled that friend to vote in any particular way,
they did it by private arrangement with him. The Act of
Parliament relating to incorporated societies ordered that a
penny stamp should be affixed to each proxy paper.
Mr. Keningale Cook said that the Civil Service Supply
Association used a form of proxy on which the duty of a
penny was not paid ; this was probably done by evasion of
the Act, but still there was no doubt that they managed to
keep within the law.
Mr. E. D. Rogers said that he rather thought that the
Council had better let the system of voting by proxy stand,
especially as they had had solicitors to help them in drawing
up the Articles of Association.
Mr. Cook said that the advantages were greater than the
disadvantages of the proxies, and as the Council had to legis¬
late for the future, when the business transacted would be
much greater than at present, he thought that they had
better have them. It was impossible to drop the matter at
the present time, because they must inform the Board of
Trade what would be the system of voting; and if they wished
to alter it at a future date, such a course might be both
tedious and troublesome; he thought that the clause relating
to proxies had better be allowed to stand.
Mr. Chinnery said that it was a good moral position for
the Association to take up, to obtain the recognition of the
government. The Society Anonyme des Spiritistes, at Paris,
had been registered by the government officials, and the
result was that it had obtained privileges in regard to holding
public meetings and other matters which it would not have
otherwise possessed.
Mr. Rogers said that when an absent member intended to
vote by proxy, he would have to give forty-eight hours’ clear
notice to the Council that he had authorised some friend
(whom he must name) to vote for him.
Mr. Everitt asked whether the voter stated on the proxy
form in what way he desired his friend to vote for him ?
Mr. Rogers said—No; that could only be done by private
arrangement with his friend. So many questions came up at
general meetings, that absent persons could not be aware of all
the questions that would arise, or be prepared to vote upon
them.
ENGAGEMENT OF MEDIUMS.
Mr. Keningale Cook then moved the resolution of which he
had given notice—“ That the Association do take into consi¬
deration the question of its responsibility as a national body,
acting in a general relation to the public as well as to its own
members, especially in the matter of professional mediums,
their genuineness or otherwise, and the effect which their
uncriticised action is likely to have upon those investigating
the subject of Spiritualism.” Mr. Cook then read a spirit
message to the effect that more care should be taken of pro¬
fessional mediums, and that all inducements to add to genuine
manifestations should be removed, both in the interest of the
mediums and the interest of the public. The Association had
a national responsibility as regards Spiritualism, and he
thought that they ought generally to be making up their minds
as to what work they intended to do in the future. He said
that at present the position of professional mediums was
sometimes most painful, because, although the phenomena
were of a fugitive character, the mediums were surrounded at
public circles by people who almost insisted upon having
manifestations. If the Association had mediums of its own it
could step in in cases where manifestations were unobtainable,
and protect the medium from the demand on the part of in¬
experienced visitors, telling the latter that the medium was
out of health or out of power, and asking them to come again.
Without some such support, mediums were sometimes placed
in a cruel position. He did not mean that special mediums
should be guaranteed by the Association, but that they should
be guarded, and he spoke in this matter more from the point
of view of the public than that of the mediums.
Miss Kislingbury said that Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald had
written suggesting that the Association should take mediums
in hand, and surround them with conditions favourable for
their development.
Mr. S. Chinnery said that he had had many years’ experi¬
ence with mediums, and to get good results mediums must be
surrounded by sympathetic and affectionate persons in whom
they had confidence. (Applause.)
The Chairman said that the real question before the meet¬
ing was—“Shall we have mediums of our own?” If that
course were adopted, it might at times bring the Association
into direct contact with the law, if the mediums played tricks,
or if the public chose to assume that they did so. Under the
present system, there was a room on the premises which could
be hired by any private members of the Association, who
wished to hold seances of their own.
Mr. Chinnery said that letting a room in that way had a
little of the nature of indirect sanction. Treating mediums
kindly in private circles was the best method of procedure, and
under such conditions sound conclusions could be arrived at
without the use of ropes and tapes; indeed, to get good mani¬
festations, the mediums must have full confidence in the
friends around. He had once tried a medium on this prin¬
ciple ; at first few or no manifestations could be obtained, but
as confidence grew, they improved both in number and quality,
until at last, when the medium was wound with worsted from
> head to foot, and while the observers were holding both his
210
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 30, 1875.
bands, bis waistcoat was taken off, and placed on one side,
witbont disturbing tbe worsted bandages.
Mr. Eeningale Cook moved tbat a committee be appointed to
consider tbe question of engaging mediums.
Mr. Rogers saw no objection to tbe consideration of tbe
question.
Tbe resolution was then passed, the members of tbe Com¬
mittee appointed being Mr. Eeningale Cook, Mr. Samuel
Cbinnery, Mr. Thomas Everitt, Mr. E. D. Rogers, Mr. Martin
Smith, and Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald.
Tbe meeting then broke up.
THE SECRET OE “PSYCHO” REVEALED.
BY THE EDITOR.
Since the days ■when the automaton chess-player
proved a puzzle to all the courts of Europe, also to the
general public until the secret of its action was found
out, no analogous piece of mechanism has so long
defied the critical examination of observers until Messrs.
Maskelyne and Cooke some months ago first introduced
“ Psycho ” to public audiences at the Egyptian Hall,
and night after night does Mr. Maskelyne claim that
nobody hut himself and a person who aided him in its
construction knows the secret of its action.
THE CLEVERNESS OP MESSRS. MASKELYNE AND COOKE’S PER¬
FORMANCES—NEWSPAPER STATEMENTS ABOUT THE INEXPLICA¬
BILITY OP THE AUTOMATON “ PSYCHO.”
For the information of those who have not seen
Psycho, I will give a few extracts from newspapers de¬
scribing the external characteristics of the figure and
its action.
The Times of January 22nd, 1875, says:—
Tbe marvel of Psycho, Mr. Maskelyne’s new invention,
consists in these distinctive features—the figure has no living
being within it: be is placed upon a stand of thin tran¬
sparent glass, consisting of one single piece, which perfectly
isolates him from any connection mechanical, electrical, mag-
netioal, or otherwise conceivable, with any operator at a distance,
and yet, nevertheless, be plays a game at whist with no little
skill, and, unless matched against very scientific players,
commonly wins. If any person gives him a sum to calculate
in addition, subtraction, multiplication, or division, be shows
tbe answer, one figure at a time, by opening a little door, and
sliding the figures in front of the aperture with a movement
of bis left band. You help yourself to a card out of the pack,
and be tells tbe suit and rank and number of spots by means
of strokes on a bell. You privately mark any card in the pack,
which you shuffle and bold in your own bands, and upon the
pack being placed in front of tbe figure, be instantly finds tbe
identical card, and bolds it up without possibility of substitu¬
tion or deception. For complete novelty of tbe effects pro¬
duced, Psycho outdoes everything which has appeared since
tbe subtle inventions of Robert Houdin.
The Daily Telegraph of January 18th, says :—
Inventive ingenuity can hardly be more strikingly exempli¬
fied than in tbe new automaton called Psycho, with which Mr.
Maskelyne, tbe clever mechanician, has now embeUisbed tbe
first portion of bis curious entertainment. That even the
smallest accomplice can be concealed within tbe machine is
shown to be impossible, and unless the visitor to the Egyp¬
tian Hall can come to the desperate conclusion that Mr.
Maskelyne has gone beyond Professor Tyndall, and discovered
the faculty of memory developed in the movements of clock¬
work, a problem is here submitted to the public which seems
to be inexplicable.
The Standard of March 4th says
It is enough to say that gentlemen from the audience were
invited to come on the stage, and given every facility to try
and discover how the tricks were practised, and many availed
themselves of this permission, and were most keen in their
surveillance, but all efforts at detection failed.
The Morning Advertiser of Jan. 29th, says:—
Psycho is truthfully described as the most wonderful automa¬
ton in the world, and it surpasses everything hitherto accom¬
plished by mechanical means or by the so-called psychic,
dynamic, or other secret force, by whatever name it may be
called, and does not fail-to elicit the enthusiastic applause of
an admiring and bewildered audience.
The Daily News of Jan. 18th, says:—
The movements of Psycho all appear in fact as natural as
they are perplexing, and whatever may be the secret intelli¬
gent force, which directs these, the invention itself is
certainly subtle and ingenious, as the audience clearly and
heartily recognise by the manner in which they receive the
successive feats.
The Era of Jan. 28rd, says :—
Of all the marvels of human skill employed in the con¬
struction of automaton figures, we do not remember to have
heard or read of anything approaching the marvellous powers
of Psycho. We might extend our notice of this marvellous
novelty almost indefinitely, but enough has been said, we
think, to prove Mr. Maskelyne has gone far beyond everybody
else in the mysteries of mechanical invention. There are,
doubtless, more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of
in our philosophy, and some of these things Mr. Maskelyne is
evidently acquainted with.
The Graphic of March 14th, says :—
The whole performance is of a most wonderful character,
and although every facility is given for examining the ap¬
paratus, both before and after each feat, one comes away com¬
pletely puzzled as to the modus operandi by which the results
are achieved.
The Pictorial World of Jan. 23rd, says:—
Their latest wonder is Psycho, a mechanical marvel that
throws into the shade all the automata of which we have
any record. Psycho is more than a match for both mortals
and spirits.
Fun of Jan. 27th, says:—
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke, who have already eclipsed all
rivals past, present—we had almost said and to come, have
gone a step further in advance, and invented an automaton,
the like of which has never been seen or heard of. Psycho is
a perfect marvel of ingenuity. Those cool people who make
it a rule never to be astonished at anything, will find
their coolness and their ingenuity fairly put to the test by
Psycho.
Lloyd's News of Jan. 24th, says :—
Looking back through all the performances introduced
by conjurors during the past quarter of a century, we have
no hesitation in proclaiming Psycho the greatest puzzle of
the age.
In conclusion, I may end as I began, by giving a
quotation from The Times:—
Whoever is familiar with the feats of legerdemain performed
by the old school of conjurors, beginning in the last century
with Jerome Sharp, Barrett, Breslau, Dean, De Grisy, the
Chevalier Pinetti, and continuing with Comus, Katerfelto,
Jonas, Dento, Sibley, Lane, Ingleby, Ramon Samee, Bosco,
Phillipstahl, Doebell, Phillipe, to the more modem Robert
Houdin, Jacobs, Gyngell, Anderson, Robin, Buck, Frikell,
Poletti, Hermann, Maju, Stodare, Hartz, Beaumont, and the
Fakir of Oolu, will admit that real originality of invention in
the tricks has been comparatively rare. But among the
eminent professors of magic who have introduced meritorious
novelties and struck out a distinct line of their own must be
classed the very clever gentlemen who are now giving perform¬
ances at St. James’ Great Hall.
THE ROMANCE OF MYSTERY.
There is a charm to the selfish mind in the possession
of any secret or treasure beyond the reach of everybody
else, and though diamonds be rare, and captured
specimens of the octopus scarce, more exclusive still
is the secret of the mechanism which beats within the
breast of the unemotional Psycho. “ Only one person
besides myself,” said Mr. Maskelyne, last Saturday,
placing his hand affectionately upon the automaton,
“ knows the secret of Psycho.” A gentleman ’once
narrated in these pages how by some occult power of
the eye ,one of the natives of India could make a
trailing length of the convolvulus plant wriggle after
April 30, 1875.
THE SPIRIT UIALST,
211
him along the ground in broad daylight, and how an
English gentleman who by purchase became the owner
of the fell secret, refused to reveal it to others, and
could never hear the subject mentioned without a
shudder. “ The man who gave me the secret of these
here pills,” says cheap Jack, “ is dead, and on his dying
bed said to me ‘Never tell nobodyOliver Wendell
Holmes after describing the wonderful “one boss shay”
built of imperishable materials, tells how its con¬
structor resolved that the apron of the said chaise
should be of unexampled durability, so
The apron was made of tough old hide,
Pound in the pit when the tanner died.
and Mr. Maskelyne’s secret, like the lost leather in the
tan-pit, has gained by long keeping, since the greater
the mystery the more is the curiosity of the public
stimulated. “ I made every part of the mechanical
arrangements of Psycho myself, with the assistance of
one man,” said Mr. Maskelyne, when I went to see
Psycho for the first time last Saturday, “ and,” con¬
tinued Mr. Maskelyne, “ he kept me and my assistant
hard at work for two years. Many a night has he kept
me up, so I have a kind of affection for Psycho.”
DESCRIPTION OF PSYCHO AND HIS PERFORMANCES.
Psycho is a small figure seated upon a wooden box
full of mechanism; the figure and the box can be
examined inside and outside by a committee from the
audience, then placed on the top of a large glass
cylinder about two feet high, also well examined by the
committee, and both the cylinder and Psycho can be
closely watched by the committee while the automaton
plays a game at whist, and while Mr. Maskelyne and
everybody connected with the performance is not near
the figure. Psycho and his box are really well filled
with clockwork; no cunning arrangement of mirrors or
optical illusion conveys the idea of the presence of
mechanism which has no real existence. The members
of the committee may pass their arms right through
the small box on which Psycho sits, and pass a stick
through the centre of his body. The above engraving
represents Psycho, sitting upon his box.
Several of the motions of Psycho are evidently
produced by the clockwork, but the problem is to
ascertain how the unseen intelligent operator who
works the automaton, can start and stop one or another
set of clockwork at will, so as to make Psycho lift up
the right card when his hand is over it, or make him
strike a bell.
Before I went to see Psycho last Saturday, I inferred
from the newspaper descriptions of the performance
that his box was placed upon a double cylinder of glass,
so that while the outer cylinder was motionless and
supported the box, the inner cylinder by being turned
in one direction by an unseen operator below the stage,
could start one set of clockwork, and by being turned
in the other could stop it; also, that by being pushed
upwards, or pulled downwards it could start or stop a
second set of clockwork governing other motions of the
figure, the committee not knowing all the time that
they were looking through two closely-fitting glass
cylinders instead of one. They could only discover
the presence of the second cylinder while looking
through the arrangement, by what opticians call the
“double reflection ” of light from the surfaces of the
glasses. This might be abolished by filling the small
air space between the two cylinders with glycerine,
and then nobody could tell that two thicknesses of glass
were there instead of one.
But when I saw Mr. Maskelyne roll his glass cylin¬
der off the pedestal, and let anybody lift and examine
it, and when it was proved that the surface of the
pedestal was nothing but an unbroken piece of green
baize, it became evident that the secret was of a deeper
nature.
After carefully watching the working of the auto¬
maton, I came at last to the conclusion that the clock¬
work was started or stopped by the unseen operator by
means of compressions or partial exhaustions of the air
inside the cylinder. Suppose a bladder to be tied on
the end of the upper glass tube in the accompanying
diagram; so long as there was no pressure of air in
the tube the bladder would hang down in a flaccid
state. But blow through the tube, the bladder will
swell out, and if in so doing it pressed against a brass
lever arm, the motion of that arm might be made to
start a set of clockwork, and when the arm fell back
again in consequence of sucking the air out of the
bladder, the clockwork would stop. All this time, a
person looking through the glass tube would see
nothing.
The above, I think, explains the principle on which
Psycho is worked, so the remainder of the explanation
is merely a matter of detail.
How is the air compressed or exhausted at will in
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke’s glass cylinder, and why
does it not escape too rapidly at the upper and lower
edges thereof ?
In Pig. 3 A, A, A, A is the glass cylinder, and B, B
the top of the box covered with green baize, upon
which the cylinder rests. D, D is a metal plate under
the green baize, ‘perforated between E, E, under the
green baize, with a great number of small holes, so
that when there is any pressure of air in the chamber
H, F, H, the air passes freely through the circular area
of the plate full of holes, then through the green baize
so as to cause pressure inside the great glass cylinder
above. The compressed air next passes through, say, four
concealed holes K, K, N, N, in the bottom M, M of the
box on which Psycho sits, and forces up the four
212
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 30, 1875.
bellows (or more probably pistons) above tbe holes;
two of the bellows, namely, those above K, K are
shown thus expanded by the compressed air within
them, and one of the bellows is represented in the cut
raising the lever P, R, the upper extremity of which
was at 0 before the compressed air in the bellows raised
it to R. If the air were to be exhausted, so that the
bellows were drawn down, the point of the lever would
be brought back to 0. The lever might be brought
down by another method, namely, by a spiral spring T,
which would pull it down as the air in the bellows
gradually by leakage lost its abnormal pressure.
The upward motion of. a lever or piston might be
made to start one set of clockwork inside Psycho, and
the downward motion to stop it, and by the use of, say,
four pistons, four different sets of clockwork might be
started or stopped immediately, at the will of the un¬
seen operator who compresses or exhausts the air in the
great glass cylinder.
The exhaustion of the air may, if desired, be used to
raise a lever instead of to depress it; for instance Y
represents a lever raised by one of the pair of bellows
N, H, being brought down, in consequence of some of
the air having been drawn by suction from the large
glass cylinder.
Thus by adding to the number of levers and pistons,
almost any number of pieces of clockwork may be
started and stopped at will, by any operator who can
condense and exhaust the air in the large cylinder
A, A, A, A,
As a matter of fact I expect that small metallic
pistons, and not bellows, are used to start and stop the
pieces of clockwork which move the various parts of
Psycho. Also that there may be only one piston, which
by mechanical contrivance starts or stops two or three
pieces of clockwork at once. When, further on in the
performance, Psycho exhibits other motions than he did
at first, the first sets of clockwork were probably thrown
out of gear and other sets thrown into gear by Mr.
Maskelyne, and very possibly at the moment when he
is seen drawing out a piece of the woodwork near the
legs of the automaton.
The glass cylinder is an exceedingly thick and heavy
one, with its upper and lower edges ground with per¬
fect accuracy, so that when placed on its flat pedestal,
it touches the flat surface of green baize at every part,
and its upper surface comes similarly closely in contact
with the bottom of Psycho’s box. Anybody can see
how carefully the top and bottom of the cylinder have
been ground, when Mr. Maskelyne shows the cylinder
to the observers. The weight of the cylinder hardens
and compresses the green baize where it rests upon it
nightly, thus forming a hardened ring through which
air cannot pass so readily as it does through the uncom¬
pressed baize. But a moderate leakage of air at these
and other parts of the apparatus does not matter.
Sudden and strong compressions or exhaustions start or
stop the clockwork, and a little leakage or entrance of
air between the impulses has no practical influence on
the results.
How are the impulses given ? By a piston, which in
plain English is but a great squirt, the philosophical
instrument used by Master Hawkins :—
I remember, Billy Hawkins
Came, and with his pewter squirt,
Squibbed my pantaloons and stockings
Till they were all over dirt.
This instrument on a large scale is shown at Z, but
instead of being made of pewter, is probably made of
brass. The piston, when driven down by the handle
W, forces the wind out of the brass vessel Z, through
the large pipe below it in the direction shown by the
arrows; this pipe may be many yards in length; thus
the piston may be anywhere, say behind the curtains
at the back of the stage; but the pipe connected with
it ends in the vessel H, F, H, where the direction of
the incqming air is denoted in the cut by the curved
arrow ; the impulse thus compresses the air in the glass
cylinder, and starts one or two sets of clockwork which
move different parts of Psycho in the way already
described. When the continuous motions thus set up in
Psycho are to be stopped, and he is to be made to raise
a card, or to do something suddenly, the piston W Z is
Suddenly pulled up again ; this exhausts the air in the
whole arrangement and pulls down one or more pistons
inside Psycho, the mechanical appliances connected
with the pistons producing at once the desired effect.
OTHER METHODS OE WORKING PSYCHO.
Psycho might be worked in other ways, at slightly
increased risk of detection.
If the light from a single candle held in the hand of
the observer be allowed to fall in an otherwise dark
room upon a large glass ball, or a common glass gas
globe placed a few yards off, the spectator will see a
brilliant spot of reflected- light upon one part of the
globe; then let him light a second candle placed a yard
or two from the first, and he will see two bright spots
on the globe in consequence of the reflection of light,
and so on as several other candles are lighted. Let a
very large vertical cylinder of glass be substituted for
the gas globe, and the experiment with the candle be
repeated, a long, thin, bright line instead of a spot will
appear on the cylinder as each candle is lighted.
In front of Psycho’s glass cylinder at the Egyptian
Hall is a row of foot-lights, consequently the transparent
cylinder appears to the spectators to be covered by thin
dazzling lines of light caused by reflection.
If under these conditions one, two, or three very long
fine polished steel needles came up through the green
baize, then up the inside of the cylinder, and entered the
THE SPIRITUALIST.
213
April 30, 1875.
bottom of Psycho’s box so as to start or stop the clock¬
work, the observers off the stage could not see them, |
the more especially because the cylinder was already
apparently streaked by luminous reflection.
Or if the apparatus were started and stopped by
electro-magnetic apparatus, all Mr. Maskelyne would
have to do after the committee had examined Psycho
would be to get them off the stage. Afterwards in
walking backwards and forwards Mr. Maskelyne might
carry the ends of two fine copper wires, as fine as a
hair, from the side scenes to the apparatus, and loosely
connect them without being detected, and they would
conduct electricity to work Psycho, but before the com¬
mittee mounted the stage again, assistants at the side
would have to pull away the wires, to be afterwards
replaced at a convenient moment.
But the system of working Psycho by means of air
is the best, and is probably the one actually employed.
THE FUNCTION OF THE CLOCKWORK MECHANISM AND OTHER
DETAILS.
One portion of the clockwork in Psycho causes his
arm to move to and fro continuously over a portion of
a circular hoop, round which the thirteen cards of his
hand at whist are placed. His fingers pass on one side
of the cards and his thumb on the other; when he
comes to the right card his fingers and thumb come
together, and his arm raises the card. One aerial
impulse from the unseen operator starts the arm on its
to and fro motion ; another stops it, and causes Psycho
to nip and raise the card. The unseen operator knows
when Psycho’s hand is over the right card because he
can see it, probably from behind the curtains at the
back of the stage. He knows what cards the other
three players lay down, probably because an assistant
concealed somewhere on the top of the stage, is reading
off the cards by means of a good opera glass as fast as
they are played.
Psycho solves and answers arithmetical problems by
opening the door of a box in which ten figures are
revolving on a drum, and he opens the door when the
right figure is at the orifice. A similar drum with figures
driven at the same speed by clock-work is probably
near the unseen operator, so that when the right figure
is presented to him, he gives the handle of the piston
a pull, knowing that that is the moment when Psycho
has the right figure to show to the audience.
Psycho lifts a card which a person, probably a con¬
federate, says is the same one which he or she had
drawn from a pack, and put back again without letting
anybody else touch the cards at all. In the meantime
while this is being done and Mr. Maskelyne is gaining
time by talk, assistants behind the scenes are looking
through the pack to find out the two cards drawn by
two bona fide spectators who, however, were not al¬
lowed to return them to the pack. Consequently
Psycho is soon able to signal the names of cards which
two persons had drawn while the pack was in their
o^n hands.
I have shorthand notes relating to other parts of the
performance, and information to give relating to other
tricks, but this article is already too long. Those in¬
terested in Psycho may be pleased to know that a
photograph containing a portrait of him more accurate
than ours, and In the act of raising a card, together
with full length likenesses of the various performers, is
published by the London Stereoscopic Company and by
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cook, and can be purchased for
a shilling.
Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.] ,
THE BAZAAR.
Sir,—It was gratifying to see by Mr. Adshead’s letter in last
week’s Spiritualist that some interest is taken in the provinces
in the coming bazaar, and permit me to express the hope that
both London and provincial Spiritualists will more than justify
the expectations formed by the promoters of the scheme for
raising funds for the opening of the new offices free from debt.
If we all do our duty, not only will this be accomplished, but
a handsome balance ought to remain in the hands of the com¬
mittee.
Permit me to suggest that donors of goods to the bazaar
should at their earliest convenience forward parcels to mem¬
bers of the committee, in order that as little trouble as pos¬
sible may be given to those who are doing the active work in
connection therewith. The fixing of stalls and other details,
involving much labour and responsibility, will be much facili¬
tated by the goods being in hand ready for arrangement before
the day of sale. Let us each endeavour to make this effort a
decided success, each feeling it a privilege to contribute some¬
thing towards the object in view. That object is to strengthen
the hands of a representative society, which does not interfere
with local interests or associations, but is formed on the
broadest basis for the purpose of affording facilities for in¬
vestigating a subject which is at the present moment engaging
the earnest attention alike of scientific men and moral re¬
formers.
Let those then who have proved for themselves the truth of
the glorious gospel of immortality show by their liberality that
they have confidence in the principles they have espoused,
and let us not sow sparingly, lest we reap also sparingly.
John Lamont.
Fairfield, Liverpool.  
THE FIASCO IN BARIS.
Sib,—Mr. Gledstanes’ letter in your issue of the 2Srd is
painful reading. It seems as if we were never to obtain sure
evidence about this question of materialisation. Is it that the
spirits concerned are destitute of moral consciousness, and
lead their mediums to deceive,—that phenomena are not
always to be had, and when procurable, make a severe drain
upon the medium, and so are counterfeited to save the trouble,
and to keep up appearances ? Certain it is that some of those
mediums with whom most assured results have been obtained,
have also been detected in barefaced fraud. The case of the
Holmes mediums is to the point. Mr. Dale Owen and Dr.
Child expose a systematic fraud, carefully prepared, and elabo¬
rately carried out, one which shows the mediums to have been
quite without the power to appreciate the enormity of the decep¬
tion they were practising; and forthwith Col. Olcott proves to
demonstration that similar phenomena occur in their presence
when every chance of fraud is carefully eliminated.
It was the same when they were in England. I have no
doubt whatever as to their power, and as to the reality of the
materialisation of faces which I witnessed with them. Other
persons have just as little doubt that they were impostors in
some cases. And it seems to be so with Firman. Though
Mr. Gledstanes does not say so directly, there seems to be no
sort of doubt that Firman was detected in an abominable
piece of deception, of which no other explanation can be
given. The “ white stuff ” and silk shawl remain in evidence.
Whence came they ? and where have the crown and the mask
and the gloves gone to ? Is it possible that the medium may
be the unconscious instrument in the hands of deceptive
spirits, who dress him up and make him act a part ? Is there
any evidence within your knowledge that would countenance
such an hypothesis ? The drapery and shawl must have come
from somewhere. Were they brought in consciously by the
medium ? Did he deliberately conceal them on his person for
the purpose of deception? or were they brought in by the
spirits? It must be remembered that there are undoubted
cases of genuine materialisations with Firman as with the
Holmes mediums. And the appearance of the Indian is always
the same; the shawl is always part of his dress. If then it is
spiritually produced in one case, may it not be so in others ?
In other words, may we not conclude that it is at any rate
possible that the invisibles are the originators of the deception,
and that they furnish the means for carrying it out ?
Another point is worth noticing. Whatever process that
may be which we call materialisation, it is certain that objects
which are so presented melt away if ^handled too suddenly;
214
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 30, 1875.
that pieces of cloth and linen remain after separation from
the drapery with which the spirit was clothed,—that drapery
vanishing with the spiritual body which it covered. Is it
possible that the sudden pouncing upon the spirit caused it
to melt away with some of its materialised clothing, while a
part—the shawl and some drapery—remained ? Is there any
experiment within your knowledge, that would lend a colour
to such a supposition ?
I think one has a right to demand that in such a matter as
this, no evidence should be put forward save that which is ob¬
tained under strictest conditions. It is easy to ascertain
whether a medium has drapery concealed about him, by
making him change all his clothes before the seance. If he be
then placed in a corner of a room where there is no door or
window, and in a house not his own, the opportunity for
deception is absent. Let the experimenter leave him untied—
no tying is really of any service—and steadily persist in seeking
such manifestations as will lead to a clear view, in good light,
of medium and spirit form together, or to] the materialisation
of a form whilst the medium is held by one or two persons.
Such a plan, steadily persevered in, would yield results which,
if very slow, would be very sure; and one fact ascertained
under such conditions is worth any amount of trouble in the
getting; for one would be sure of it, and in the midst of the
mass of worthless evidence which is recorded about this
matter, it is very hard to be sure of anything.
One word more. An act of deception, however abominable,
ought not to invalidate the weight of such a fact as that to
which I drew your readers’ attention some weeks ago. I
trust that Mrs. Gledstanes will furnish a clear and direct state¬
ment of results obtained when Firman was held. If only in
one case a form was materialised 'under these conditions, it
proves the reality of his mediumship. The broad facts of
materialisation fortunately do not rest on the evidence of any
one man. M. A. (Oxon). *
April 26tb, 1875.1
Sib,—The highly important letter from Mr. Gledstanes in
your last may be, so I hope, the signal for a thorough investi¬
gation of an affair, which is one of similar cases which have
several times shaken the ground of gained experience without
leaving a clear view of things behind. In this instance, my
own former connection with Mr. Firman (son of Madame
Louise-Firman) enables me to add my testimony to his power¬
ful mediumship being the agency in the extraordinary mani¬
festations in the physical part of our seances (vide Spiritualist,
14th Nov., 1873). Shortly before both mother and son left
Manchester he tried for materialisations, but they were very
unsatisfactory, and sometimes looked like shams, without
offering positive evidence of wilful deception. Therefore I
ignored them in my reports, waiting for further developments.
Guided by my long and carefully continued investigations,
and aided in the meantime by the valuable instructions in
your paper, I came to the conclusion that manifestations,
before they assume a decided shape, partake often of a sus¬
picious character, especially when suddenly interrupted. The
common table-moving, for instance, with contact, will present
a chain of self-deceptions until by lifting from the ground, or
moving without being touched, it leaves the field of our
knowledge, and enters that of so-called spirit action. I may
liken it to the attempt of a big bird to fly. The animal runs
awhile until the power of the wings gets the uppermost, then
it rises. Before this point one observer will insist, “ He
runsthe other, “ He flies.” Both are right from their point
of view. Perhaps this is yet to come. But the idea of
watching the proceedings in a cabinet is highly suggestive,
and here, as well as in the elementary stages of mani¬
festations, the observer may catch some facts suspicious
enough, but in waiting to the end will find his wits set at
nought. If now, in the case of Mr. Firman’s capture, positive
evidence of wilful deception could be furnished, it would be
only another instance of mixing up the genuine with fraud,
and a good share of indignation would fall to the investiga¬
tors for omitting strict test conditions. In spite of the cor¬
ruption many mediums may perceive in the example of the
so-called respectable classes, of unfairness by the assumption
of the right of breaking conditions on their side, no mercy
whatever should be shown in cases of undoubted imposture.
But before judgment is passed the utmost severity of sifting
should be used; thus may this affair be turned to good ac¬
count, being taken up by so able an investigator as Mr.
Gledstanes. C. Reimers.
Ducie Avenue, Manchester
THE DEVELOPMENT OP MEDIUMSHIP.
Sib,—At a particular stage of human progression, sur¬
roundings antagonistic to the development of mediumship are
unhappily rather the rule than the exception. But few minds
are prepared to shake off the shackles of the old teachings
which bind the spirit, in order to soar into the broader freedom
of the heavenly knowledge now descending into our midst.
Those who are so qualified, and essay to lift themselves up,
meet with an opposition which in some instances demands the
greatest power of will to withstand, and the exercise of a self-
control almost superhuman. But if the will be weak, and the
nature sensitive and loving, the spirit receives wounds which
sooner or later affect the physical well-being, and the mind or
body inevitably suffers. In these antagonistic spheres not
only mortal opponents are to be encountered, but spirits—
earth-clinging,ignorant, and stubborn in their ignorance, loving
their old darkness, and setting themselves to oppose the light of
new ideas and knowledge by every means open to them, which
means are too often those of an indescribable torment inflicted
upon the sensitive, newly developing medium. If they happen
to be spirits who are confirmed in some old religious creed, by
which they have become mentally purblind to the light of
truth, they consider they are doing the best thing for the
salvation of the being in the flesh, whose spirit already sees
clearer than theirs. But if of a lower nature still, they happen
to be attached to certain individuals of the family, or even the
locality, and find their abode comfortable, as is the case many
. times, more especially in haunted houses, they dread the in¬
crease of a power which may dislodge them, and selfishly tor¬
ment mediums to frighten them off from progressing any fur¬
ther in development. Of course to encounter such a host of
enemies in and out of the flesh, demands a mind almost super¬
humanly calm, patient, determined, and self-controlling,
and that the bodily health should be preserved unbroken;
for often this weak point is assailed, and the balance up¬
set, when hysterical or delirious attacks ensue, or periods
of debility and prostration. Truth, however, always meets
with more or less antagonism: it has ever been the same old
story, the opposition of ignorance to knowledge, darkness to
light, and man is always the sufferer. There must always be
some martyrs—saviours—men or women whose lives are ren¬
dered up in one way or another for the benefit of human kind.
Our acceptance of what we intuitively feel, with minds in
advance of those around us, to be true, seems to turn against
us our nearest and dearest, who immediately commence a
species of persecution. ” / came not to send peace, but a
sword,” said Jesus. “A man’s foes are they of his own
household. ”
In all cases of unhappiness, or apparent disorder in the
opening of communion with the spirit world, prayer is the
especial safeguard,—earnest, soul-felt prayer to God for guid¬
ance, for truth, for preservation, and protection. Prayer
never fails to bring its response in some form or other, and it
surrounds the soul with an atmosphere of purity which is a
defence against the assaults of low spirits. It not only invites
the company and protection of the higher spirits, but also
strengthens and adds to their power of protection. It is es¬
sential, too, to know those who are appointed to the important
office of guides. This may be ascertained in the first instance
through some good and reliable medium, and, once ascer¬
tained, an appeal in any difficulty can always be safely made
to them. But no one should be satisfied with a guide who is
not likely to be qualified for the office; who has not passed
through an earth-life marked by goodness, benevolence, and
some intellectual training; for a great deal of mischief is fre¬
quently done to developing mediums by spirits too ignorant to
know how to take care of them. The foolish eagerness of the
mediums, also, for rapid development, often acts upon the
spirit-watchers, and forces them to do more than the system
of the medium can healthfully undergo. A wise, high spirit
can never be induced by the anxiety or eagerness of the medium
to swerve from what he sees to be essential to the bodily and
mental health of the being under his care. Hence the
necessity for feeling sure of the protection of one qualified to
guide.
If in the beginning of development lower spirits take con¬
trol, and assume the office of guides, they are sometimes forced
by the higher spirits to confess their quality in some way or
.other, and to leave the medium ; but not so readily if the as¬
pirations of the medium be low, and he do not pray for pro¬
tection. In this case he lays himself open to the danger of
obsession, or, if that be impossible, he will most certainly be
liable to meet with deception and misleading. In all cases it
is necessary to “ try the spirits”—that is, if a spirit ever seek
THE SPIRITUALIST.
215
April 30, 1875.
to obtain arbitrary control, to the point of forcing the medium
to commit acts contrary to reason, propriety, or morality; if
his teachings be not pure, elevated, and instructive, his com¬
pany had best be declined. It must always be borne in mind
that a man’s own will should be sufficient for his protection:
the spirits, who are lower than he, can never command him
unless he weakly yield himself to their power, while the higher
spirits will never seek to interfere with his freedom. In all
instances where disorderly influences have upset the health of
mind or body, a good healing and developing medium, known
to be under good direction, and leading a pure life, is better
qualified to deal with the case than any non-spiritualist doc¬
tors, who very often make matters worse. The victims of
family persecutions, low spirits, or their own folly, being thus
brought under the notice of the higher spirits, every essential
is studied, the obsessing or tormenting spirits are removed,
and suitable directions given for cure.
The development of mediumship is under any circumstances
always accompanied with peculiar physical sensations, in some
instances amounting to positive suffering. A refining of the
material envelope of the spirit goes on, and this cannot be
done without more or less pain. When the medium has been
selected as suitable for public ministrations, the work is
carried on unceasingly ; the nervous system suffers from ex¬
haustion, the brain from the inevitable strain put upon it;
and the physical powers generally sympathise. Rest under
the care of the guides is the only restorative necessary in
these cases; they administer during the mesmeric sleeps they
induce every healing influence essential. Some mediums are,
however, so unhappily situated on the earth-plane, from a
lack of bodily comforts, or healthful society—by which is
meant harmonious or congenial friends—that the restorative
power of the guardian spirits is greatly impaired, and the
work of development painfully retarded. These public instru¬
ments, when found to be useful—and, if selected by the
spirits, they will be found to be always suited to the sphere of
use they are appointed to fill—should be cared for with ten¬
derness and appreciation, and aided in every way to reach the
highest point of excellence it is possible for them to attain in
their peculiar line. This is one of the works of charity
Spiritualists should mark out for themselves. We have had
instances of its being nobly performed already by some
members of our body, and the cause has been advanced
thereby.
Those who accept Spiritualism from the heart as a truth
which must henceforth make a part of their very lives, neces¬
sarily advance a step in spiritual development. Truth never
comes to the mind without the necessity for progression, but
in progression suffering has to be encountered: and these
souls begin at once to struggle upwards, clad in the shining
armour which marks them to the eyes of spirits as champions
of the new faith. The most painful sufferings they have to
encounter are those of the spirit, induced by the grand neces¬
sity for self-conquest, or the triumph of the higher, the innate
angelic or God-like nature over the lower. Some persons seem
born with innocent, transparent natures; they are of a simpli¬
city perfectly childlike, and pass through life contented as chil¬
dren in their father’s house, with all that befalls. Such beings
are dear to the spirits—they find them to be so easily moulded;
they are their most available instruments. These probably,
having less of an evil nature to conquer, suffer less ; but the
period of trial, temptation, and struggle for self-conquest,
comes for all. It is, in short, the human destiny; without
passing through these periods of conflict with self, man can
never reach his highest point of perfection. The higher and
nobler the aspirations, the sharper the battle; the more
exalted the position to be attained in the aim after human
excellence, the harder the struggle necessary to attain it. The
dark hour spreads itself over every soul so struggling,—that
hour in which it seems the very life must be yielded up ; and
in the quiet night, under no eye but that of God and His
angel ministers, the battle is fought, and the victory won.
None but those who have borne it, know it; and it is possible
to die a death in the body, and bear it for years afterwards the
renewed habitation of a cleansed and purified spirit. The vic¬
tory is sweet, and the subsequent happiness angelic.
Such is “ development ” upon the highest plane. The
opening of the spiritual faculties by which we may see, hear,
and converse with souls gone before, may render this develop¬
ment* more or less painful; more painful if there be more to
overcome, less if the soul have already attained to a high
state. But as, in becoming the vehicle for spirits to com¬
municate, we arrive at a condition of extreme sensitiveness,
our sufferings become all the more acute because of this sen¬
sitiveness. There is no longer the dulness of the flesh inter¬
posed, but this has become so refined that the spirit bears it
like a diaphanous garment through which it is exposed to
acuter pain.
Who will not rejoice, however, when, the battle being won,
angel brothers and sisters gather round with words of cheer
and comfort, and faces beaming with joy ! Their delicious love-
sphere enters into the very being, we feel the bliss of heaven,
we breathe, smell, taste, and feed ourselves upon it, and
know, while still in the body, the ineffable joy of spirit
existence. No brave heart will turn from the battle, knowing
what is to follow upon the victory.
If our words can encourage any so struggling, if we can
point the way to a quicker deliverance, if we can send a ray
of light through any confused and baffled mind, if we can aid
any father, mother, brother, or sister to minister properly to
suffering mediums in their midst; if we can cheer any aching
heart fighting against antagonistic surroundings and the pre¬
judices of loved ones who obstinately shut out the light—then
we have not written in vain. Catherine Woodeorde.
March 21st, 1875."
MR. WASON ON THEOLOGY AND OTHER SUBJECTS.
Sir,—Will you kindly allow me to point out and ask you to
correct an error in The Spiritualist of the 16th inst., in which
appears the following statement:—
“ Mrs. Everitt, said that Dr. Hitchman had written to Mr.
Everitt asking to be made a vice-president, but that Mr.
Everitt was not present that evening.
“ Dr. Hitchman was then elected a vice-president.” *
Now the facts are, that after repeated offers to propose him
as a member of the British National Association of Spiritualists
by Mr. Everitt, which were at first declined, Dr. Hitchman
wrote stating that he would accept membership by real pre¬
ference, but if the Council chose otherwise, he left himself in
their hands, more especially as he knew that the most influ¬
ential Spiritualists of Liverpool desired him to be a vice-
president. At the same time he repeated, and with emphasis,
and, further, with an invocation to God,t that “ for himself
he desired no office, or little beyond that of ordinary member¬
ship.”
Your well-known love of truth and justice will, I am sure,
point out 1)0 you that these facts should be made public. Had
I, or had our friend, Mrs. Nosworthy, been in London for the
last Council meeting, either of us would have had great plea¬
sure in proposing Dr. Hitchman for the vice-presidency of
our Association. He is an able, earnest, and fearless exponent
both in public and private of the great truths of Spiritualism,
and second to none in Liverpool in' this respect; he is bravely
fighting the good fight, careless of the injury to his worldly
prospects as an M.D., and of the injury his social position has
sustained, is sustaining, and will sustain, until truth, reason,
and common sense, backed by proved facts, shall have pre¬
vailed over the dogmas, creeds, and blasphemous doctrines
taught in the churches, which, to my mind,. are absurd,
ridiculous, idiotic, utterly unworthy of the nineteenth century,
and scarcely able to hold their own in the dark ages when the
priests and parsons had racks and torments, dungeons and
Inquisition to back their creeds.
This blessed era, the triumph of truth and reason which we
long for, and sigh for, and pray for, may not even in these days
of rapid progress, be a beatific vision like Lazarus in Abra¬
ham’s bosom—seen only afar off.
Paraphrasing the trenchant language of St. Paul, we may
truly say—Thanks be to God, who is giving the victory to
truth, and reason, and common sense, over the creeds, dogmas,
and doctrines taught in the churches which ignore or deny the
verities of Spiritualism, which, in my judgment, are alone
able to stay the black locust cloud looming up from material¬
istic Germany, and (I shame to say) backed up by such able
men as Tyndall, Huxley, and the great bulk of scientific men
in Europe and America. The churches, too, of all denomina¬
tions unhappily, with the blindness of bats and owls, set their
faces against the facts, as well as the great lessons Spiritualism
teaches, whereas they ought to be as a rock in the hands of
Ajax to aid the priests and parsons in the hard task of keeping
afloat the so-called miracles of Christ and the Apbstles, which
with scientific men are at a frightful discount, and de-
* The error was oorreeted last week, and the cause of it is made known
in another column of this number of The Spiritualist. We are glad to hear
that a good worker like Dr. Hitchman is acting with those of us who wish
to see union rather than dissension in Spiritualism.—Ed.
f Perhaps there is a little unnecessary force in this way of stating the
case.—Ed.
216
THE SPIRITUALIST.
April 30, 1875.
rided generally by the. shrewd skilled workmen of England,
Europe, and America, and denied (though reverently), by
one of the ablest and most learned professors of the Univer¬
sity of Oxford, Dr. Baden Powell, the author of the celebrated
tract which caused such a sensation some years ago not only
in Oxford and Cambridge, but in the whole religious world in
Great Britain.
Excuse the length of this letter, for which I alone, and not
The Spiritualist, or the advocates of Spiritualism, am answer-
able. J. Wason, President of the Liverpool
Psychological Society.
Wason’s Buildings, Liverpool.
WOEKS OF CHAKITY IN CONNECTION WITH
SPIEITUALISM.
Cbitical observers have sometimes pointed out that no
organised method of aiding the poor and the afflicted exists in
Spiritualism, forgetting that Spiritualism has had to fight for
its own existence, so that as yet it has had little spare energy
to expend in other directions. Mrs. Wood desires to promote
works of charity in connection with Spiritualism, and it is to
be hoped others will join her in the undertaking, respecting
which she has sent us the following letter:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sib,—Will you allow me, through the medium of your
valuable paper, to inquire if there are any ladies who would
help me to form, in connection with our National Association
of Spiritualists, a Dorcas society to provide clothing for the
poor ? I shall be glad to receive the names of those willing
to join me in this work. M. Thebesa Wood.
Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Brompton.
April 26,1875.
The Spiritual movement is much indebted to Mr. Webster
Glynes for the legal assistance given by him towards re¬
gistering the National Association of Spiritualists, and for
the hard work he has done in promoting public lectures on
Spiritualism.
Next Week’s Soikee.—The next conversazione of the
British National Association of Spiritualists will be held at the
Association’s new rooms, 38, Great Russell-street, entrance in
Woburn-street, next Wednesday evening. This meeting will
have somewhat of the character of an inauguration of the new
premises, being the first general gathering of friends and
members that will have been held there. As only a certain
number of persons can be accommodated without overcrowding,
friends are requested to apply for tickets in advance to Miss
Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Spiritualism isr Marylebone.—The Marylebone Asso¬
ciation of Inquirers into Spiritualism held its quarterly meet¬
ing on Wednesday, 21st inst., at the Hall of Progress, Church-
street, Paddington. Mr. W. Wallace presided. Miss Chandos
and other members spoke of the necessity, above all things, of
living earnest, truthful, moral lives, in strict harmony with
the principles of Spiritualism. The secretary’s report set
forth that the receipts for the quarter were £17 Os. 6d., and
the expenditure £16 7s. 4d., leaving a balance of 13s. 2d. in
the treasurer’s hands. A concert and six lectures had been
given, twenty semi-public seances held, books and periodicals
circulated, and several new members elected. More seances
and experience meetings will be held as soon as the society
can find suitable rooms.
A Case oe Real Distress.—Information has reached
us that Mr. and Mrs. Coles, who came to England from
Chicago this winter, and have been doing work for Spiritualism
as opportunity was afforded them, have, through ill-health
and other unfortunate circumstances, fallen into deep distress,
from which they have received timely relief through the good
offices of Mr. Kipps and Mr. J. W. Haxby. They have been
visited by the Secretary to the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, who will be glad to receive assistance in ministering
to their immediate necessities. The history of these deserv¬
ing, but now suffering friends, is interesting, and no doubt all
will be glad to help in aiding a case of genuine misfortune,
borne with uncomplaining fortitude. Those who are willing
to give contributions, however small, are requested to send
them without delay to Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-
street, W.C.
Dr. Sextom at Goswell Hall.—Dr. Sexton’s Lectures
at Goswell Hall on Sunday evenings are well attended. The
subjects for May are announced, and are of a character to
create a considerable amount of interest. The service com¬
mences at seven o’clock. Goswell Hall, 86, Goswell-road, is
situated a few minutes’ walk from the Aldersgate-street station
of the Metropolitan Railway.
M. Buguet.—Paris being under martial law, M. Buguet
and Mr. Firman have been arrested for taking spirit photo¬
graphs. Of the latter we know nothing, but the former pos¬
sesses real medial powers, which have never been supplemented
by any deeds of his own, so far as we are aware. The Parisian
public being ignorant of Spiritualism, it is not impossible that
there will be difficulty in releasing M. Buguet, although his
powers can be demonstrated to be real by many disinterested
persons of very great influence in Europe.
New Councillors.—Members of the National Association
should not forget that they have each been specially requested
to send in nominations for members of Council whom they
desire to be elected at the forthcoming annual meeting, May
20th. The nominations must reach the Secretary, 38, Great
Russell-street, not later than next Wednesday, May 5, other¬
wise they will be too late. Nobody can be elected who is not
a member of the Association, so it will be of no use to nomi¬
nate such.
The Coming Bazaar.—Contributions, either in money
or kind, still continue to flow in steadily in aid of the Bazaar.
M. Constant has sent a few articles from Smyrna; the
Baroness von Vay announces a packet of her photographs,
besides a gift of money; Prince Emile von Wittgenstein also
sends a handsome donation. The committee will be greatly
helped if friends about to send articles, will furnish lists of
the things likely to be contributed, in order that they may
learn in what there will be a deficiency. They also request
that all contributors will affix an average price to each article
before sending it in to 38, Great Russell-street.
Presentations to the National Association Library.
—The following valuable works have been presented to the
library of the British National Association of Spiritualists, by
Mr. Partridge:—Lyell’s Antiquity of Man: Cooper’s Spiritual
Experiences; Tuttle’s Career of Religious Ideas; Lee’s Pre-
Adamite Man; Lawrence’s Lectures on Man; Colenso On the
Pentateuch; Ashburner’s Philosophy of Animal Magnetism
and Spiritualism; and the Dialectical Society’s Report on
Spiritualism. Mr. Alexander Calder has presented the library
with the following works:—Encyclopaedia Britannica (26 vols);
Beveridge’s History of India; Hume’s History of England;
D’Aubign^’s History of the Reformation; Anderson’s Scottish
Nation; Burns’s Works; and the Waverley Novels; besides
many copies of The Graphic and other illustrated periodicals.
The Lines oe the Saints.—A correspondent who has
lately been in Brussels has furnished the Bookseller with an
account of his examination of the literary workshop of the
Bollandists. The Bollandists are a literary corporation insti¬
tuted early in the seventeenth century for collecting and pub¬
lishing authentic records of mediaeval Church history, in the
shape of lives of all the saints of the Romish communion.
Under every day in the year the lives and legends of the saints
commemorated on the day are collected and recorded. Vast
collections have been made towards completing the lives of the
4,070 saints at present unwritten. This work may contain a
vast mass of interesting psychological facts, to be unearthed
in the future by a student, from the midst of a mass of worth¬
less tradition.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size. 3s.; small size, Is.
Published on the first of each month, Price Sixpence,
The spiritual magazine, edited bygeorge
SEXTON, LL.D.. etc. This Magazine is the oldest of the periodicals
devoted to the cause of Spiritualism, having now been in existence for
upwards of fifteen years. It has from the first taken a very high stand in
the literature of the Aovement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as were likely to
have a permanent interest.
A new series of the Magazine commenced in January, 1875, and this pre¬
sents therefore a favourable opportunity for new subscribers to commence
taking it regularly.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-row, E.C.
SYCHISCHE STUDIEN. A Monthly Journal, chiefly
devoted to the investigation of the imperfectly known phenomena of
psychic life. Edited by Alexander Aksakov, Imperial Russian Coun¬
cillor at St. Petersburg. Published at Leipsic, by Oswald Mutze, Numberger
Strasse, 21. Price 5s. for six months.
April 30, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREA.T AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND OLAIRVOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can be consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
1 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury-squaro, W.O.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bemard-street, Russell-square. W.O.
't> OBERT HARPER is now sufficiently free from busi-
JOU ness engagements to undertake LECTURING and HEALING.—
R. H. has been a close student under many eminent professors in the great
Spiritual University for 14 years. He is willing to communicate what he
has thus acquired, by Lecturing upon the Higher Branches of the Spiritual
Science, to any who may desire his services. The Terms will be made
suitable to the poorest Societies, and may be learnt on application. Address
Soho-hill, Birmingham.
R. W. GK SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-roid, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
TSS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
'f V. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, auswers Sealed
Qj} . Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
'R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is no w on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon Jas engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
kR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By Utters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfleld, Esq., 15,
Lower Beigrave-street, Pimlico, S.W. Dr. M’Leocfns also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture.
’ESSRS. HARRY BASTIAN AND MALCOLM
TAYLOR, Physical and Mental Test Mediums, from America.—
PARLOUR SEANCES every evening except Tuesday, Friday, and
Sunday, at 9, Vernon place, Bloomsbury-square.
8 o’clock. For private seances, address as above.
Tickets, 5s. each; hour
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-stree't, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MJ
■RS. OLIVE. SPIRIT MEDIUM, 49, BELMONT-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests. Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
lyTOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
JlN of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily1, from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con
suit by letter.
M. PARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
• Sittings d la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sitting. Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid for on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, near Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-bill, S."W.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Liiian-villa, Holder’s-hill. Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Gambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs.. 21, Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.O
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryauston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairne-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Riehmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John. 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Ohinnery, Samuel, Esq., 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-roan Blackheath, S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice,D.D , 44,Netherwood-rd., Wes'. Kensingtou-pk., W
Dawe, N. F., 8, Marlborough-road, St. John’s-wood, N.W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex,N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetbam, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.O.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Oobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-stceet, Hyde-park, W.
James, Capt. J , Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.O.E., Junior United Service Club, H."W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lamont, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Nosworthy, Mrs.F. A., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Noyes, T. Herbert, Jun., J.P., Club-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Sexton, George,M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, OldKent-rd., 8.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, 103, Seymour-place. Bryanston-square, "W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.,
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c.,25, Le'e-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapbam Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Wallut on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron VonVay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey,U.S.
The Rev. J.Tyerman, Editor {Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australis.
Mrs *Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 3,556, Boston, U.S.A
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
General Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet; 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave deVeh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Qr. C. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Wurzburg, Bavaria.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York.
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
Dr. G. L. Ditson, Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town Africa.
April 30, 1875,
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST.
EYIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERYES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. Gh Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Pox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Seed, Esq.; C. Bussell Boberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
t “George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken,Esq., Barrister-at-law; J.H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky'volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
A “ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture,’’
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Enquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to he found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings 'or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means-11 No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the medium ? ” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body,
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
Tbe best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.^
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with tbe movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Yarley, C.E., F.B.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred B. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Islam, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay ('Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.) ; Mr. J. C. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Da we;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor-
ihodox London^ Mr. S. 0. Hall, F.S. A.; Mr. H. D. Jenbken, M.R.I., Barris¬
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; Mr.C.
Constant (Smvrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
A BOOK FOR THE MILLION.
Read the following from “ The London Review."
The Two Discoveries; or, Key to Pine’s Spiritual Telegraph. By
Clement Pine. London: Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and of the
Author at Bridgwater. Price Is. By post, Is. Id.
Spiritualism has become one of the most absorbing studies of the day.
Enquiring minds long to pierc3 its hidden mysteries, and fathom its mys¬
terious depths, Those endowed with the highest attributes have been and
are the most diligent searchers into the veiled and sacred spirit-world.
The author of the above soul-absorbing work claims for it the wonderful
power of unlocking the abstruse labyrinths of mathematical science,
enabling everyone, who values the privilege, to converse as freely with
friends in spirit-life as when they were on earth. We must certainly say
that the book is a curious, original, and thoughtful one, which will amply
repay an attentive perusal. It is replete with the most startling evidences
of the truth of Spiritualism, and the author’s spirit of sincerity permeates
every page. The appendix more especially prove i the writer to be a man
of deep learning, profound thought, and a most able mathematician; his
facts are incontrovertible, his reasoning sound, and his deductions clear and
logical. We cordially and strongly recommend this, the most original
book of the day, to the perusal of our readers; and congratulate tbe author
upon producing a work so replete with information, aud of such absorbing
interest as the “Two Discoveries.”
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
Londo s .—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
rriHE SPIRITUAL AND PSYCHOPATHIC INSTI-
I TUTE, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangement.) J. and L. E. COATES, Principals.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman,
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume, Demy 8vo.
pp. 780, price 7s. 6d.
Emanuel swedenborg : his life and
WRITING. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines and the other-world Experiences of the Great Swede are con¬
cisely and faithfully set forth 3 also the sihgular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engrav¬
ings, by C. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svenberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emmanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden,
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-BENTS, HOLBOBN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions o Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish’of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C,
