A RECORD OF THE PROQF(E££ OF THE £CIEJMCE AND ETHICS Of gPIF^ITUA^I^M.
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 52.—(Vol. in.—No. is.)
LONDON: MAY 15, 1873.
Published on the 1st and. 15th of every
Month; Price Fourpence.
OTontentg.
How do Spirits Live?  194
A Trance Lecture     195
Spiritualism in Australia   196
The Psychological Society of Edinburgh—Report on the Mediumship
of Mr. David Duguid      197
Seance at Mrs. Gregory’s  199
Spiritual Leaflets  199
Answers ,to Correspondents       199
Photographing a Spirit by the Magnesium Light   200
Portrait of the Spirit “Eatie King”    201
Poetry—“ Mors Janua Vites ”   204
Correspondence—Spiritualism and Christianity; The Sexes; Messrs.
Maskelyne and Cooke’s Performances; Spirit Photographs; Spirit
Faces; Sapia Padalino’s Case   204
Paragraphs—Haunted House in Berkeley-square, 198; St. John’s Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists, 199; Man and the Ape, 204; England’s
Patron Saint, 206 ; Royal Institution   '     206
The Best book for Enquirers—The latest phenomena!
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
An account of the astounding phenomena of Spiritualism affording positive
proof by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; that Spiritualism is sanctioned by Scripture
and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens of com¬
munications received; extracts from its literature; advice to investigators;
addresses of mediums, and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 8s.; post free 38 stamps, or four copies for 10s. 6d. from Messrs.
Ireland & Co., publishers, Manchester, from whom copies of the table of
contents can also be had for distribution.
London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR-
CULATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
ALSTON ASSOCIATION OE ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino road, Dalston, E. Stances are held
every Thursday evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of forma¬
tion for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules on application to the
Secretary. Subscription 3s. per quarter in advance. Thos. Blyton,
Secretary, &c.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH
meets on the first and third Wednesdays of each month, in 5, St.
Andrew-square, at 8 p.m. Business for 21st May: Report from the sub¬
committees’ circles; Paper on “ Impressions,” by J. D. Morrison, M.A.;
Notes on the Planchette, by the President. W. J. Fraser, Hon Sec.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks,
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to-
FRANOIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
Aaron franklin, preseryer of birds
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. AARON Franklin, 58, Suffolk-
street, Birmingham.
EPPS’S COCOA. — The Civil Service Gazette
remarks—“By a thorough knowledge of the natural laws which
govern the operations of digestion and nutrition, and by a careful application
of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr. Epps has provided our
breakfast-tables with a delicately-flavoured beverage which may save us
many heavy doctors’ biUs.”
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverage.
British imperial insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,000 in 200,000 Shares of £1 Each.
Head Offices: BROWN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
Chief London Offices: 20, KING WILLIAM STREET, E.C.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Bayford, LL.D., Senior Registrar, Court of Probate
Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man
Chester.
William Gimber Goodliffe, Accountant General, India Office, Westminste
London.
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher Weguelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, 57£, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by.the “British Imperial”
(originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c., ®s., of Somerset House, and
adopted with some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and Convenience.
In Security, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon English Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the
National English Life Table, compiled by the Registrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
British national insurance corporation,
LIMITED.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Ojffces.-BROWN STREET AND MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums:
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.C., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEATEN OPENED.—Part II. being furtber descrip¬
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing tho
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave-Maria lane, E.C.
Also Part L, price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
194
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 15, 1873.
1% Sprl&fcl ®^xrgp|||
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS -.—Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial .letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
OORRBSPONDENOE.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters.containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y?—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman-Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.'
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
Or The Spiritualist maybe had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and'New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s. 6d., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
HOW DO SPIRITS LIVE ?
When this journal first made its appearance, it ap¬
proached Spiritualism just as any scientific man should
approach a subject of which he is totally ignorant,
namely, by collecting accurately observed facts, with no
prejudice or bias whatever respecting them, and with no
hastiness in drawing conclusions from the" evidence.
The result was that in process of time enthusiasts who
found little but facts in these pages, and who believed
that Spiritualism was going to regenerate the world
forthwith, and “friends of humanity” with their heads
too high in the clouds to recognise the practical value of
plodding, hard work, began to denominate this a “ phe¬
nomenal journal,” incapable of appreciating the high
and mighty tendencies of Spiritualism, and with no
soul above the regular recording of wonderful manifes¬
tations, just as one might perseveringly note down re¬
markable developments in continuous conjuring. Nor
were these prevalent ideas of the superficial, worth the
trouble of refutation, since time in the long run proves
all things. Hard study of the facts themselves soon
made it evident that the assumed Spiritual revelations,
were usually more or less unconsciously coloured by the
mental nature of the medium through whose instru¬
mentality they were of necessity given, also by the
bias and opinions of his attendant spirits, so that the
majority of spirit messages consisted of a mixture of
the thoughts of the medium with the thoughts of dis¬
embodied spirits ; a third ingredient in the conglomera¬
tion was also introduced, in the shape of errors inci¬
dental to the process of mental telegraphy. Hence, it
became evident that the political, social, and other
reforms which our kindly critics were publishing to the
world as “ the teachings of Spiritualism,” were simply
their own private and particular notions, stimulated by
the opinions of their personal friends out of the body.
Such teachings do indeed proceed from sections of the
spirit world, but not necessarily from the spirit world
as a whole ; in short, the only genuine universal truths
of Spiritualism are those spiritual, mental, and scientific
facts, which are as universally unquestionable as the
statement that a straight line is the shortest distance
between two points. There are some very good ideas
in Swedenborg’s writings, which are often promulgated
as “ the teachings of Spiritualism,” but in time the
ordinary scientific method of investigating the pheno¬
mena will enable students to point out with considerable
certainty what proportion of his experiences were really
spiritual, also what proportion were influenced uncon¬
sciously by his own mental nature, and by the errors
incidental to the method of telegraphing the ideas
which spirits were evidently trying to force through his
brain into our lower world.
The result of the slow but sure method of investi¬
gating in accordance with the principles of positive
philosophy is, that 6f late we have been enabled to
publish some of the laws which govern mediumship and
the development of the phenomena, also to point out a
great error made by such an experienced observer as
Mr. Serjeant Cox, in his published statement that
mediums have no characteristics distinguishing them
from other people. Spiritualism is more a mental than
a physical science, and those who study mental'pecu¬
liarities can tabulate the characteristics which differen¬
tiate physical mediums, and that, too, with very great
certainty. After this self-congratulation over a few of
the results of several years’ hard work, we cannot help—
Feeling adown the small o’ the back
That gentle warmth which creeps upon us, when
We know that we have said a good thing,
Although the vain world
Never can, and never will.
Washington Irving tells a story setting forth how a
man took a run of five miles to jump over a hill, but
when he reached the bottom he sat down to rest, and
then walked over at his leisure. In like manner, a
rather long run having been taken in the preceding
remarks, there may be no harm in beginning to ap¬
proach the question printed at the head of this article,
namely, “ How do spirits live ?” The answer is, that
as yet we have not sufficient data to enable a satisfac¬
tory reply to be given.
Nevertheless, the question has become divested of a
proportion of its difficulties. If a butterfly attempted
to teach a caterpillar about its life, the latter might
doubt, to begin with, whether the glorious being perched
before it upon the cabbage stalk had ever been a cater¬
pillar at all) just as some people can scarcely believe
in spirit intercourse, at the very moment that its reality
iff being made evident to all their senses. But if the
butterfly began to talk of trees and houses, railway
engines and carriages, and new vegetables which were
not cabbages, such for instance as roses, it would be
sheer nonsense and utterly incomprehensible to the
poor caterpillar, who would simply go mad, if he un¬
wisely attempted too earnestly to grasp ideas which, if
assimilated, might be of little use to him while in the
rudimentary stage of existence. In like manner are
mortals perplexed when a few of the powers of spirits
are practically unveiled. For instance, when a clair¬
voyant in London sees events ’taking place at the same
Mat 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
195
moment in Glasgow, there is no denying the fact, but
the acceptance thereof is a heavy mental strain, and a
blow to preconceived ideas of the inherent nature of
things. And when events of the future are revealed, in
minute detail, in advance—of winch there are occa¬
sionally most startling instances in Spiritualism—the
intellect is tempted to deny the fact, even when it is
legitimately completely undeniable. Under these cir¬
cumstances Spiritualists are hut in the position of the
caterpillar to whom the butterfly has succeeded in im¬
parting hut one thousandth part of the total amount of
truth it Knows. The butterfly, again, may have its
mode of expressing its thoughts changed from the
method it employed while in its rudimentary stage of
life, just as spirits say that they have new modes of
expressing their thoughts to each other; so here, again,
a great source of difficulty and error besets spiritual
telegraphy. It is good, however, that there should he
such a deep gulf between the two stages of existence ;
could we learn all about spirit life now, we might be
tired of the new life before entering it, and it is well
that it should burst upon us with all the novelty and
freshness with which our lower world bursts upon the
gaze of a child.
Spirits communicate chiefly by mesmerising the
medium, and trying to give lessons by vision, speech, or
other methods. The medium may believe these things
to be objective realities, whereas they are often but
symbolical teachings. Swedenborg taught that the
next \Yorld is analogous to a great man. Is it not so
with this world? Do not the more intellectuahpeople
gravitate of necessity to the head, and the sensual
material people—who are obliged to do the physical hard
work—to the feet ? And if the latter attempt to rise
violently and suddenly to the head, without self-im¬
provement, are they not of necessity hurled down again
by irresistible laws ? Yet the spiritual and universal
truth which burst into a sensuous form in the brain of
a Swedish medium, perhaps to his own misguidance, may
he a subject of amusement to Anthropologists densely
ignorant of psychology, or be held in undue reverence
as a literal fact by an unintelligent Swedenborgian.
Many of the difficulties which beset spirits in their
attempts to convey spiritual truths by vision, are con¬
sidered by Mrs. De Morgan in her book From Matter to
Spirit (Longmans). She tells, and tries to explain,
how spirits have through many English mediums,
symbolised their passage to the next world, as ana¬
logous to the crossing of a river, and Dr. Eeid has
just announced that medial revelations of the same
kind are common among the North American Indians.
When a spirit mesmerises a seeing medium, what the
spirit thinks the medium sees, and if the medium accepts
the pictorial teachings as objective realities, the unfor¬
tunate spirit, attempting to communicate ideas about
spirit life, cannot help, though he may regret, the mis¬
takes of the medium and his friends.
Notwithstanding all the difficulties besetting the
method of communication, the spirits have succeeded in
proving that the better lives men lead on earth, by doing
good to everybody and everything, the happier will they
be hereafter; that sorrow and trouble result from evil
deeds, not as arbitrary punishment, but by a process of
natural law; that the angels in heaven and upon earth
are happy in proportion to the goodness and usefulness
of their lives; and that there is no eternal punishment.
When the caterpillar has learnt these and a few
other essential truths, let him put them in practice,
crawl down his cabbage stalk, cease wasting his time
in unnecessary conversations with butterflies, and do
his duty in that state of life into which the cultivation
of the ability and intellect given him by God enables
him to place himself.
A TRANCE LECTURE.
Last Sunday week Mr. J. J. Morse, gave an inspirational
address in the trance state, to an unusually large body of lis¬
teners, drawn together by the public interest felt in the lectures
of this well-known medium.
Mr. Ganney, who presided, read a chapter from the Bible,
after which there was some congregational singing. The pre¬
sident'; hen stated that during the few months he had known
anything of Spiritualism, a new life had been opened to him;
some seven or eight of his friends had become mediums;
through their instrumentality he and others had learnt much
without encountering the dangers incidental to paid medium-
ship, not that he wished to say anything against paid mediums
as a body, the labourer being worthy of his hire. Spiritualism
ought not to be a thing of mere wonder-hunting, but should
be used to stimulate and develope the ideas of men, also to
prove the immortality of the race.
Mr. J. J. Morse then passed into the trance state, and under
the influence of the controlling spirit said that all men who
desire to be happy, must come into contact with the divine
and immutable principles of truth; happiness depends upon
living a harmonious life in accordance with those principles,
which every man must search out and study for himself.
The majority of people are inharmonious, consequently un¬
happy. Why is this ? Who is answerable for this state of
things ? Sorrow, and care, and suffering, pass their blight over
thousands of hearts, and how hard it is that those who labour
most for the good of society, can, as a rule, snatch but a few
hours of rest from incessant toil. So far as man has pre¬
vented his brotherffrom receiving his due meed of sunshine, so
surely, before the bar of eternal justice, shall he suffer for it.
How is it, when we have so many paid and appointed am¬
bassadors from the Loving Lord, that they have failed in
their work, the failure being demonstrated by the sufferings of
humanity ? They have failed in their teachings about earthly
life, and what do they know about the next one? If they
taught the truth, that death was no terror, but a natural
process raising men one stage upwards, what a world of sorrow
they might remove. Although the world is in deep darkness,
the intellectual fetters have been stricken from the hands and
feet of men; many of the world’s possessions are rich and
glorious; never before has science drunk so deeply of the
mysteries of mother nature, or revealed so much for human
benefit. But when any truth is revealed strongly opposed to
the preconceived notions of science, she joins in the work of
treading it down ; it is good that it should be so, for if there
were no opposition, evidence would be less rigidly examined,
and the foundations of knowledge would be less com¬
pletely proved from every point. Ask the world’s authori¬
ties where men will go to after death, and they cannot give a
satisfactory reply. The man versed in earthly science can
give no answer. Still, we would not rail at scientific men;
they have served good and useful ends, and directly they see
the value of Spiritualism to themselves they will accept it; it
is good it should be so, though it seems selfish; but it must
be remembered that self-improvement is the basis of all im¬
provement. Men of science know so very much about matter,
and with this great knowledge of what lies on the surface,
many of them think that there is nothing beneath; yet the
true philosopher is aware that it is utterly impossible for him
to know everything, in the short space of three-score years
and ten. Bright and happy spirits, who have dwelt in other
states of existence for centuries, acknowledge that they know
little, and that universal nature is a great enigma to them
still, so why should the mortal student hesitate to admit that
there may be “ more things in heaven and earth, than are
dreamt of in his philosophy ?” Spiritualists have the advan-
tagefnot only of knowing many truths about the life to come,
but of appropriating the other truths discovered by men of
science, so are doubly blessed, while materialistic philosophers
have but the half of these advantages. The truly happy man
is the truly intelligent man, though there is a kind of happi¬
ness associated with low and sensual tastes ; the pleasures of
the mind and the enjoyments of the soul do not die, but live
for ever, and may always be brought to the surface to increase
the happiness of others. At present the drawing into the
196
THE SPIKITUALIST.
May 15, 1873.
human mind of facts outside it, is supposed to be the begin¬
ning of knowledge, but the very reverse is the case; the true way
of beginning to acquire knowledge is to improve the physical
structure of the body, so that the eternal spirit within, maybe fur¬
nished with a fitting instrument to find full expression in the
world without. Book learning is good; it is the stored-up ex¬
perience of ages; but the primary clearing away of defects in
the bodily structure places the individual more in contact with
great principles, the knowledge of which is the root of true
happiness. One man loves to reach up to God through scien¬
tific facts; another through the alleviation of the sufferings
of his fellows; whilst others love to try to reach the
Throne by searching out spiritual truth ; so we find that the
great moving power of the human soul is love—a love that
ever urges the soul onwards and upwards, to learn more of the
Infinite Heart of the universe. Spiritual truth is at a low
ebb. The most intelligent religion the world has yet seen,
consigns a man to the tomb “in the sure and certain hope of
a speedy resurrection.” Truly the resurrection is speedier than
the teachers anticipate, for every worm that comes to the sur¬
face, may contain a part of the departed brother below.' The
loving living soul is not buried with the material body placed in
the ground. You will carry your loves beyond the grave, and re¬
member your old friends, your wife, your children, your baker
and your butcher, and your neighbour over the way. If it were
not so you would lose your own identity and be changed into
somebody else, for recollection of the past is an element in
the establishment of personal identity. A little thought will
show that it must be so. In the after life you will find, not
only that you will remember the friends you have left behind,
but that, if you give work to the matter, there are facilities
for returning, for knocking chairs and tables about, and for
entrancing mediums; in short, that if you wish to return,
there are means for the gratification of that legitimate desire.
God never allows pure desires without furnishing some means
for their gratification, just as He never creates an organ with¬
out a function. We hear many objections to Spiritualism.
One of them is that great men do not take it up—that Lord
This and Dr. That will have none of it. Friends, so long as
you go lord hunting, or blindly following popular leaders and
precedents, so long are you likely not to find much in the
shape of truth; yon had better cease running after this or
that Lord Tomnoddy, and give time to the end of your days
to the putting of your own houses in order; if you do this,
you will be recognised by future generations as the saviours of
the. race. It is said that Spiritualism has effected nothing
very grand in twenty years; but how about the other teach¬
ings which have been in the world for two thousand years,
and proved a failure ? As the infant scholar is unprepared to
receive the higher truths, so is the human race at present un¬
prepared to receive the higher truths'which will come through
Spiritualism; when Spiritualists desire to receive purer spi¬
ritual food, the supply will meet the demand. It is alleged
that an insignificant order of spirits communicate, that the
disembodied usually talk twaddle, talk the very height of
absurdity and the very bottom of nonsense (Laughter). Spirits
may justly reply to this by pleading “ Guilty, with extenuating
circumstances.” In truth, the large proportion of rubbish is
not entirely our fault; everybody knows that the questions
put by mortals at spirit circles are rarely either profitable or
pleasant, but the questions are put, and we give the answers.
When the phenomena of Spiritualism are chiefly sought after
as a fashionable after-dinner entertainment, and physical
wonders are most in demand, when the higher, and holier,
and purer spirits chance to be present at such circles, is the
scene likely to be attractive to them ? Yet, borne by the
impulse of love, they are occasionally present at such scenes,
for they mean to make humanity better and happier in spite
of itself. (Applause.) We speak these words in all kindness,
and our friends now present know them to be true. Just as
is the nature of the aspirating mind, such is the character of
the influx which goes thereto. But, with all its drawbacks,
Spiritualism is bringing down to humanity principles which
men could not have learnt from any other source. Your
desires should aim high even if you miss the mark at first,
in the end success will crown your efforts, for mankind can
bring down the highest and noblest wisdom from the higher
life, when it_makes the attempt, but humanity is not yet in a
position to receive all the truths which Spiritualism can
bring. A strongs objection to Spiritualism is, that about
eighty-five per cent, of the messages are unreliable; still, the
remainder are trustworthy. What kind of work can be done
by an engraver at his bench with a blunt tool ? If the disem¬
bodied have an angular, untrained, and eccentric medium to
act through, how can successful results be expected through
such an instrument ? You have given more attention to the
reception of the communications than to the care, and train¬
ing, and purifying of the instruments through which they
come, and have not tried to instil into their minds all har¬
mony, truth, and happiness. This is a great point, and will
be recognised as such in the future. Wheii Spiritualists do
their proper share of the work, then will experienced observers
cease to assert that eighty-five per cent, of the communica¬
tions are unreliable.
There was a collection at the close, the whole of which was
kindly given by Mr. Morse as a contribution towards the
reduction of the expenses of the Sunday evening meetings.
Without any disrespect to Mr. Morse, it may be stated that
the addresses he delivers in the trance, are very considerably
higher in their nature than any he is able to give in his
normal state.
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
The Bendigo Evening Star, of February 17th last, gives a
report five columns long, of another lecture on Spiritualism,
delivered by Mr. W. 0. Denovan, in the Rifles Orderly
Rooms, at Sandhurst, Australia. Mr. Denovan, in the course
of his remarks, said :—
“Every day is teaching us how little we really know con¬
cerning ourselves and the wonders of creation. It is, no
doubt, a hard matter for many highly educated minds to
believe in the doctrine of the immortality of the soul; but they
have had before now to unlearn many things which they sup¬
posed were as true as mathematical truth, and will have to do so
again. We are not to blindly follow the lead of the scientist
who clings to his darling idea of matter being the first and
only cause of all things, as a child does to his rocking horse ;
because God has bestowed upon us reasoning faculties which
enable us to think and know differently. Plato and Pytha¬
goras, as well as the so-called inspired penmen of the Bible,
taught that the world was flat instead of round, and that the
sun moved round it; instead of it—as the brave Galileo
demonstrated—moving round the sun. Some highly respect¬
able journals in England, supported by men of science, laughed
at and ridiculed the idea of people travelling by rail, or
crossing the ocean in a steamboat; yet all these things have
been accomplished, and millions travel by both these means.
And now, to meet the commercial requirements of the old and'
the new worlds, a telegraphic girdle encircles the globe. Who,
in the presence of such facts as these, will have the hardihood
to assert that God’s omnipotence cannot extend to the per¬
petuation of the lives of all his creatures beyond the present
life ? There may be more truth in the Darwinian theory of
creation than many people suppose. It most certainly
harmonises with the law of eternal progress, which we
see at work everywhere. When we take into considera¬
tion the fact of the infinite magnitude of creation, with
its countless worlds all controlled by the hand of Divine
wisdom and power, we are lost in wonder. With our
poor finite comprehensions we may not be able to solve
the complex problem as to how the spiritual power of the
Creator was formed ; but when we look around us and see this
planet in which we live, travelling in its orbit with a speed
fifty times greater than that of a cannon ball, and yet sus¬
taining in life myriads of living creatures, who are a mystery
to themselves, can we doubt the existence of the spiritual
power of God—the Soul of the universe? Says Professor
Hare : “ The existence of governing reason in this universe
has always appeared to me as evident as the matter which it
controls. ” Let our materialist friends, then, be slow to reject
the evidences of the truth of Spiritualism. Let them do with
this question, as they do with those other questions which
more immediately interest them, subject it to a rigid and
patient investigation ; and by the same law of evidence which
enabled them to believe that an insect can emerge from a
chrysalis into a full-blown butterfly, namely, the evidence'Of
their senses, will they learn the fact, that they and all man¬
kind, when the change called death comes, shall enter upon a
higher state of being. With materialists and free-thinkers,
all progressive Spiritualists have much in common. With
them, Spiritualists enthrone reason above blind faith. They
demand evidence first before giving their faith, faith follow¬
ing as the result of the other. They join with all liberal
minds, whether in the Christian Church or out of it, in sub¬
jecting everything to analysis. Their watchword is—“ Pro¬
gress.” Spiritualists say, in the language of the Duke of
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 15, 1873.
197
Somerset, “ Men who have been carefully trained to distrust
authority, and to rely for the acquisition of knowledge upon
experiment, analysis, and patient research, cannot subse¬
quently divest themselves- of a habit of mind which has
become a part of their nature. They must either suppress
and relinquish all religious thought, or they must apply to the
records of revealed religion the same spirit of investigation
which has already re-opened the sources of history, and
extended the domain of science.” This position, though it
may be and is assailed by the clergy, is an impregnable one ;
and as education becomes the heritage of all, it must of
necessity be the popular one. Spiritualists desire to respect
the consciences of all, but openly proclaim on the house¬
tops their rejection and disbelief in all the leading tenets of
orthodoxy. They reject the story of the Fall. They denounce
as blasphemy the horrible doctrine of a devil rampant and
an endless hell, refusing, in the words of Gerald Massey, to
” accept the notion that God cursed the whole creation on
account of the trespass of one man and woman.” They sub¬
stitute God’s law of progress for that of the vicarious sacri¬
fice ; and whilst discarding the doctrine of the Trinity, believe
in the beautiful philosophy of Jesus as a Divine code, which,
if men would but follow it, would lead to happiness here and
hereafter. They also teach the gradual substitution of the
authority of the parents and schoolmasters for that of the
clergy, honestly looking upon the clerical order as one of the
remnants of the old systems of Government—a sort of moral
police—which the growing intelligence and self-respect of
the people will soon enable them to do without. The pro¬
gressive Spiritualist is courageous enough to stand up and
tell the whole Christian priesthood that they must either ally
themselves with the progressive spirit of the age, or become
reconciled to the fact of their authority and influence being
gradually sapped and destroyed. People are beginning to see
that practical religion—the religion of love and good works—
is of far more importance to humanity at large, than a mere
adherence to old systems of belief or articles of faith, which
have served their day and generation, but which, as man pro¬
gresses in a knowledge of the laws of his being, and rises
higher in the scale of civilisation, are no longer adapted to
either his aspirations or his circumstances. There are at this
moment vast forces of men and women, both inside and out¬
side of all religious systems, and belonging to all sections of
society, convinced that the time is ripe for sweeping changes
both in Church and State; and these forces have long ceased
to believe in the necessity for keeping up an immense army
of professional preachers. These forces—^heretical in the
eyes of the Church, no doubt—believe that the schoolmaster
is a far more useful person to society than the clergyman, and
Spiritualists join with them in this opinion, and in helping
forward the noble work of reformation and education. But
Spiritualists believe, at the same time, in the necessity for
training up the young in a simple love of God the Great
Father of all, and in teaching them beautiful lessons of virtue
and religion.
Mr. J. M. Peebles ended his work in Australia in the mid¬
dle of January last. A purse containing £133 was presented to
him in the Prince of Wales’s Theatre, Melbourne, on the 12th
January, also an additional sum of £23, the proceeds of a col¬
lection. The monetary gift was accompanied by an address,
read by Mr. Charles Bright, the chairman, as follows :—
To James M. Peebles, Esq., Author and Lectu/rer,
Dear and Respected Sir,—We, the Spiritualists of Mel¬
bourne, are desirous, ere your departure from the colony of
Victoria, to record in a form which may be to you an ever¬
present and pleasing memento, our high appreciation of the
valuable services rendered by you to the cause of Spiritualism
and free religion during your sojourn of nearly three months
amongst us. Before your arrival the products of your able
pen had afforded us much gratification and profit. We have
now enjoyed the further satisfaction of your private friendship
and public instruction, and can truly say that our regard for
your personal worth is only equalled by our admiration of the
force, earnestness, and eloquence of your platform utterances.
As the pioneer in Australia of American spiritual missionaries,
you have had to encounter opposition, obloquy, and
malignant misrepresentation, such as are ordinarily meted
out by the world to those who lead the van of religious
reform. We cannot adequately eulogise the patience dis¬
played by you under this persecution, and the calm dignity
with which you have at length succeeded in partially living it
down. The thousands who have flocked to hear your later
expositions of the spiritual philosophy, and the evident
delight with which they have listened to your rationalistic
teachings, furnish the best assurance that your labours have
not been in vain. When your angel-directed pilgrimage
around the globe is concluded, and you are once more seated
by your own fireside, with the loving partner of your life’s
joys and sorrows, a glance at this testimonial will remind you
of the many sympathetic hearts you leave in Australia, and
will tend to convince you of the fact that your noble, self-
sacrificing work has, through the blessing of our infinite
Spirit Father, been crowned with no stinted measure of suc¬
cess. Ever remember us, dear Sir, as your affectionate
friends and brethren. Signed on behalf of the Spiritualists of
Melbourne,—John Ross; Thom as W. Stanford; Charles Bright;
Andrew Dempster ; H. Brotherton; H. Sanders;' G. A. Stow ;
J. B. Motherwell, M.D. ; John Carson; John M’llwraith;
George_Addison, M.D.; W. H. Terry.”
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH.
On Wednesday, last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meet¬
ing of the Psychological Society of Edinburgh, Dr. G. B.
Clark presided.
The following members were balloted for, and unanimously
elected :—Ordinary Members : Mr. Henry Anderson, 16,
India-street, Edinburgh ; Mr. Charles William Doyle, and
Mrs. Doyle, 1, Blackwood Crescent, Edinburgh. Correspond¬
ing Member: Mr. William H. Harrison, Wilmin Villa, Herne-
hill, London. Honorary members: Mr. William Crookes,
F.R.S., editor of the Quarterly Journal of Science, oxA of the
Chemical News ; Mr. Edward William Cox, Serjeant-at-Law,
Deputy-Judge of Middlesex ; and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace,
F.R.G.S., British Museum.
The reading of a paper on “ Impressions ” by Mr. J. D.
Morrison, M.A., and of another by the president on “ The
Planchette,” was postponed till the next meeting.
Six new members were proposed and seconded, and will be
balloted for at the next meeting.
The reports of five sub-committees were read and discussed,
including the following :—
REPORT ON THE MEDIUMSHIP OE MR. DAVID DUGTTID.
The members of the Newington Sub-Committee of the
Psychological Society of Edinburgh having accepted a most
kind invitation given by Mr. James Bowman, photographer,
Glasgow, to witness the very extraordinary phenomena which
usually take place in the presence of Mr. David Duguid, they
proceeded to Glasgow on Wednesday, the 23rd of April last,
for the purpose of reporting to the Society the results of their
investigations.
With that large-heartedness which is always the character¬
istic of a philanthropist and an enthusiastic lover of truth for
its own sake, Mr. Bowman, after showing us every conceivable
attention at his own home, conducted us to the house of his
friend, Mr. Duguid.
Mr. Bowman having introduced us as a Sub-Committee of
the Society, anxious to investigate the phenomena, Mr.
Duguid received us with all becoming courtesy, and seemed
most anxious on his part that everything should be exactly as
we wished. Requesting him to make no difference on our ac¬
count, Mr. Duguid laid bn the table the usual artist’s materials.
Turning to the easel he'ad justed the frame on which was stretched
a piece of cardboard, nine and a-half inches long, by six inches
broad. Sitting down, some what side ways to the company, on an
ordinary chair, and looking towards the left-hand edge of the
front of the easel, Mr. Duguid seemed to have his eyelids forcibly
closed by some unseen influence. This influence continuing
till his brain became fully affected, be appeared to entirely
lose his own individuality, and, for the time being, to be¬
come somebody else. Strengthening this impression, if not
substantiating the position, he seemed to somewhat strangely
look at himself, and to wipe off from his eyelids something
which offended his eye, or something he desired to get rid of.
Or it may be that, instead of what appeared to us the using
of his fingers to dissipate some disturbing influence, the very
first act of his mediumship was to use his fingers as a mes¬
merising instrument, whereby to directly mesmerise more
deeply his own individual sense of' vision, so that through
him the seeing power of the spirit purporting to act through
him might not be interfered with. This preliminary gone
through, Mr. Duguid rose from the chair an apparently dif¬
ferent man, or like a somnambulist bent on some particular
purpose, and at once proceeded to carry out the bent
of his inclination; but before doing so it was ob¬
served by all the company that while to some one at a
198
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 15, 1873.
little distance off he bowed, he shook hands with
somebody close by. Failing to understand this, we
enquired for particulars, when Mr. Bowman informed us that
the greeting was not at all addressed to us, but to his spirit
friends, who, along with us, were watching the progress of
everything. Mr. Duguid now walked directly up to the easel,
and, somewhat to our surprise, at once shifted the frame con¬
siderably higher up, as if the spirit painter were taller ; then
turning to the table, he proceeded to arrange some dozen of
brushes, and lay out in order about twenty different colours.
Lifting a pencil, he returned to the easel, and at once began
to sketch, with great rapidity, his outlines on the cardboard.
Marking for some minutes the progress of the sketching, the
gas was entirely put out. Listening, we heard the pencil
running over the paper at a great rate, in much the same way
as we had seen as well as heard in the light. This movement
of the pencil ceasing, we concluded that the sketching had
been finished, and accordingly we lighted the gas to make cer¬
tain. We were not mistaken, for not only was the sketch
entirely finished, but the brushing in of the background
entered upon, so that what we took for his cessation of work
was due to his standing quietly at the table, mixing his
colours, and arranging his different combinations of tints.
Noting, as nearly as possible, the colours on the palette before
he began, we observed several new combinations of colours,
which most certainly were not only mixed, but matched in the
total darltness. Timing this stage of the proceedings, we
again turned off the gas, and heard the brushing go on in the
total darkness, not only quite as well as in the light, but, in
all probability, all the better for the darkness. During this
darkness Dr. Clark called the attention of all present to a very
beautiful light immediately above the medium’s head, which
we all more or less distinctly saw. After a little, we again
lighted the gas, and found the picture nearly finished. Mr.
Duguid then worked at it some minutes longer, when, looking
attentively at it for about a minute, he rather suddenly stopped
working. Timing this painting, we found that, from the
time he began sketching with the pencil till the time he
finished with the brush, thirty-three minutes only had expired.
Mr. Duguid now took his seat about ten inches from the
table, and from a small box lying on the table took three
small white cards. Raising these cards to his mouth he
breathed over both sides of them, then tearing off a corner of
one he handed the corner to Mrs. Morrison, and doing the
same thing to another he handed the corner of this second
card to Miss Clark. Raps were then heard—which are under¬
stood to be a signal for darkness—and with these raps came to
Mr. Morrison the strongly impressed desire to hold the
medium’s hands, when simultaneously with the gas being
extinguished came the request through the medium to “ hold
the medium’s hands.” Dr. Clark, as if also impressed, asked
Mr. Morrison to hold the medium’s left hand, and Mr.
Bowman to hold his right, which both at once instantly did.
While the medium’s hands were thus securely held, we dis¬
tinctly heard the fall of something like cards on the table,
and at the same time three raps, which being interpreted to
mean “ light the gas,” we did so, when, on the table, lay before
our wondering eyes two of the three corner-torn little cards,
on each of which had been painted, in lovely oil colours, a
beautiful landscape, the execution of which two pictures, in¬
cluding the third one—found the next day sticking within the
globe of the gas lustre—had only occupied about twenty
seconds, being something less than seven seconds for each.
While pleading our utter inability to in any way explain this
seeming miracle, we desire to inform our investigating friends
that these little paintings, executed within seven seconds if
done by one artist spirit, or if done by three separate spirit
artists not more than twenty seconds, were thrown on the
table with the painted sides uppermost, and quite wet from
the brush. On comparing the cards with the corners, which,
from the moment they were torn off never left the hands of
either of the ladies, each card was found to exactly and per¬
fectly fit the corresponding corner belonging to itself, and not
at all either card with either corner.
We next resolved to sit for further manifestations, when, in
about five minutes after doing so, we had the usual tipping,
rapping, &c., which were followed by the more unusual
phenomena of levitation, inasmuch as at the end of seven
minutes from the time of our sitting, the table rose right off
the floor; and floated up to about eighteen inches; and in a
few minutes more, as if to confirm the fact, it again rose full
two feet, being six inches higher than the first. In about
two minutes more we heard the fall of something on the
table, which, on lighting up the gas to investigate matters,
was discovered to be due to the fall of the card-box from
somewhere above the table, and from the sketching pencil
picked from the pocket of the medium. Lying on the table,
beside the card-box and the sketching pencil, were found two
sketches in pencil, no doubt executed by the same clever
intelligent spirit or spirits.
The gas being again put out, we had some more table
movements, but more particularly the exhibition of what are
called spirit lights and spirit perfumes. The first light was
seen above the medium’s head; the second light between the
medium and the fire-place; the third light between Mrs.
Morrison and Miss Clark, which light was seen to nearly light
up the entire left side of the former lady. This light was
observed to intensify, and, after sitting some little, time on
Mrs. Morrison’s left shoulder, to finally settle over her head,
from which point it passed away. During the exhibition of
this light, on the other side of the room from the medium,
Dr. Clark thought that he could see in this third light a kind
of clouded outline of a spirit form. Immediately after this
remark, it was discovered that to Mrs. Clark was given the
first impression of the presence of perfumes, which being
wafted over both hands of Mrs. Morrison, were in about a
minute more felt all over the room, from the extension of the
breeze which first brought so much refreshing delight to the
sitters. Mrs. Morrison thinks it her duty to remark that,
although she did not herself see the particular light observed
by all others to be attendant on her, she felt at the time
of the observation by others that her whole system was
suddenly made lighter, as if something had removed the
ordinary atmospheric pressure, or had reduced it to a
minimum. The fourth light was seen to somewhat dance
between the ceiling and the table, on which table it seemed to
rap. During the time we were sitting in total darkness, and
while the lights were playing all over the room, we heard a
subdued muscular voice, which being recognised by Mr.
Bowman* as a voice he had heard before, was asked the ques¬
tion whether a conversation could be carried on, when we were
informed in the direct spirit voice, that, for want of sufficient
power in the room, no further manifestations could be given.
The Society will thus see that at this seance th.Q committee had
not less than eleven distinctly different forms of manifestations :
We had spirit painting through the medium, David
Duguid, as in the picture 9J by 6.
2. We had direct spirit painting, as in the little pictures,
2f by H.
3. We had table tipping.
4. We had table rapping.
5. We had levitation as in the floating up of the table twice
from the floor, and of the card-box to the ceiling.
6. We had the removal of property from one place to an¬
other, as in the removal of the cards from the card-box, and of
the sketching pencil from the pocket of the medium, and of
both to the table.
7. We had Mr. Morrison mentally impressed to ask for the
liberty to hold the “ medium’s hands.”
8. We had the request instantly granted by a message
through the medium to “ hold the medium’s hands.”
9. We had five spirit lights, and, if the “ five gateways ” of
knowledge into our worthy president’s brain be at all trust¬
worthy, we had also some approach to the spirit form visible
with us as well.
10. We had the most delightful perfumes.
11. We had the direct spirit voice talking to us and answer¬
ing questions.
Reported on behalf of the Sub-Committee.
J. D. Morrison, M.A., Reporter.
The Haunted - House in Berkeley-square.—At the
Marlborough-street Police-court Mr. Knox, the collector of St.
George’s, Hanover-square, applied to the magistrate for a
warrant of distress against the goods of a gentleman named
Myers, occupying No. 50, Berkeley-square, for neglecting to
pay the taxes now due. The house in question is known as
the “haunted house,” and has occasioned a good deal of
speculation amongst the neighbours. Mr. Knox said that he
believed that the neglect to pay the taxes arose on the part of
the owners from eccentricity, but, as he frequently came to
that court for warrants of distress against the poorer class of
tradesmen, he must ask for a warrant against a reputed rich
gentleman. A person who was understood to come from the
owner wished for time before further proceedings were taken.
Mr. Knox said the matter was with the collector; if a warrant
were asked for, it would be granted. A warrant was then issued.
— Weekly Times, May 4th.
May 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
199
SEANCE AT MRS. GREGORY’S.
Last Tuesday night a private seance was held at the house
of Mrs. L. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-
square, W. Our readers know full well what good work in
the cause of Spiritualism has been done by Mrs. Gregory, as
well as by her husband, the late Professor Gregory, F.R.S.E.,
of Edinburgh, so it is pleasing to be able to state, that, after
a winter’s visit to Italy, Mrs. Gregory has returned to London
improved in health, aud recommenced her self-appointed task
of making converts to Spiritualism, among the members of
the educated section of English society.
Among her guests, last Tuesday night, were the Rev. Mr.
Haweis, Mrs. Haweis, Mrs. General Ramsay, Miss Ramsay,
Mr. Charles A. Hanbury, the Rev. Dr. C. Maurice Davies,
Miss Katherine Poyntz, the Rev. Mr. Short, the Rev. Dr.
Cosmo Gordon, Mr. Peele, Mrs. J. W. Jackson, Madame Du
Quaire, Mrs. Wiseman, a clergyman who is a medium, and
prefers to be known only as “ M.A.; ” and Mr. W. H.
Harrison.
Mr. C. E. Williams was the medium. A dark seance was
held first, at which a few manifestations of the ordinary
character took place. Although both Mr. Williams’s hands
were held all the time, lights were occasionally seen dancing
about above his head; two chairs went up in the air, and
tapped four or five persons gently on the head in succession,
without striking or hurting anybody in the crowded drawing¬
room. When the light was struck, the chairs were found
perched one on the other on the top of the table, on which
they had both been noiselessly placed.
Next there was a sitting for the spirit form. A new experi¬
ment was tried, by placing one of the guests inside the
cabinet along with the medium. Occasional lights only were
seen by the observers outside; they may perhaps have
averaged four inches in diameter, were phosphorescent in
appearance, but there was no smoke or smell. Madame Du
Quaire, who was in the cabinet, said she clearly saw a bearded
man, John King, by these lights.
With the exception of the incidents mentioned, the seance
was a weak one, John King stating that too many guests
(about twenty in all) were present for good manifestations.
The Spiritualist may be obtained regularly in Edinburgh
of Mr. Peter Laurie, stationer, 38, Clerk-street.
Last Monday evening, the members of the Marylebone
Association of Spiritualists held a social meeting at 90,
Church-street, Paddington, and after tea the time was chiefly
occupied by singing, music, and recitations.
Although Mr. Serjeant Cox is not a Spiritualist, his new
book, What am I? (Longmans) deals so largely with psycho¬
logical subjects, and gives such solid information about the
structure and functions of the nervous system, as to be of
much value to all persons interested in psychology.
The office-bearers of the Psychological Society of Edin¬
burgh are as follows:—Dr. G. B. Clark, President; Alex.
Keith, R.S.A., Vice-President; R. A. Stevenson, B.A., Vice-
President; Wm. McOraw, Treasurer; J. D. Morrison, M.A.,
Corresponding Secretary; W. J. Eraser, Hon. Sec.; and seven
of a Committee for Circles.
Just before going to press, news has reached us from
New Zealand of the arrival there of Mr. J. M. Peebles, towards
the close of February. He had delivered one lecture on Spi¬
ritualism in the town of Christchurch, and was making ar¬
rangements to lecture in Dunedin, and other places in the
colony. Before he left Australia, not only was a public testi¬
monial and a purse containing about £150 presented to him in
Melbourne, as stated on another page, but a soiree was given
in his honour.
St. John’s Association oe Spiritualists.— Last
Thursday evening, at a meeting of the St. John’s Association
of Spiritualists,in Temperance Hall, Corporation Row, Clerken-
well, London, Mr. James Burns presided. The members of
this society are chiefly working men and women, and they
have held weekly-meetings in Clerkenwell for many years.
Mr. R. Pearce, the secretary, explained that although the
work and usefulness of the society had been increasing, the
number of paying members had been decreasing. The work
of reconstituting the society and revising some of the rules
was then proceeded with. Mr. R. Barber was appointed
president, and the election of other officers was postponed till
to-night.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS.
The rapidity of the growth of the Spiritual movement, as
proved by the circumstances which influence the circulation of
the periodicals connected with the subject, depends chiefly
upon the spirit circles. Individuals who have witnessed’ some
ofl the phenomena in their own homes, or in the homes of
their friends, are far more deeply impressed than they would
be by a dozen lectures or newspaper articles. It follows,
therefore, that strenuous exertions should be made to increase
the number of mediums, and access to our present mediums
should be more limited than it is at present, that they may be
better cared for, and not subjected to many unpleasantnesses
which most, of them are at present unable to escape. All
provincial towns should possess plenty of good mediums of
all kinds, of their own, and be less dependent upon the few
leading mediums residing in London. Consequently the best
way, both to spread Spiritualism and raise up new mediums,
is to furnish instructions “ How to form Spirit Circles ” to every
household in the kingdom. We have had some light blue
Spiritual leaflets handsomely printed, containing instructions
quoted from the Spiritualist, about the formation of circles,
also some evidence that Spiritualism deserves investiga¬
tion. These leaflets may be had of Mr. E. W. Allen,
11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C., in packages containing
four hundred each, price 2s. 6d. per package, postage, 4d.;
or ten of the packages for a guinea. Thus, for a guinea,
4,000 neat leaflets may be obtained—enough to supply one to
every house in all provincial towns, except a few towns of
exceptionally large size. Better work could not be done than
to sow the information on the leaflets broadcast over the
country. Let them find their way into the castle of the peer
and the hut of the peasant; let them be left in railway sta¬
tions, railway carriages, reading rooms, and places of public
resort; a leaflet should be placed under the wig of the Lord
Chancellor, and another dropped into the hat of the Prime
Minister : in short, they should be sown broadcast everywhere.
They will prove of especial use for distribution*at the doors at
public meetings. Some of the persons who receive the leaflets
are sure to try whether they can obtain manifestations, and
there is no difficulty in making proselytes of individuals who
have obtained the phenomena in their own homes. Many
new mediums, also, may thus be brought into the field.
On the leaflets themselves the price of each packet is stated,
in error, to be three shillings; it should be half-a-crown, or
ten packets (4,000 leaflets) for one guinea.
Among the subscribers to the fund for the benefit of the
Rev. J. Murray Spear, is Mrs. Gregory, who has contributed
£5. Subscriptions, of which a list will be published in the
next number of the Spiritualist, should be sent to Mrs. M. E.
Tebb, 20, Rochester-road, London, N.W.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
P. (Lower Norwood).—H. G. A. (Boulogne-sur-Mer).—Your letters
kept over from want of room in the present number.
M. T. (Hendon).—Too little room for fact to be able to give space
to fiction, whatever the literary merit of the contribution.
T.—At some length you misrepresent the ideas conveyed by the
remark of Mr. Tredwen about a possible escape on to the roof,
which, if published, would necessitate his taking some space to
put you right. You also assert that Maskelyne, to your know¬
ledge, can escape from a perfectly empty cabinet, with no shelf
or mirror in it; if this be so, it is perfectly clear that a writer
who first publishes such a vital announcement should put his
name and address to his letter, also give the names and addresses
of some of the witnesses. But if the remark refers merely to the
box trick, the reader being misled by your substitution of the
word “ cabinet,” your letter is a disingenuous one. You ask
how the man gets out of the stocks when observers bring their
own padlocks ? Probably by pulling out the hinges or the
staples, which may moreover be temporarily fastened in their
positions by concealed detents. If you or anybody else can give
new facts in short letters, do so ; but we decline to give more
space to mere controversy on the unimportant subject. Practical
experiments with a bradawl and hammer, made inside the cabinet,
with Mr. Maskelyne’s consent, would be worth more than a
bushel of arguments; but anybody experienced in the nature of
scientific illusions can see at a glance that the shelf, diagonal side
lamps, &c., furnish all the conditions for the performance of the
tricks with a mirror, in the ordinary way. We have seen no
evidence that they are aught but travelling conjurors, so refuse
to admit a controversy into these pages about the possibility of
their being mediums also; but we are quite ready to print short
notes from those who mount their platform, and furnish fresh
/acts about the apparatus and performances.
200
THE SPIRITUALIST.
PHOTOGRAPHING A SPIRIT BY THE MAGNESIUM
LIGHT.
A series of sittings has been held recently in the
presence of responsible witnesses, to photograph the
spirit “ Katie King,” who of late has been temporarily
materialising herself so frequently through the non¬
professional mediumship of Miss Elorence Cook. The
efforts of the experimentalists have been successful,
and the large engraving on the next page is about as
faithful a copy as wood-cutting can give, of one of the
photographs obtained on "Wednesday night, last week.
In the photograph itself the features are more detailed
and beautiful, and there is an expression of dignity and
etheriality in the face, which is not fully repre¬
sented in the engraving, which, however,; has been
executed as nearly as
possible with scientific
accuracy, by an artist
of great professional
skill.
The accompanying
small engraving (Fig.
1) is not a direct copy
of any of the photo¬
graphs, but is compiled
from two or three of
them, merely in order
to show how the full-
length form of the spirit
is usually dressed.
The following ac¬
count of the principal
seance, signed by : all
the witnesses, is rather
more lengthy than the
average of such docu¬
ments, as it was thought
that the extreme novelty
and interest of the ope¬
rations,made it desirable:
that the particulars
should be given some¬
what in detail:— , . Fia P
We, the undersigned, have attended a series of four special
seances recently held at the residence of Mr. Henry Cook, of
Hackney, for the purpose of obtaining photographs of the
materialised form of the spirit, “ Annie Morgan,” commonly
known as Katie King, who manifests through the mediumship
of Miss Florence Cook. The most successful sitting was held
on the evening of Wednesday, the 7th instant.
Katie can now manifest in full form by daylight; but it
being found that the ordinary light in the seance room
(descriptions of which, and of the cabinet, have been given in
former numbers of the Spiritualist) was not well adapted for
photographic purposes, it was resolved by Mr. Harrison, who
volunteered to do the photographing, to darken the room, and
use the magnesium light. At the earlier seances, Katie could
only come out of the cabinet and bear the glare of the mag¬
nesium light for a few seconds at a time, once or twice
during the seance; she had to go back quickly into the
cabinet to gather fresh power from her medium, saying that
the strong and unaccustomed brilliancy of the light made her
“ melt quite away.” But gradually she became more and
more used to it, and at the seance now referred to, no less
than four photographs were taken. It is from one of the best
of these that the engraving is copied.
The cabinet doors were placed open, and shawls hung
across, as on previous occasions already described. The
seance commenced at six p.m., and lasted about two hours,
with an interval of half an hour. The medium was entranced
almost directly she was placed in the cabinet, and in a few
minutes Katie stepped out into the room. The circle being
May 15, 1873.
most harmonious, conditions were exceptionally good. The
sitters, in addition to the undersigned, were Mrs. Cook and
their two youngest children, whose delight at Katie’s fami¬
liarity with them was most amusing. Katie was dressed in
pure white, as previously described in the Spiritualist, except
that her robe was cut low, with short sleeves, allowing her
beautiful neck and arms to be seen. Her head-dress was occa¬
sionally pushed back so as to allow her hair (which was brown)
to be distinctly visible. Her eyes were large and bright, of
a dark blue or grey colour. Her countenance was animated
and lifelike, her cheeks and lips ruddy and clear. Our
expressions of pleasure at seeing her thus before us seemed to
encourage her to redouble her efforts to give a good seance.
By the light of a candle and a small lamp, during the inter¬
vals of photography, she stood or moved about, and chattered
to us all, keeping up a lively conversation, in which she criti¬
cised the sitters,, and j the literary photographer and his
arrangements very freely. By degrees she walked away from
the cabinet and came boldly out into the room. A camera
slide being overlooked, she walked up to a table where it was
some distance away, and placed her hand on it. The door of
the seance room was open all the while, in order that the
plates might be taken out and developed in the adjoining
kitchen. ' The window was. opened several times to admit
fresh air (and with it the twilight) after each ignition of the
magnesium. The photographer and some of the circle were
occasionally moving about, but nothing seemed to interfere
with the good conditions; or stop the manifestations in any
way. Mr. Cook (who arrived late , from the City) and the
servant Mary, having called out from the kitchen that they
would like to see what was going on, Katie bade them stand
outside the door and look in, which they did nearly the whole
of the seance. Katie usually leaned on the shoulder of Mr.
Luxmoore, and stood, up to be focussed several times ; on one
occasion holding the hand lamp to illuminate her face. Once
she looked at the sitters through that gentleman’s eye-glass,
patted his head and pulled his hair, allowed him and Mrs.
Corner to pass their hands over her dress, in order that they
might satisfy themselves that she wore only one robe. As one
of the plates was taken but of the room for development, she
ran a few feet out of the cabinet after Mr. Harrison, saying
she wished to see it; and on his return it was shown to her
he standing close to and touching her at this time. While he.
was absent, she walked up to the camera, and inspected “ that
queer machine,” as she termed it. Just before one of the plates
was taken, as Katie,was reposing herself outside the cabinet,
a long, sturdy, masculine right arm, bare to the shoulder, and
moving its fingers, was thrust out of the opening at the top
of the cabinet through which the faces are shown. Katie
turned round and upbraided the intruder; saying, that “ it
was a shame for another spirit to interpose while she stood
for her likeness,’’ and she bade him “get out.” Towards the close
of the sea/rice, Katie said her power was going, and that she
was “really melting away this time.’’ The power being
weak the admissioii of light into the cabinet seemed gradually
to destroy the lower part of her figure, and she sank down
until her neck touched the floor, the rest of her body having
apparently vanished, her last words being that we must sing,
and sit still for a few minutes, “ for it was a sad thing to have
no legs to stand upon.” This was done, and Katie soon came
out again entire as at first, and (one more photograph was
successfully taken. Katie then shook hands with Mr. Lux¬
moore, went inside her cabinet, and rapped for us to take the
medium out. The only stipulation Katie made throughout
was, that the sitters would not stare fixedly at her whilst she
stood for her photograph.
The seance was given under stringent test conditions.
Before commencing, Mrs. and Miss Corner took the medium
to her bedroom, and having taken off her clothes, and
thoroughly searched them, dressed her without a gown, but
simply with a cloak of dark grey waterproof cloth over her
underclothing, and at once led her to the seance room, where
her wrists were tied tightly together with tape. The knots
were examined by the sitters respectively, and sealed with a
signet ring. She was then seated in the cabinet, which had
been previously examined. The tape was passed through a brass
bracket in the floor, brought under the shawl, and tied
securely to a chair outside the cabinet, so that the slightest
movement on the part of the medium would have been at once
detected.
During the interval of half-an-hour,’Mrs. Corner took charge
of the medium whilst she was out of the cabinet, and did not
lose sight of her for one minute. The tying and sealing were
repeated before the second part of the seance, and on each
May 15, 1873,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
201
PORTRAIT OF THE SPIRIT “KATIE KING.”
Copied from a Photograph taken ly the Magnesium Light.
£
' p
i ps
>
“
Mat 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
203
occasion of the medium leaving the cabinet, the knots, and
seals, and tape, were duly examined by all the sitters before
the tape was cut, and were found intact. The medium was
tied and sealed by Mr. Luxmoorc, whose signet ring was used.
Amelia Corner, 3, St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney.
Caroline Corner, 3, St. Thomas’s-square, Hackney.
J. C. Luxmoore, 16, Gloucester-square, Hyde-park.
Gr. E. Tapp, 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-
park, London, N.
William H. Harrison, Wilmin Villa, Chaucer-road,
Herne-hill.;
Mr. Luxmoore has favoured us with the following
letter:—
To the Editor of the 1 Spiritualist."
Sir,—In the communication which you were good enough to
publish on the 1st inst., I hinted that I was not without hope
that in your next number I should be able to relate “ some
additional facts which our opponents will find a little difficult
to digest,” and I am happy to say that hope, in this instance,
has not been blighted by disappointment. We have long had
the wish to get a photograph of Katie, she having promised
to do all in her power to assist us. On Monday, the 5th inst.,
we had what Katie facetiously called “ a dress rehearsal,” for
the purpose of photographing her while she was materialised.
The difficulties attending the photographic process were very
great, but these you will, I am quite sure, explain much better
than I can. I will only mention that we were entirely
dependent on magnesium powder for light. On this first
occasion, the funnel through which the magnesium powder
had to pass, had too small an orifice, and it was consequently
choked. We obtained faint pictures, which, perhaps, were as
much as we could expect on a first trial.
On Wednesday, the 7th, having gained much experience
from the rehearsal, our efforts were rewarded by what I may
venture to call a great success, as I think will be admitted by
all who see the engraving which I hope you will be able to
publish in the number of the 15th instant.
The sitting was under strict test conditions. Miss Cook
was, just before the seance commenced, taken into her bed¬
room and carefully searched by Mrs. and Miss Corner, in
order to ascertain that she had nothing concealed about her,
and from that time, to the final close of the photographing,
she was not, for one minute, out of Mrs. Corner’s sight,
except while in the cabinet. Miss Cook’s
hands, A, Fig. 2, were firmly tied together
with tape, which was then passed through
a piece of brass, B, fixed with two screws
to the floor (the heads of these screws, D D,
were sealed so that no screw-driver could
be used), and then, round my chair, beyond
E. To make doubly sure, I tied the tape in
a knot at B, before passing it out of the
cabinet to my chair. All knots, except the
last (B), were sealed, that being unnecessary,
as the tape was not severed at this point. To
those who know how these seances are con¬
ducted, I need scarcely add that on this
and all other occasions when tests are
used, the seals are, when Miss Cook comes
out of the cabinet, found to be quite per¬
fect. The distance from her hands to the
floor, when tied, was eighteen inches, so
that it was absolutely impossible that she
could stand upright,'or, indeed, lift herself more than a very
small distance from the low chair in which she sat. Katie
stood perfectly erect, and is taller than Miss Cook,—indeed,
altogether, a much larger figure. She rested her elbow on my
shoulder while some of the photographs were being taken.
This was done to insure her keeping quite still (no little diffi¬
culty for anyone to do, when, suddenly, such a light as that
produced by magnesium, is thrown on them). I, perhaps,
should have stated that Katie was in her usual white robe,
with a portion of her neck bare. If the above are not test-
conditions, I confess myself unable to say what would be con¬
sidered satisfactory. This seance is certainly the best I have
ever seen. Katie walked in full light 'some feet out of the
cabinet, turned round, and allowed us to see her back. Her
arms, hands, and feet were bare, and, certainly, no tape was
to be seen. The tests were in accordance with Katie’s strict
orders. She refused to be photographed unless her directions
were obeyed; and I must add that I think she was quite
right, knowing, as I do, the unfair (I might use stronger
language) treatment mediums are subjected to. Evidence
Fia. 2.
which would be deemed sufficient to prove anything else,"is
often utterly ignored where Spiritualism is concerned.
On reperusal, I find I have omitted to state that I carefully
examined every part of the cabinet while Miss Cook was being
searched by Mrs. and Miss Corner. Nothing could possibly
have been concealed there without my discovering it. I
should also mention, that soon after one of the photographs
had been taken, Katie pulled back the curtain, or rather rug,
which hangs in front, and requested us to look at her, when
she appeared to have lost all her body. She had a most
curious appearance; she seemed to be resting on nothing but
her neck, her head being close to the floor. Her white robe
was under her. , J. C. Luxmoore.
16, Gloucester-square, Hyde-park, W.
Mr. Luxmoore’s tying and sealing is efficient and
secure; as a nautical- man, who spends much of his
time annually in his yacht, he knows how to tie knots.
After tying Miss Cook’s wrists together with tape, he
seals the knots between the wrists, very close to the
skin, with his signet ring. On "Wednesday, May 7th,
the tape was sufficiently tight about the wrists to leave
marks all round.
Mr. Harrison makes the following statement about
the photographic operations:—
Many conditions had to be complied with to secure successful
results. A harmonious circle was necessary, that the medium
might be at ease, free from all care and anxiety, in order that
the manifestations should be given with the greater power. It
was necessary that the medium should not sit too frequently,
and have little to do at other times, so as to reserve power and
vital energy for the seances. In short, all the conditions
which Spiritualists know to favour good manifestations were
supplied as nearly as possible.
The cabinet being in one of the corners of a room in the base¬
ment of the house, the light is too weak, and not in the best
direction for photographic purposes. For the same reason
that spirits can always handle old musical instruments better
than new ones, and that the manifestations are usually stronger
after a medium has lived for some time in the house, it was not
desirable to make a new cabinet, the old one being well charged
with those imponderable emanations from the medium, of which
science at present knows nothing. It was, therefore, thought
desirable to use the old cabinet, and to do the photographing
by the magnesium light.
Magnesium^ ribbon will not ignite readily at a desired mo¬
ment, and sometimes goes out unexpectedly, so would be liable
to cause many failures. As both materialised spirit forms and
photographic plates, deteriorate rapidly after they are prepared
in perfection, it was necessary to have a light which should
not fail at a critical moment.
Accordingly magnesium powder mixed with sand was used,
on - the principle devised by Mr. Henry Larkins. A narrow
deal board A B, Fig. 3, three feet long, was nailed to the base¬
board D E, and firmly held in a vertical position by the sup¬
port H. A Bunsen’s burner, K N, to consume gas mixed with
common air, was fixed horizontally through
the vertical board, and-an india-rubber tube
D K, supplied the burner with common gas.
The end of the funnel W, was thus in the
gas-flame F. When some magnesium powder
and sand were poured into W they fell in a'great
stream, which caught fire at N, and burnt be¬
tween N.and B, in a great flame of dazzling
brilliancy. The larger the proportion of mag¬
nesium in the powder, the longer was the
flame, and the best results were obtained with
a flame averaging two feet in length, and
lasting for five or six seconds. Sometimes the
flame was so long as to scorch the base-board
at B, and it set fire to it there once or twice.
As might be expected, there has been more
success as yet in obtaining positives than
negatives, as a shorter exposure will do for
the former. The ordinary processes were
Figures. used—namely, a thirty-five grain nitrate of
silver bath, and proto-sulphate of iron development. Maw-
son’s collodion. A half-plate camera and lens were used, with a
stop rather less than an inch in diameter, between the front
and back combinations of the lens.
Materialised spirits always complain that the gaze of ob¬
servers pains them, and so does a strong light; this is one
204
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 15,1875.
reason why we hear so much of musical instruments playing
under instead of over tables, at seances, and why direct spirit
writing is rarely obtained under the direct gaze of observers.
Consequently, after Katie had “ posed ” herself by ordinary
light, she insisted that all the observers should turn their eyes
from her during the few seconds the magnesium was burning.
The results have, of course, been obtained at the cost
of much expenditure in the shape of money, time, and
labour, towards one or the other of which items Mr.
Charles Blackburn, of Manchester, Mr. Luxmoore, Mr.
Harrison, and, indeed, all the members of the circle
contributed their part. Nor should it be forgotten how
much of the success is due to the patience of the medium,
Miss Cook, and the hard work of the spirit Katie. The
scene was an interesting one; the tables were covered
with bottles and pieces of apparatus; the observers were
scattered about the room wherever they could find
seats, and Mr. Tapp, who had charge of the magnesium
illuminating apparatus, stood near the ceiling, ready to
flood the room with light at the word of command.
Last, but not least, a spirit robed in white stood near
the curtains, and, after enduring the glare of the
magnesium light for a few seconds, trembled, and
slowly retired; she appeared to have passed through
the ordeal at the expenditure of considerable exertion.
The large engraving was cut by Mr. John Swain,
and the drawing from the photograph was made upon
the wood by Mr. Prederick Winter.
The tapes and seals used for the tests mentioned in
this article, were found intact and perfect at the close
of each sitting. They are now in the possession of Mr.
Tapp. •
De. Duttx, the medium, who accompanied Mr. Peebles to
Australia and New Zealand, has been given cabinet seances
not unlike those of the Davenports, in the two colonies.
Man and the Ape.—Recently, the Liverpool Daily
Albion made some not very complimentary remarks about
Mr. A. R. Wallace, which drew forth a letter in reply from
Mr. William Hitchman, M.D., who, in the course of his
remarks, said,—‘ ‘ When you have fairly studied the numerous
beautiful and ably-written works of Mr. Wallace, you may
not improbably agree with myself and others that, to a
certain extent, this great naturalist anticipated, the phi¬
losophy of Darwin. This is no mere idle conjecture. I was
present at Burlington House from time to time, and duly
cognisant of the contents of each learned paper, as they were
originally presented for discussion by their immortal authors.
As to psychic force, or modern Spiritualism, it is a question
not to be settled at all by leading articles, but by positive
experimental testimony. It is believed in by men of emi¬
nence, whose evidence is above suspicion and beyond dispute,
both morally and intellectually, at home and abroad. That
our ancestors, moreover, were barbarians, historic and un-
historic facts prove. If you ask from what monkey did man
come, since there are two or three hundred kinds of such
interesting animals, permit me to tell you that the biggest
monkey is the biggest brute—his name T. Gorilla—in the
history of this earth and animated nature, scientifically. There
are, besides, monkeys with tails, and monkeys, resembling
bipeds, without tails; but, singularly enough, externally and
internally, those creations or evolutions which have no tails
are most like peers, peasants, princes, and paupers of A.D.
1873, and the stvpidest of their race. Withal, long anterior
to either Grecian or Jewish nationality, there existed in
Bactrian Asia, not far from the very spot pointed out both
by Aryan and Semitic tradition as the cradle of humanity, a
civilised people, with ancestors like animals (if we credit
geological, anatomical, psychical, and other scientific teach-
ing), yet speaking a true inflectional language (Sanskrit),
containing the most sublime and eloquent sentiments, founded
on an intelligent observation and personal experience of spi¬
ritual and material phenomena, whose ideas of God and
immortality, reverence of soul, lofty tone of mind, wealth of
metaphor, and beauty of aspiration, have never been exceeded
in the annals of human wisdom,”
MORS JANUA VITAE.
Silent, all motionless, beautiful,
Lay in death, Annie the firstling.
Sweeter far than life e’er showed her
Sweetly she lay, all cold yet angel-like,
As if the clay were conscious
That its substance had evolved a flower.
In memories sweet, mourned the father,
With fondest love, wept the mother.
Annie their love-child gone, on before,
Gone to the land of the free.
Longed they and hoped with their weeping,
Not merely for meeting with,
But more for the greeting of.
The child in the land of the free.
Oft in slumbers, broken with dreams,
Came the child’s visits,
Calling to memory old byegone scenes,
Showing the earth-child’s play,
Alluring the parents to hopes of the brightest
And telling through faith
Of the kingdom of souls,
Of the land where love’s memories
Brighten and fade not with years.
So for a lifetime hoped they and dreamed
In sleeping dreamt, in waking felt
Their child lived still.
Till in the after life,
Till in the land of souls,
Met they there, greeted there
Annie their firstling,
Beautiful and as loving
As the child of their fancy-dreams.
When I think of the vision,
Of the three united souls
In the kingdom of the free,
Then weep I for gladness,
And I know tha't, when united
To the hearts I’ve loved and lost,
We shall wander evermore,
In the kingdom of the souls,
As will the happy three
Together.
A.L. Breast.
(ftHTOspontinue.
[Oreat freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinion
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
SEIBITUALISM AND CHRISTIANITY.
Sir,—At page 188 of the Spiritualist, I find a statement
that T. L. Harris’s “earlier works inculcate this doctrine [i.e.,
Davis’s progression doctrine], and deny the reality of eternal
punishment.” Though I have studied, for some years, almost
everything Harris has ever written, and read the Arcana of
Christianity ten times, I cannot see that there is any real
discrepancy between his earlier and later productions, the
earliest of his works which I have read being The Epic of the
Starry Heavens. The doctrine that men after death, irre¬
spective of their moral character while in the body, are
rapidly advanced in wisdom and goodness, he does indeed
reject (A, Chr. I. 25) ; but I know of no place where he
asserts that future punishment is, in the absolute sense of the
word, eternal. I understood him to teach in all his works
that all will be eventually brought to God, only in his earlier
poems he simply states the fact, whilst in the Arcana he
describes the intermediate stages of the process. This process
is described in A. Chr. I. 676-9, 716-19, as I understand
him, I believe that his teaching, and his alone, satisfac¬
torily solves the problem of the future destination of the
wicked, being, at the same time, in strict accordance with
the Bible. All men at death pass into the spirit-world ; those
in whom there is even one germ of real good gradually put
off their evils by vastation, and become angels, the difficulty
and painfulness of this process depending on the amount of
evil remaining in them ; those who have wilfully destroyed all
good in themselves, sink into the hells where they remain till
they pass through the crisis called the second death, which
consists in their ceasing to exist as conscious beings, after
which they will be reconstituted, reincarnated, and having
again lived an earthly life, attain to angelhood. Here we
find reconciled the three Scripture doctrines—at first sight
contradictory—of Universal Restoration, Death of the Wicked,
and Eternal (more literally, Age-lasting) Punishment.
This question I discussed in detail in the Intellectual
Repository for December, 1871, in answer to an attack on
May 15, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
205
Harris by a Swedenborgian, to which paper I will—not to
occupy too much of your space—refer your readers. I should,
perhaps, state that Harris does not hold the doctrine of Re¬
incarnation held by Kardec and others.
It may, perhaps, interest some of your readers to know
that from news which I have recently received from America,
Harris’s community there is progressing most favourably.
May I also take this opportunity to request his readers not
to be deceived by the false reports which his enemies indus¬
triously circulate respecting himself and the community.
Some of the charges which were completely answered long
ago, are now being brought up again ; but from my acquaint¬
ance with several of the Brotherhood of the New Life and
their friends, I am able to state that I know that the rumours
are false.
The teachings given through Harris in the Arcana of
Christianity are the most glorious, the most heavenly, and
the most comforting, yet awe-inspiring, of any I have met
with in universal literature, and I can only recommend every
Spiritualist to read and re-read them.
4, Highbury New Park, N. E. W. Bereidge, M.D.
May 2nd.
THE SEXES.
Sir,—I cannot agree with Mr. White that “the feminine
mind is designed for the worship of the masculine mind,” un¬
less he will give up that other position of his, that there is
“ precisely the same difference between men and women spiri¬
tually and mentally that there is between them physically.’’
If he will admit that a feminine mind may be housed in a
masculine body, and, on the other hand, that a masculine
mind may exist in a feminine body, then we might come to
some terms; for then he would admit with me that the
nature of an intellect is not to be judged by the mere physical
framework in which it may chance to be lodged,—the mean¬
ing I wished to convey by using the expression that mind is of
no sex.
However, I am not very sanguine in expecting that Mr.
White will go so far as this. There are some other words in
his letter which go to show how he has built up his theory.
“ Knowledge,” says he, “has to be humanised ere women can
perceive or enjoy it.” So, in Mr. White’s opinion, women are
not capable of humanising their own experiences or discoveries,
—a new and strange doctrine which is opposed to the theories
of all previous philosophy. Women have hitherto been
thought the chief humanisers in the world. “ But,” says Mr.
White, “ paternity is not amongst their functions.” Follow¬
ing Mr. White into his physical and fundamental argument,
let me ask him what authority he has for saying that paternity
is not amongst the functions of women ? Mr. White will not
deny that almost, if not quite as many children, derive the
predominant part of their character from their mother’s quali¬
ties as from those of their father. Admitting this, perhaps he
will also allow that paternity, taking that to be the strongest
creative influence^ may be among the functions of women ;
which, being granted, the whole of my argument must follow.
The fact that, hitherto, the striking instances of women’s
originality have been few, is, certainly, a difficulty in my
way; but home and not public life (though Elizabeth and
Victoria are to be reckoned amongst the highest rank of
rulers) has hitherto been their chief scene of action ; and the
originality which exhibits itself in domestic arrangements
can gain but scanty public recognition. It was not worthy
of Mr. White to quote from the Nero Yorh Nation a sneer as
ill-natured as it is untrue. But if I can bring one public
example of woman’s originality forward, it is as good as a
dozen for breaking down Mr. White’s assumption. I must
still contend that “George Eliot” is the most skilful and
original novelist of our day; and that, far from being a mere
farrago of the Positive philosophy, her works exhibit a clearer
insight into human character than those of any other writer.
I maintain that she has the fullest right to the name of
“ genius,”—a name which has been strenuously denied to
women. Nor do I think that Mrs. Barrett-Browning has any
less claim to that title. What would Mr. White think if I
ventured to classify geniuses as of no sex whatever, or as of a
sex peculiar to themselves ? Shakespeare, Beethoven, and
Raphael have left no progeny behind them but their immortal
works. It is not as men but as genii that we reverence them;
it is not as men that they have gained their immortality of
fame, but as combining within themselves, in the highest
degree, the peculiar strength of man with the peculiar sweet¬
ness of woman. A similar combination of qualities exists in
the two women I have named, as in many others of their sex,
who are feeble examples (in Mr. White’s sense) of that femi¬
nine mind which is designed to worship the masculine mind.
If Mr, White, instead of resting content with the sym¬
metrical proportions of Swedenborg’s theory, will take the
trouble of reflecting upon the facts which present themselves
amongst the ladies of his acquaintance, he will assuredly dis¬
cover that there is very little to choose between the weak¬
nesses of the masculine and those of the feminine mind, as
there is but little between their respective strengths. A man
may be masculine, and yet have a feebler mind than many a
woman, as a woman may be feminine and yet have a more
powerful and searching mind than many a man. There is no
cast-iron rule which can be applied to the mind of humanity
so as to divide it into two sexes coincident with physical
sexual distinctions. Unless Mr. White can prove the con¬
trary, both Swedenborg and he must yield to the force of
“ chiels that winna ding.” GEORGE Fraser.
3, Middleton-road, Camden-road, N.
MESSRS. MASKELYNE AND COOKE’S PERFORMANCES.
Sir,—On the 3rd inst. I witnessed the performance at St.
James’s Hall, having previously read Messrs. Coleman and
Tredwen’s letters, and your remarks, in the last number of
the Spiritualist. I saw the Davenport cabinet performance.
I was on the stage and minutely examined the cabinet. I saw
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke tied in masterly style. They
did everything that I have seen the Davenports do, and more ;
for the hands which at one time hung placidly from the little
windows in the doors, were substantial, remained so7 for a
minute or two, endured handling by one of the committee,
and, in fact, were to all appearances the hands of Mr.
Maskelyne. Yet he had scarcely withdrawn them when the
doors were thrown open, and he was found sitting, bound
hand and foot, to his seat, and to the opposite one, with thirty
or forty knots, carefully sealed with the signets of the com¬
mittee. No “moveable mirror” will account for this per¬
formance, which neither you, sir, nor Mr. Tredwen appear to
have seen. Thecabinethad been elaborately examined by myself
and half-a-dozen or more of the audience. Measuring it care¬
fully from top to bottom, and from back to front, I will guaran¬
tee that there was not above half-an-inch to spare anywhere.
The tilt of the shelf was not so much as Mr. Tredwen makes it.
The top of the shelf, and the top of the cabinet, were both
distinctly visible from the gallery, which was full of people
up to within fifteen yards, more or less, of the stage. The
two performers (?) stepped into the cabinet in full sight of all
the audience ; they were bound, and then tied to their seats
by the committee, who placed the bells, &c., where they
pleased, far out of the reach of the performers, unless they
had been perfectly free. The bells and tambourine began
instantly to jingle, and in a few minutes the bells were thrown
out. The doors being then suddenly opened, the performers were
found tied as before, the committee certifyingthat the knots, &c.
were exactly as they had left them. This was done several
times. Then the performers released themselves (?) in about
two or three minutes—then tied themselves (?) up again in a
manner which the committee certified to be more effectual
than their own, and so complete, that it would take them (the
committee) half an hour to undo. The committee then sealed
the knots with their signets. Then came the showing of hands
(as already described); the flour test ; the coat trick ; the
untying themselves (?) in less than three minutes. Two of
the audience, (one at a time), were shut in with Maskelyne,
and certified that he did not move, though the bells and
tambourine were jingled as before, the bells thrown out, and
the tambourine in one case placed on the head, in the other
wedged between the arms of the certifier.
If this be conjuring, I would say to you, Sir, “ Othello’s
occupation’s gone,” Miss Florence Cook (whose manifestations
I have witnessed with much interest), nowhere, and Spiritualism
itself, henceforth at a discount. Algernon Joy.
17, Parliament-street, Westminster, S.W.
[Witnesses have told us the performers do the essential part of the tying
themselves.—Ed.
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS.
Sir,—In your review of my book, “ Where are the Dead;
or, Spiritualism Explained,’’ you make allusion to an adver¬
tisement inserted by me for a genuine spirit photograph, and
ask how it is that I have got no response. < Your question,
coupled with the doubts you throw upon the genuineness of
some of the spirit photographs, might lead some people to
suppose that all spirit photographs were shams.] So far as any
206
THE SPIRITUALIST.
inference can be drawn from my advertisement, I think such
conclusions are scarcely warranted by the facts, because I
distinctly stated that' L wished to publish the name and
address of the sitter, and a copy of a photograph that had
been identified. It is needless to remind you that there may
be many persons possessing genuine spirit photographs, who
would not care to have their names and addresses advertised
over the length and breadth of the land for ignorant critics to
sneer at.
As a matter of fact, I have received a copy of a spirit
photograph from Mr. Henry Smith, of No. 13, Lincoln Street,
^Leicester, Licentiate in Dentistry Of the Eoyal College of
Surgeons, who informs me (and permits me to publish the
fact) that he went to Mr. Hudson, of 177, Holloway Road,
London, photographer, as a perfect stranger, in the hope of
obtaining a spirit photograph of his late wife, and was sur¬
prised-to find upon the plate a correct likeness of hialate
father, which has been identified by all his relatives and
friends, and that, too, when it was merely mixed with a
number of other photographs, and no special allusion made to
it. Mr. Smith adds, “ I have no doubt at all of the truth of
the foregoing. Note the great fact. I was a stranger to Mr.
Hudson, and went in hopes of having the picture of my dear
wife; I did not get what I asked for, but another portrait
which I did not think of.”
Whatever suspicious and inexplicable appearances there
may be upon some of Mr. Hudson’s spirit photographs, one
thing is certain, that facts like the foregoing and the letters
quoted by me in my book, from Mr. M. Jones, of Lombard
House, Bexley Heath, Kent, and from Mr, William Howitt,
both identifying spirit photographs obtained by Mr. Hudson,
sufficiently prove spirit photography to be an undoubted fact.
The Author 01? “Where are the Dead.”
Manchester, May 10, 1873.
[Spirit photography is an undoubted fact, also that genuine spirit photo¬
graphs have been taken at Holloway, also that shams were at one time
turned out there and mixed with real ones, bringing disgrace upon a great
truth, and upon the incompetent newspaper editors who misled the public
about the spurious pictures. When some of the most experienced Spirit¬
ualists and photographers spent time and money for weeks in investigating
the matter thoroughly, and obtained dummy pictures not true copies of any
negative taken in any camera, and after the photographer himself pub¬
lished that he would not guarantee his prints to be genuine, two or three
editors, who to this day have never seen many of the spurious photographs,
came forward, and by articles or letters (most of them anonymous, and a
few written apparently by friends of persons implicated), guaranteed the
pictures to be all right. Highly complimentary this to those who had done
all the hard work, purely for the benefit of Spiritualism, when people totally
ignorant of photography, and who had paid only a casual visit or two to
the studio while the earlier work was going on, came forward to upset
photographed physical facts, by ideas evolved from the depths of their own
consciousness. The photographer has suffered for his misdeeds, and as he
possesses real medial powers, the best thing he can now do is to ally him¬
self with some other photographer who is known and trusted by Spiritual¬
ists, whose constant supervision will be a guarantee to the public.—Ed.]
SPIRIT PACES.
Sir,—While referring yesterday to Bartolocci’s “ Biblio¬
theca magna Rabbinical the following sentence caught my
eye at p. 348 of Part I :—
tl Angeli hominum custodes habent faciem similem homini-
bus quos custodiunt”
Or, literally translated :—
“ Guardian angels of men have a face like unto the man
whom they guard.”
This is taken from the “ Zohar,” page 163 B. of the Mantua
edition.
Would Mr. T. Herbert Noyes, or some other of your corres¬
pondents familiar with the literature of the Hebrews, kindly
refer to the passage, and tell your readers a little more of the
views of the Cabbalists on this subject?
Leamington, 11th April, 1873. M.D,
SAPIA PADALINO’S CASE.
Sir,—I think I owe an acknowledgement for the several
suggestions contained in your periodical respecting the cure
of the medium Sapia Padalino, whose case you have made
known to your readers. The great difficulty in the way of
helping this unfortunate medium, is to induce her to submit
to any human control. So great is her aversion to give way
to any advice, that one must come to the conclusion that, in
thus acting, she is prompted by her relentless invisible
tormentors. No efforts of her friends have succeeded in
establishing any kind of order in her conduct of life.
Although endowed with, great sharpness and clearness of
mind, and assisted by the kindest teachers, she has obstinately
refused to improve in her knowledge of letters, preferring to
May 15, 1873.
run about the streets all the day long, and sometimes during
the night. She is so contradictory, that I truly believe if
anybody were to suggest to her the propriety of eating onions
and burning incense, she would provide herself with leek and
myrrh, then burn the former and swallow the latter. Indeed,
she herself says, that the spirits tell her they will take care
she shall only do their biddings. All has been thought of to
improve her state, but of late she has shown such a stubborn
spirit of opposition, that her many sympathisers here have
come to the conclusion to leave her entirely to her own
devices, and see what time and experience will do for her.
Had we a Dr. Newton here, or any healing medium of
ascertained powers, we would follow the suggestion of your
correspondent “ X.but we are not blessed with those gifts
in Naples yet. G. Damiahi.
Naples, May 2nd, 1872.
[In driving away the lower spirits from any medium, their consent is
never given; a certain amount of resistance to them must be exerted, and
the sudden change in the actions and expressions of a medium when
“ devils have been cast out,” is a reward to the mesmerist who drives them
off.—Ed.]  
Dr. George Sextoh will deliver a discourse on Spi¬
ritualism in the Cavendish-rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-
street, on Sunday next.
England’s Patron Saint.—One’s opinion as to whether
St. George deserves the title of saint must depend entirely on
the history consulted for an account of his life and death.
Butler in his “ Lives of the Saints,” gives our patron a
wonderfully good character. According to the Bishop, St.
George was a native of Cappadocia, and at one time a great
favourite with the reigning Emperor, and appointed by him
tribune. On an edict of the Emperor being promulgated
against the Christians, St. George threw up his appointment,
and after many tortures suffered death in defence of his faith.
Turning to the pages of Gibhon the “ Great Martyr,” as he is
denominated by the Greek Church, is pictured as just as bad
a character as Butler makes him good. Born in a fuller’s shop,
he accumulated by every system of robbery and wrong a large
fortune, but being found peculating in regard to an army con¬
tract for bacon, he was compelled to fly in order to escape the
hand of justice, taking with him, nevertheless, the,'proceeds of
his iniquity. At Alexandria he took up the cause of the
Aryans against Athanasius, and on the death of this Saint,
whose name is given to the disputed creed, he was elected in
his place. In a very short time, however, his rapacity and
immoralities caused an insurrection, in which he was slain.
Such is Gibbon’s statement. Butler says the Dragon re¬
presents Paganism, Gibbon the doctrine of Athanasius. It
was not until the time of the Crusades that St. George be¬
came attached to England, but he then, according to tradi¬
tion, twice appeared and prophesied victory to our troops.—
The Echo.
Eoyal Institution.—Last Thursday, in the course of a
lecture at the Royal Institution to a large number of listeners,
among whom was Mr. Serjeant Cox, Professor Tyndall said :
—“ lb is quite true, as Helmholtz says, that Young was in
advance of his age ; but something is to be added which illus¬
trates the responsibility of our public writers. For twenty
years this man of genius was quenched—hidden from the
appreciative- intellect of his countrymen—deemed, in fact, a
dreamer, through the vigorous sarcasm of a writer who had
then possessiqn of the public ear, and who in the Edinburgh
Review poured ridicule upon Young and his speculations. To
the celebrated Frenchmen Fresnel and Arago he was first in¬
debted for the restitution of his rights, for they, especially
Fresnel, re-made independently, as Helmholtz says, and vastly
extended his discoveries. To the students of his works Young
has long since appeared in his true light, but these twenty
blank years pushed him from the public mind, which became
in turn filled with the fame of Young’s colleague at the Royal
Institution, Davy, and afterwards with the fame of Faraday.
Carlyle refers to a remark of Novalis, that a man’s self-trust is
enormously increased the moment he finds that others believe
in him. If the opposite remark be true—if it be a fact that
public disbelief weakens a man’s force, there is no calculating
the amount of damage these twenty years of neglect may
have done to Young’s productiveness' as an investigator. It
remains to be stated that his assailant was Mr. Henry
Brougham, afterwards Lord Chancellor of England.” The
foregoing remarks about the ridiculing of new truths, in
advance of the age, apply admirably to an article against
Spiritualism in a book entitled Fragments of Science for
Unscientific People, written by Professor Tyndall.
May 15, 1873.-
THE SPIRITUALIST.
207
The Rev. J. Murray Spear is now in Philadelphia.
The Hon. R. Dale Owen is in Boston. His daughter
purposes visiting England soon.
The Religio-Philosophicdl Journal, of Chicago, has
published a notice of the great literary labours in Europe of
M. Alexandre Aksakof, of St. Petersburgh, in connection with
the cause of Spiritualism.
Me. Enmobe Jones, one of the oldest and most faithful
workers in the cause of Spiritualism in London, has been
lying very dangerously ill for some weeks. According to the
latest information which has reached us from Enmore-park
he was slightly better, and able to recognise his relatives.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmerising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and traveUing
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N.W
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. -Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings,
6s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 6s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, RECEIVES VISITORS daily (Sundays excepted), from
Twelve till Six o’Clock, at her Residence, 17, Castle-street, Wells-street,
Oxford-street. Terms, Five Shillings each Visitor. Private Parties also
attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea and travelling expenses.
FOR SALE.—The first SIX YOLUMES of the Spiritual
Magazine, complete with the exception of one number. Offers to be
addressed to “ G. B.,” 12, Forest-road, Dalston, E.
TO BIBLE COLLECTORS. —FOR SALE.—BLACK
LETTER BREECHES BIBLE (Geneva edition), 1610. Condition,
PERFECT. Size, 11J ins. by 8 ins., by ins. Annotated throughout, with
appendices of the Apocrypha, New Testament, and the Psalms collected
into English metre, and set to music. Tenders are invited. Address
“ Antiquarian,” 12, High-street, Bow, London, E.
Apartments.—bed-room and use of parlours,
with piano. Extra small room, if required. Suitable for lady or
gentleman interested in Spiritualism. Terms very moderate; society chief
object. Inquire at 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
SELECTED BY HER MAJESTY’S COMMISSIONER FOR THE
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS..
F
PHOTOGRAPHS.
Prices from 6s. per Dozen.
MR. A. L. HENDERSON,
OF 49, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON BRIDGE,
AND OF 2, AMERSHAM ROAD, NEW CROSS, S.E.
Photographer on Enamel to the Queen.
EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
"V4'Pfito'fwi 9
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President—The Right Honourable the Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer—Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171, Aldersgate-street, E.C.
Honorary Secretary—Semes Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary—Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers—The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —(To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised, in One Volume Demy 8vo„
pp.780, price 7s. 6d.
E MAN DEL SWEDENBORG: HIS LIFE AND
WRITINGS. By WILLIAM WHITE. Wherein the History, the
Doctrines, and the other-world Experiences of the great Swede are concisely
and faithfully set forth; also the singular Origin and Condition of the
Swedenborgian Sect. The Volume is illustrated with Four Steel Engravings,
by Mr. 0. H. Jeens—I. Jesper Svedberg, Bishop of Skara. II. Emanuel
Swedenborg, aged 46. III. Swedenborg’s House, Stockholm. IV. Sweden¬
borg, aged 80.
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
BE VERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of The Spiritualist.
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
G. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOB, &c.,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, FOUNDLING-, W.O.,
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may honour him with
their patronage, they can be supplied with clothes cut in the most
fashionable manner, good materials, and sound workmanship, at very
moderate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many years in the
well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co., 66, St. James’s Street. p
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Trousers, from   0 13 6 1 Black Suit, from  3 0 0
Vests .'.   0 7 0 | Unrivalled Black Dob .110
Tweed Suit ...' ...  £2 10s. Od.
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
-Oka 000 fteady to.be ADVANCED by the TEM-
PERANCE permanent land and building
-£?.]
PERANCE PERMANENT LAND AND BUILDING
SOCIETY on Freehold and Leasehold Property, for any period of years
not exceeding fifteen, the Mortgage being redeemable by equal Monthly
Instalments. Interest (in addition to a small premium) 6 per cent, on the
balance each year.
Apply to HENRY J. PHILLIPS, Secretary.
Offices: 4, Ludgate Hill, London, E.C.
Note.—More than One Million and a Half Pounds Sterling have been
advanced upon House Property alone.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
LIST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially meet
EXPENSES of the FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION of
Spiritualist —
Charles Blackburn, Esq 
“ A Friend at a Distance ”
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
“A Friend.”... ...   ...   
M. Alexandre Aksakof (St. Petersburg)
W- Tebb, Esq. ...    
Enmore Jones, Esq 
C. F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S. '   ...
Mrs. E. M. Cox ...'    
“ Truthseeker ” (Liverpool)  
Sir Charles Isham, Bart  ...
Thomas Grant, Esq  
J. O. Luxmoore, Esq  ...
Justice   
F. S. A 
Friends at Brixton:—
Miss Ponder  ... .,
Miss E. Ponder  
Mrs. Rudd  
“Longfellow ”  
Mr. Withall ...   
Mr. E. Bird   
Mr. George Dawson  
Mr. Dawson Rogers ... ... ..
Mr. Rogers   :..
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald ... .,
Mrs. Gunyon...  
“Bitterness’   ... .:.
“A Friend,” Temple 
N. F. Daw, Esq  ... •
Richard Beamish, Esq., F.R.S.
James Wason, Esq. ...  
Algernon Joy, Esq     2 10
The Countess of Caithness         2 2
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston      2 2
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esq .'. ... 2 2.
John Beattie, Esq. ...      2 0
‘“A Friend,’’Manchester     1 1
Benjamin Cbleman, Esq    1 1
E. Musgrave, Esq.   ...    1 1
“V.”  ... 1 1
A Clergyman of the Church of England   1 1
B. W. Pycock, Esq. ... ...     1 1
Arthur Maltby, Esq. ...    ... 1 1
G. Thomson, Esq.,M.D  ...-   ?.. ... 1 0
Mrs. Robert Campbell    ... ... 1 0
Oscar von Hoffmann (Leipzig) ...   1 0
“AFriend,” F.R.S    1 0
Miss Kislingbury      1 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory  ... 1 0
Miss J. H. Douglas          1 0
“AFriend”    ... ... ... ... ... 1 0
John E. Purdon, Esq,, M.B.      1 0
Mrs. Hennings j  !   .1.0
J. Craig, Esq     0 10
G. D. (Hackney), Balance in excess of publishing account    0 8
Subscriptions in aid of this object maybe remitted to N. Fabyan Daw,
Esq., treasurer, Portman.chambers, Portman-square, W.; Benjamin
Coleman, Esq.,Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood; or to Enmore Jones, Esq.,
Enmore-park, South Norwood, S.E.
tne
‘Thh
s. d.
0 0
208
THE SPIRITUALIST. May 15, T873.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An Experimental trial at home, among'family friends and relatives,
often gives the most satisfactory evidence of the reality of spiritual
phenomena, and this is the best way for enquirers to begin. At
the same time, as no fully developed medium is present among
those who have never obtained manifestations before, possibly there
may be no results. Nevertheless, it is a very common thing for
striking manifestations to be obtained in this way at the first sit¬
ting of a family circle; perhaps for every successful new circle
thus started without a medium, there are three or four failures, but
no accurate statistics on this point have yet been collected.
Consequently, to save time, investigators should do as the Dia¬
lectical Society did, form several new circles, with no Spiritualist
or professional medium present, and at one or other of them re¬
sults will probably be obtained. When once manifestations have
been obtained they will gradually increase in power and reliability
at successive sittings. The following is a good plan of action:—
T. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall he no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top.surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper‘on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion,. let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “ Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is" usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.-
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are born of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
SPIBITUAIISM deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.B., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.Q-.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. O. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.O.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. ’J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a -bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without 'being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of socia
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
In another part of the report the same committee stated:—
“After a committee of eleven persons had been sitting round a dining
table for forty minutes, and various motions and sounds had occurred, the
chairs- were turned with their hacks to the table, at about nine inches from
it. All present then knelt upon their chairs, placing their arms upon the
backs of the chairs. In this position, the feet were of course turned away
from the table, and by no possibility could be placed under it or touch the
floor. The hands were extended over the table at about four inches from
the surface.
“ In this position, contact with any part of the table was physically im¬
possible.
“ In less than a minute the table, untouched, moved four times ; at first
about five inches to one side, then about twelve inches to the opposite side,
then about four inches, and then about six inches.
“ The hands were next placed on the backs of the chairs and about a foot
from the table. In this position, the table again moved four times, over
spaces varying from four to six inches. Then all the chairs were removed
twelve inches from the table. All knelt as before. Each person folded his
hands behind his back, his body being about eighteen inches from the
table, and having the back of the chair between himself and the table. In
this position the table again moved four times, in like manner as before
In the course of this conclusive experiment, and in less than half an hour,
the table moved, without contact or possibility of contact with any person
present, twelve times, the movements being in different directions, [and
some according to the request of different persons present.
“The table was then carefully examined, turned upside down, and taken
to pieces, but nothing was discovered. The experiment was conducted
throughout in the full light of gas above the table.
“Altogether your committee have witnessed upwards of fifty similar
motions without contact on eight different evenings, in the houses of
different members of your committee, and with the application of the most
careful tests their collective intelligence could devise.”
TO INEBRIATES AND THEIR FRIENDS.
Just published, limp, Is. 6d.; cloth 2s.,
ON INEBRIETY, Continuous and Periodical, considered
as the Result of Physical Disease, and distinct from the Vice of
Intemperance: its Causes, Nature, Treatment, and Cure, showing the
curability of the worst cases of Intemperance. By Sylvantjs Harms, M.D.
(Pennsylvania).
HAMMOND and CO., 20, Catherine-street, Strand; or post free from the
Author, 14, Serle-street, Lincoln’s-inn, W.C.
Foolscap 8vo., cloth. Published at 3s., now offered at 2s.; post free, 2s. 3d.
THE MENTAL CURE: illustrating the Influence of
the Mind on the Body both in Health and Disease, and the Psycho¬
logical Method of Treatment, by Rev. W. F. Evans, author of “The
Celestial Dawn,” “ The Happy Islands,” “ The New Age and its Messen¬
ger,” &c., &c., &c.
Glasgow: James M’Geachy, 89, Union-street.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
    LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH. 
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
9 Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
N ewcastle-on- Tyne.
EBIRD, Builder, House-decorator, Plumber, and
• Gasfltter, desires to inform his Friends and Employers that he
has taken NEW PREMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station. Estimates given for every description of
work in the above branches.
A CARD, r ,
MISS ANNA BLACKWELL begs to offer a copy of
Spiritualism and Spiritism to enquirers who will call for it at Mr.
Burns’s, 16, Southampton-row, Holborn, W.O., or send a half-penny stamp
for postage. ' !■ "
Paris, March 10, 1873.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beverid&e & Fraser, at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
