AND JOURNAL
OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[EEGISTEBED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 124.—(Vol. VI.—No. 2.) LONDON: JANUARY 8, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
Contents.
Spirit Teachiags. No. XXV.        
The Mediumship of the Eddy Brothers:—Colonel H. S. Olcott’s De¬
scription of the Manifestations—Appearance of Arab, Ihdian, and
other Spirits—Curious Dark Circle Manifestations—The Seance
Room Changed—Spirit Drapery Materialised in the Light—Ma¬
terialisation of Men, Women, and Children—General Conclusions
by Colonel Olcott—Descriptions of the Manifestations from other
Sources      ...   
Mr. Morse’s American Experiences  ...   
The Philadelphia “ Katie King” ... ... ...   
An Interesting Materialisation Seance. By W. H. Harrison  
Spiritualism in Newcastle ...    
Human Levitation:—Forty Levitated Persons Canonised or Beatified
Correspondence:—A Public Building for Spiritual Meetings 
Messrs. Bastian and Taylor     
Paragraphs:—Spiritualistic Soirees — The National Association
Spiritualists . ... ... ...   ... ...
Answers to Correspondents   A 
RAILWAY ACCIDENT MUTUAL ASSURANCE
COMPANY, LIMITED.
(Incorporated under Act of Parliament, 25 26 Viet., cap. 89 )
42, POULTRY (CORNER OF OLD JEWRY), LONDON.
SIMPLE FORM OF ASSURANCE.
Single premium covering the whole life, but payable in two instalments
if preferred.
Cost of assurance reduced by two-thirds.
Profits divided amongst the members.
Trustees.—James Abbiss, Esq., Andrew Johnston, Esq., K. Biddulph
Martin, Esq., Sir John Murray. Bart., James White, Esq.
Directors.—Sir John Murray, Bart. (Chairman), Michael Angelo, Esq.,
John Brown, Esq., C. N. C. Hutton, Esq., J.P., Arthur lago, Esq., H. E.
Knight, Esq, Alderman, M. E. Marsden, Es t R B Martin, Esq., M.A.,
F.S.S., Captain W. S. M. Rayner, H. Osborne White, Esq., Major J. C.
Wray.
Consulting Actuary.—Peter Gray, Esq., F.R.A.S., Hon. Fellow Institute of
Medical Officer.—Thos. Boor Crosby, M.D., F.R.C.S., England.
Bankers.—Messrs. Martin and Co., 68, Lombard-street.
Solicitors.—Messrs. Carr, Bannister, Davidson and Morriss.
Auditors.—Robert Lucas Nash, Esq., H. W. S. Whiffin, Esq. (Messrs.
Lovelock and Whiffin).
Managing Director.—Mr. William Burr, F.R.S. *
CLASS.
‘ A. B ” Insuring a sum
if Killed, and Allow¬
ance Weekly if in¬
jured.
“ A.’’ Death only.
“ B.” Weekly Allow¬
ance only.
aw
<!
Weekly Allow¬
ance for
Total
Disable¬
ment.
£
1000
500
250
100
1000
500
£ s.d.
6 0 0
3 0 0
1 10 0
10 0
6 0 0
3 0 0
Partial
Disable;
ment/
£ s. d.
1 10 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
1 10 0
0 18 0
PREMIUMS.
Single
Paymnt
£ s. d.
3 0 0
1 14 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
110
0 11 6
2 \2 0
13 0
By Two Instals.
Present
Paymt
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
Paymt
within
Two Yrs
£ s. d.
1 12 0
0 18 0
0 10 0
0 6 0
0 11 6
0 6 6
12 6 12 6
0 12 6 0 12 6
• Forms, Prospectuses, and further particulars on application to
MR. THOMAS BLYTON,
 ‘ 12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, London, E.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la CatMdrale, Libge,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
X> EVUE SPIRITS, Journal d’etudes psychologiques?
AA) fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by, the Snciete Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
T7\ PARKES, SPIRITUALIST PHOTOGRAPHER.
JJ • Sittings d la seance by appointment, Mondays, Wednesdays, and
Fridays. The magnesium light used in dull weather or when required.
Fee, one guinea per sitting. Address, 6, Gaynes Park Terrace, Grove-road,
Bow, E.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association of Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
Persons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with the Assistant
Secretary, Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London,
N.W., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rules , may be had upon
application.
INSPIRATIONAL DISCOURSES,
BY MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN, ON SUNDAY EVENINGS.
There will be 36 Lectures, delivered on Sunday Evenings, commencing
October 25th, and ending in June next, divided into courses of
Twelve Lectures,
AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS,
71, Mortimer-Street, Regent-street, London. Doors open at 6.30;
Commence at 7 p.m.
Committee. .
A lexander Calder, Esq., The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.—Chairman.
N. Fabyan Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.; Dr.
Gully, Bedford-bill, Balham, S.W.: Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square,
Pimlico, S.W.; Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands Wimbledon Common,
S.W.; Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W.; G. N. Strawbridge,
Esq., and Mrs. Strawbridge, Annandale, Upper Norwood, S.E,
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s Inn-square, W.C.
(Hon. Secretary and Treasurer.)
A subscriber of £5 will be entitled for the whole series to a reserved
seat for himself and friend.
Tickets to admit one person for a course of 12 lectures only, will be
issued at 24s., and 12s. each.
There will be a limited number of 6d. seats.
Tickets to be obtained of the Treasurer, Mr. Webster Glynes, 4, Gray’s-
inn-square, on application enclosing post office order.
Single Tickets sold at the doors.
Persons desirous of obtaining seats fire requested to come early.
The hymns used in the service will be taken from the “ Spiritual Lyre,”
sold at the doors.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, oh Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock. ■
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free os- application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of. the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 41d. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
The rise and progress of spiritualism in
ENGLAND, by BENJAMIN COLEMAN. The author gives some
important facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which he was identified, and an account of some of the most remarkable
of his personal experiences. E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane; George Farmer,
4, Kingsgate-streot, Holborn. Price One Shilling.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 8, 1875,
%s
11
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Oitice-Bearees for 1874.
President.—James "Wason, Esg. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lament.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Committee of Management.—Mr. Archibald Lament, Mr. William Meredith,
Mr. G-. Wharmby, Mr. Hinsdale, Mr. R. Casson, Mr. D. Gay, Mr. T. B.
Griffin, Mr. Riece, Mr. Davis, Mr. Knox, Mr. Garland, Mr. Dean, Mrs,
Dinsdale, Mrs. Casson, Mrs. Gay.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lament, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
1 in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
January 9th, 1874.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members.
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3s. quarterly; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual.
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary at the Booms as above.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President,
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Secretary.
N.B.—Special arrangements are made for the last Thursday evening
in each month.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Oogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses, every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
TO THE READERS OF “ THE MEDIUM.” Answer
to William Howitt’s Letter on the British National Association
of Spiritualists. By Algernon Joy (“Iota.") Published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane. Price One Penny
Animal magnetism and magnetic lucid
SOMNAMBULISM, with Observations and Illustrative Instances of
Analagous Phenomena occurring spontaneously, by Edwin Lee, M.D., etc.
or. 8vo, cloth new, published at 7s. 6d. Longmans, 1866. Offered for a short
time at 3s. 6d. by Henry Kimpton, 82, High Holborn, London. Other
books on kindred subjects in stock.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “ An
Idyll of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just Published, Folio, price 3s. 6d., First Series.
FAC-SIMILES of DRAWING of the SPIRIT-LIFE
and PROGRESS, by a Girl 12 years of age, under Spirit Influence.
Edited, with an introduction, by J. M. Gully, M.D., London.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
Just published, price 2s.
CUR ATI YE MESMERISM,
BY
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER.
To be had from the Author, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, or from
Baillikre & Co., King William-street, Strand..
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
- SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W. '
TWO weekly seances are held at these rooms, on Tuesday
and Friday evenings. Admission, 6d, and 3d.—/See Advertisement.
A discussion Class on Wednesday evenings. All friends^ whether
Spiritualists or not, are invited to take part in these friendly meetings.
The object of the committee and of the members generally is, to spread
abroad a knowledge of the great and precious truths of Spiritualism. We
unite and labour for this purpose, and earnestly hope for the co-operation
of all who are solicitous, that their fellow men should become acquainted
with the fact of spirit-life and spirit-communion.
Subscription, Is. per quarter, for which valuable and interesting works
on Spiritualism, &e., are lent to read.
Charles J. Hunt, Hon. Secretary.
MARYLEBONE ASSOCIATI6N OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
6, BLANDFORD-STREET, BAKER-STREET, W.
LECTURES by the following gentleman will be delivered
at above address as follows:—
On Wednesday, January 13th, Mr. Joseph Cartwright will deliver a
lecture entitled, “ Spiritualism, and the Rev. J. May of Saltash.”
On Wednesday, January 20th, Mr. Joseph Freeman will deliver a lecture
entitled, “Utility of Spiritualism.”
On Wednesday, January 27th, Mr. C. W. Pearce will deliver a lecture
entitled,
On Wednesday, February 3rd, Mr. James Bums, of 15, Southampton-row,
Holborn, W.C., will deliver a lecture entitled, “Spiritual and Progressive
Thought in the Writings of Robert Burns," illustrated by readings of his
poetry in the Scottish Dialect.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
(ESTABLISHED A.D. 1870.)
The Council beg to announce to the members and their friends, as well as
Metropolitan Spiritualists, that arrangements have been made to
commemorate the
FOURTH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ASSOCIATION, BY A
SOIREE DANSANTE,
AT THE LUXEMBURGH HALL,
(Opposite Dalston Junction Station, North London Railway),
ON THURSDAY EVENING, JAN. 14th, 1875.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, ESQ. (President of the Association), will preside.
A first-class Tea, and Coffee, ef'e., will he provided during the evening.
Vocal and Instrumental Music, interspersed with short congratulatory
addresses by influential Spiritualists and friends, will be contributed between
Half-past Seven and Nine o’clock.
Doors open at Six o’Clock, Dancing to Commence at Nine ©’Clock.
M.C., Mr. Bishop. An efficient band will be in attendance.
A number of Paintings, Writings, Drawings, Photographs of eminent
English and Foreign Spiritualists, specimens of Spirit Photography, Litera¬
ture, Crystals, &c., will be exhibited during the evening.
Admission:—Single Ticket, 3s.; Members of the Association, 2s. 6d.
Double do. (for Lady and Gentleman), 5s.: Members, 3s. 6d. Family do.
(to admit Four Persons), 7s. 6d.; Members, 5s.
To be obtained prior to the date of the Soiree Dansante, at the following
Agents, viz.—Mr. Thos. Wilks, Circulating Library, Dalston-lane, E.; Miss
Luckhurst, Stationer, &c., 202, Queen’s-road, Dalston, E.; Mr. Thomas
Blyton, 12, St. Philip’s-road, Dalston, E., Mr. J. Sparey, 13, Middleton-road,
Kingsland, E.; Mr. Robert Cogman’s, Spiritualist Institute, 15, -St. Peter’s-
road, Mile End, E.; Mr, F. M. Parkes, Spirit Photographer, 6, Gaynes Park-
terrace, Grove-road, Bow, E.; Mr. F. Bear, Tobacconist, 12, High-street,
Bow, E.; Mr. J. W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden Town, N.W.; Mrs.
Maltby, 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith. W.; at the
Rooms of the Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.; and at the doors
of the Hall, nn the evening.
Early application for Tickets is respectfully solicited.
A. M. GREENE, Hon. Sec.
JOHN BRAY,
NEWS-AGENT, BOOKSELLER, AND STATIONER,
82 St. James’s-street, and 37, Upper St. James’s-street, Brighton.
Twopence in the shilling discount on all books if paid fo r on delivery
Bookbinding, Printing, &c. Circulating library, well supplied with all the
modern magazines and reviews. Advertisements inserted in all the London
and Provincial papers.
The Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
SPIRITUALISM AND REFORM. “ The Banner of Light ”
Newspaper. An Exponent of the Spiritual Philosophy of the Nine¬
teenth Century. Issued every Saturday, by Colby and Rich, No. 9,
Montgomery-place, Boston, Mass. U.S. Terms of Subscription in advance:—
Per Year, 3,00 dollars. Six Months, 1,50 dollars. Tnree Months, 75 cents.
C. & R. keep for sale at their Bookstore all Spiritual, Progressive and
Reformatory Publications. Catalogues sent free.
Now ready, priee Sixpence,
THE DAY OF PENTECOST AND ITS PHENOMENA.
A Sermon-Lecture by Frederic Rowland Young, Minister of the
Free Christian Church, New Swindon, and formerly Editor of the
Christian Spiritualist. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane.
LUNACY LAW REFORM ASSOCIATION.
Yrawttrer.—Herbert N. Mozley, Esq., 92, Chancery-lane.
Offices.—64, BERNERS STREET.
    How. /Sec.—Mrs. Lows (Louisa).
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition, price 3s.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz.
.  London :—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on he shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
liberal discount for cash.
Beveridge and
FULLWOOD’
CO., Printers of The
BARENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
Spiritualist,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
VOJLUJVIE ^IX. JMUJVtBEI^ TWO.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 8th, 1878.
CJu Spntalist
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, thd.
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long' Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No nofeicd is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of u The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
, City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist maybe ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
. New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &e., 154, Bourke-street.
,, Mr. H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queensberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78. Gertrude-street.
,, Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Brunswick-street.
Richmond.—Mr. T. Cary, nesvs agent, Bridge-road.
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-street.
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst—J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-street.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and.New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe,
and London, is one shilling.
JpiEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY:
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
TempOfary Offleet—4, Fitzroy-square, W
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. XXV.
In answer to my objection on religious grounds to the
tendency of the teaching of Imjjerator, it was ivritten
further at the same time as the previous communica¬
tion —
You question whether the tendency of our teaching be
not to Atheism, Deism, or pure Theism. It is indicative
of the ignorance which obtains amongst you that one
who is usually accurate and well-informed, should class
in the same category Theism and Atheism. We know
nothing of that cheerless, hopeless nonsense which
denies the existence of a God whose acts, we should
have thought, must he palpable to all, even to the
meanest intelligence among the most debased of His
creatures. Were it not that we know how man can
blind himself, we should refuse to believe that any
reasoning being could rest in such a conclusion. Doubt¬
less we teach that there is one Supreme Being over all—
one who is not manifested as man has fancied, but who
has ever announced to His creatures from time to time
such facts about Himself as they are able to comprehend;
or, to speak more accurately, has enabled them to
develope in their minds that receptive faculty which
assimilates truer views of Himself and of His dealings.
We have before explained to you that man’s craving is
correlative with God’s revelation. The effluence of the
Supreme shines into the prepared spirit. It is the
waiting soul on its watch-tower of prayer that catches
the first beams of truth as the sun rises above the
horizon.
We tell you, as Jesus of Nazareth told His disciples,
of a loving, pure, and holy God who guides and governs
the universe; who, though far from being the anthro¬
pomorphic conception that man has made Him, is no
impalpable abstraction, but a living power; a true
spiritual father, who is no mere embodiment of a force,
but an energising being, albeit known only to you by
His operations and through your imperfect conceptions
of His nature and attributes. This is what we have
spoken to you, eradicating, so far as we have been able,
that which in you was dishonouring to the Supreme
and All-wise God, but leaving undisturbed other theo¬
logical fancies, which, though erroneous or imperfect in
conception, were not of special moment.
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-read, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “ spirit teachings ” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
14
THE SPIKITUALIST.
Jan. 8, 1875.
If you say that our teaching tends to show that there
is no such thing as absolute truth, we can but express
our thankfulness that we have so far made ourselves
intelligible to you. No doubt there is for you, in your
present imperfect state, no such thing as absolute truth,
even as there is no such thing as absolute perfection.
You surely do not expect that your eye can gaze un¬
dimmed into mysteries which dazzle the vision of the
most advanced intelligences ? Surely you do not hope
that your circumscribed intellect can grasp the infinite
and incomprehensible—that which to us in far distant
ages shall still remain an object of adoring wonder ?
The suggestion can only spring from ignorance, caused
by the imperfect state of development in which you
now live. For you truth must be variable, not to be
grasped in its entirety; not to* be viewed in minute
detail, but only dimly seen in shadowy outline, as through
an encircling veil.
We do not even pretend that we reveal to you
absolute truth; for we ourselves have much into which
we long to search, unexplored heights to which we yet
hope to mount. We' do but give you such aid as we
are permitted, in shadowing forth for yourselves concep¬
tions of the Supreme which shall be less widely removed
from truth, than those which have passed current amongst
men as the immediate revelation of the Most High.
In so doing there has been evolved a system of theology
which you admit to be coherent, beautiful, and elevated;
a system which will be acceptable in the main to those
on a similar plane of progression with yourself. We
have not ventured to do more. We have shown you a
God who commands your admiration and respect. We
have given you a rational and comprehensible view of
your duty to Him, to yourself and to mankind, and we
have established our moral code, not by the persuasive
inducements of a heaven and hell such as you are wont
to h^ar of, but by arguments not less persuasive, by in- i
ducements which do not come home less effectively to
the soul.
To say that we teach a motiveless religion is surely
the strangest misconception. What! Is it nothing that
we teach you that each act in this, the seed-time of your
life, will bear its own fruit in the hereafter ? that the
results of conscious and deliberate sin must needs be
remedied in sorrow and shame at the cost of infinitely
laborious pain in far-distant ages ? that the erring spirit
must gather up the tangled thread of its former sins, and
strive as best it may to unravel the evil of which it was
long ages ago the perpetrator — and this not per¬
functorily, not imperfectly, as a task to be finished with
all speed, but with burning earnestness and with over¬
mastering zeal, as knowing that on the perfect comple¬
tion of the work happiness absolutely depends ? Ah !
could you see the tearful, prayerful pains that erring
spirits must take to purge them of their stains of guilt;
the efforts by which alone they can emerge into peace
from the surging whirlpool into which their sins have
plunged them ; hear the despairing cries as another, and
yet another, consequence of their sin discovers itself; the
shuddering sense of blood-guiltiness, as thoughtless deeds
develope themselves into misery, despair, and death;
could you see, in a word, the infinite ramification of
the effects of sin and the efforts of the awakened soul to
undo them, you would not need to seek for a stronger
deterrent, nor speak to us of “ motiveless religion.”
Is it nothing that we tell you yet again that words—
even the idle words you daily speak—are as the pebble
thrown into the pool, which causes an ever-widening
ripple, ceaselessly enlarging in its effects ? that each
word is of effect to you incalculable in its influence, and
that for such influence you are accountable ? that the
good which your influence produces is to you hereafter
a source of thankfulness and profit, whilst, of the ill you
view in agony and remorse the baleful effects ?
Is it nothing that we tell you that reward and
punishment are not delayed till a far-off day, faintly
imagined in the vista of the future, after a period of
torpor, almost of death, of the spirit, but is instant,
immediate, supervening upon sin by the action of an
invariable law, and acting unceasingly until the cause
which produced it is removed ?
Is this no incentive to a life of sanctity and progress ?
Which, say you, is the most powerful inducement to
holiness and sincerity of life? That creed which we
have indicated, or that which teaches that a man may
live as seems him good, may wrong his neighbour, insult
his God, and debase himself; may break all laws,
Divine and human; may be loathsome in his moral
nature, a blot on the name of humanity, and then by a
fanatical cry, by a shriek of fear wrung from the coward
heart by dread, by a fancied faith, by a momentary
operation of the mind, may be instantaneously fitted to
enter a dreamy heaven, where his joy will be that which
all his nature must view with disgust, but which, now
that nature is magically changed, becomes the fitting
occupation of eternity? To put aside the manifest
absurdities, impossibilities, and contradictions of the
latter ideal, which, we ask of you, will move the de¬
graded man most ? To tell him that he—he and none
else—must suffer for each sin, and that the cup of
suffering must be drained to the bitter dregs; that he
must howl for pain, even as he has afflicted others ; that
he must be purified by no magical metamorphosis, but
by slow and painful process of purification till each in¬
grained stain be eaten out; that each sin must be atoned
for, not by an external vicarious Saviour, but by him¬
self; and that no rest, no happiness is possible for him
till this is done, and he grows a holier, purer man ? or
to tell him that, do what he will, though he risks much,
still heaven is open to the greatest sinner, and that a
cry, an act of faith on his death-bed, can make him
instantly pure and good and present him, after a distant
judgment, some time, somehow, in a heaven whereinto
naught enters that can defile, and where his eternal
occupation will be that which he now deems the most
monotonous and insipid?
We know, and you know, which faith is most likely to
appeal to man’s intellect; which would be the strongest
deterrent from crime; which would keep a wanderer in
the path of rectitude most surely. And yet you say that
we teach a vague religion in place of a definite; a
colourless gospel in place of one backed by a definite
system of reward and punishment. Nay, nay, friend.
We.are they who teach the definite, precise, and intelli¬
gible system of reward and punishment; but we do not
feign, in doing so, a foolish heaven, a brutal hell, and a
human God. Ye are they who relegate to a far-off
speck the day of retribution, and encourage the vilest
reprobate to believe that he may enter into the very
presence-chamber of his God some time, somewhere,
somehow, if he will only assent to statements which he
does not understand, which he does not believe, and in
which, save as they may act as charms for his own benefit,
he feels no sort of interest.
Surely this is another perversion of truth, reason, and
sense. Were such a creed the best devised for deterring
Jan. 8, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
15
man from sin, •which it is not, it is in itself so intrinsi¬
cally contradictory and absurd that it cannot stand the
test of a moment’s serious consideration. It has the
prescription of antiquity, and men do not examine it.
It has been gradually evolved, piece by piece, and fitted
together by curious and casuistical souls who have vexed
themselves with vain questionings until the hideous
monster they have created has frightened even them¬
selves. It bears on its very surface traces of its origin,
and can seriously affect only that portion of your race,
large now, but insignificant and rapidly dwindling, who
have not dared to think for themselves.
We challenge comparison. We boldly assert that,
independently of its intrinsic truth and rational intelligi¬
bility, the creed we teach is one which, if a man accept
it, will be the best deterrent from vice, the most potent
incentive to a good and holy life ; which holds out most
rational views and hopes for the future ; which is even
now most powerful in its influence on daily life, and
which, more than any other yet promulgated to man,
will tend to the elevation, the happiness, and the benefit
of your race.
It must be so, for it is divine—the latest and highest
revelation of divine truth. As such, and no less, it
comes to you, a message from your God. As in old
days, so now; the message comes, but man heeds it not.
We do not expect that this should be received save amongst
those who are fitted to receive it. We do not wish for
it any other reception, even were it possible. The time
will come when it will flow into the soul of man, and
he will wonder that he did not before see its divine
beauty. When that time comes, friend, you will see
its beneficent operation. Man will sin less in hope of
a cheap salvation; he will be guided by a more intelli¬
gent and intelligible hope in the future; he will need
fewer coercive regulations, fqwer punishments by human
law; and the motive-spring within him will be proved
to be not less forcible and enduring than that system of
heavenly inducements and hellish deterrents which
crumble away before serious consideration, and which
can no longer allure or deter when once man has probed
them. -f- Impebatok.
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF THE EDDY BROTHERS.
COLONEL H. S. OLCOTT’S DESCRIPTION OE THE MANI¬
FESTATIONS.
The Hew York Daily Graphic has printed long
descriptions of the appearance of materialised spirits,
witnessed through the mediumship of the Eddy
Brothers, at Chittenden, Vermont. The accbunts
were written by its special correspondent, Colonel
II. S. Olcott, a well-known literary man in New York.
In his fifteenth letter to that paper, Colonel Olcott
says:—
APPEAKANCE OE ABAB, INDIAN, AND OTHER SPIRITS.
Rutland, Vt., November.
I can imagine, at least to some extent, how Charlotte
Cushman felt the other night when, with moistened
eyes and faltering accents, she bade farewell to the
kind public that had encouraged and sustained her so
long; for I, too, am about to part with my public—
the hundred thousand readers of the Daily Graphic
who have so indulgently followed me through this
narrative during the past ten weeks. I have received
so many letters of encouragement from all parts of the
country, from total strangers, and so many kind things
have been said in so many journals of all classes, that
I feel a greater regret to announce my closing chapters
and take leave of my audience, than I had imagined
it possible for me to experience. These numerous
tokens of regard have not only stimulated me in the
serious work in hand, but also afforded a marked proof
of the deep interest that prevails in the subject we
have been discussing. I wish, from the bottom of my
heart, that I could give to the bereaved ones who have
appealed to me that consolation which they so eagerly
crave, that I could allay their doubts and encourage
their hopes; but my whole usefulness as an investigator
would be destroyed by my assuming the part of a pro¬
pagandist. My duty is simply to report what I see as
fairly, accurately, and intelligibly as lies in my power,
and leave each reader to form his or her own conclu¬
sions therefrom.
The spirits whose appearances have been thus far
described were either Indians or whites of American or
European lineage. Up to the 2nd of October I had never
seen one of any other nationality, but on that evening
there appeared an Arab who was an old friend of a
lady well known in magazine literature as “ Aunt Sue.”
He was of short stature, slight and wiry build, and his
very salaam to the lady when recognised, was in marked
contrast with the constrained bows of the Indians and the
more or less ungraceful salutations of the whites. His
name is Yusef. He was dressed in a white tunic,
gathered at the waist by a sash, and the skirt orna¬
mented with three equi-distant bands of red of the same
width. On his head was the national fez, and in his
sash was thrust a weapon of some kind, which I could
not see distinctly. A number of questions propounded
to him were answered by respectful bows, and his
parting obeisance was of that deferential, but at the
same time self-respecting, character that is peculiar to
the peoples of the Orient. Five Indians—“ Black Swan’s
Mother,” “ Bright Star,” “ Daybreak,” “ White Fea¬
ther” (who wore so long a plume in his hair that it
was bent by the door-casing as he bowed his head to pass
through), and“ Santum”—had preceded him, following
Mrs. Eddy, whose address I referred to in the letter
preceding this; and one, “Swift Cloud,” came after,
so that a most favourable opportunity was afforded to
note the contrast between his manners and deport¬
ment and those of our aborigines. The seance was
closed, as usual, by old Mr. Brown, who had some talk
with his son about a new house he was erecting, and
then departed. But, returning after a moment, he
addressed a woman present who, it appeared, had come
under a false name, and whose spirit-daughter had
appeared to hen the evening before, and asked, “Was
that child,   , your daughter ?” The mother said
it was. “What is her other name?” asked the in¬
quisitive spirit. The woman hesitated a moment, and
then faltered out, “ Smith.” “ Well,” said he, “ I hope
she may never feel as if she had to deny her name”
and was gone. This thing happened several times
during my visit; so it will be as well for persons who
are ashamed to give their right names to stay away
from Chittenden.
CURIOTTS DARK CIRCLE MANIFESTATIONS.
In the dark circle of this same evening I had another
volunteer exhibition of spirit power that ought to
puzzle sceptics less self-complacent than our muscular-
contractionists. My weighing-scales were standing on
16
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 8, 1875.
the platform, at the right of the cabinet, where the ex¬
periment with Hon to was tried. We had had some
music from Mayflower and the spirit-band of unusual
sweetness, and the little girl—whom I never can men¬
tion without a feeling of affection, so childlike and
loveable is her nature—had made a ludicrous failure
with her rhyming improvisations upon “ Music,”
“ Pictures,” and “ War and Peace,” when Dix said that
if we would all remain quiet for a few minutes and the
violinist would play something, he would try to organise
an extra strong “ battery.” His directions were fol¬
lowed, and for awhile no sound was heard except the
dolqrous rasp of the instrument. Little Mayflower
passed along the front row and laid her guitar on each
one’s lap, and presently we had an Indian dance such
as I described in a previous letter. Then I knew, from
a rattling and banging of my platform-scale, that some¬
thing new was about to happen. It was moved along
the whole length of the platform with such a noise that
I thought to myself I would have a pretty bill of
damages to pay the next morning, but the thought was
hardly formed before George Dix, with a laugh, said:
“ Don’t worry, Mr. Olcott; I won’t hurt your scale
and he fell to whistling and tugging at the dead weight
like a jolly stevedore working among a cargo of cotton.
The scale reached the steps, and then went bumping
down to the floor of the room, and was rolled to a point
near the medium’s chair, where it stopped. We heard
some one step upon the platform and the beam kick
against the pad, as though a heavy weight were on it.
George said, “ I guess I’ll see how much I weigh and
then, after running the poise along the notches and
changing one counterpoise weight for another, reported
163 pounds. I asked him how high he was, and he
replied 5 feet 8 inches. We then heard Mayflower’s
voice saying, “Now weigh me, George,” and his
answer, “All right; get on ;’’ and another and lighter
person was heard to mount the platform, and the noise
of weighing, with another change of counterpoise
weights, was followed by a call for a light. This being
struck, Mr. Poole, of New Jersey, and Mr. Wilkins, of
Vermont, who had acted as a committee on our behalf
to tie Horatio, stepped to the scale with the candle, and
announced the beam as marking forty pounds. But the
medium, speaking in the voice of a spirit known as
t( Drench Mary,” said, “ No; it is thirty-eight pounds;”
which, upon a second and closer look, with the candle
held nearer, they found to be so. Now, if any one
chooses to say that the medium knew the weight be¬
cause he had handled it himself, it will be necessary for
him to account for—
1. The fact that after the weighing he was bound as
tightly and identically the same as he was by the com¬
mittee before the room was darkened; and,
2. How, supposing that he could unbind and rebind
himself, which I deny, he could run the poise along the
scale beam in a pitchy dark room to a certain notch,
and be able to correct an unexpected error of the com¬
mittee. The experiment was to me very interesting as
furnishing a new proof of the great force at the com¬
mand of the spirits, as well as their ability to either
see in the dark, or, instantly upon the lighting of the
candle, to convey the correct reading of the figures to
the mind of the medium.
THE SEANCE HOOM CHANGED.
The following night’s seance was to my mind the most
satisfactory, as a test, of any held during my visit in
one respect, viz.: that it proved that neither the hall
up stairs, nor the hollow platform, nor the cabinet floor,
nor that mysterious window that has so troubled the
souls of many superficial “ sceptics ” had anything to
do with the manifestations. Just before the usual hour
of assembly, finding the Eddy boys in an unusually
tractable mood, I proposed that for once we should hold
our sitting in the reception-room where we were
gathered about the stove. This being assented to with¬
out hesitancy, the old shawl that hangs over the cabinet
door was brought down, the rough mattress and some
working-clothes upon the wall of a dark closet under
the stairs were removed, and we were ready to begin
the seance.
The room or closet measures 9 feet 2 inches by 5
feet 3 inches, with a ceiling 8 feet high—narrow
quarters for a person to sleep in, and with the door
shut; a place that ought to be fatal to- any pair of
lungs that had ever been accustomed to a breath of
fresh air. And yet this is where “Joe,” the pugnacious
but musical farm-hand, whom every visitor will recol¬
lect, takes his nightly repose. .There is no window
here, at any rate, to awaken the suspicions of the
wary psychologist, or demand of me a covering of
sealed mosquito netting; and I conclude that if the
spirits should show themselves there the fact would go
a long way towards making out my case.
Just before the shawl was hung, "William insisted on
my coming into the den to examine it in any way
I pleased, but as I had already breathed its fetid atmo*-
sphere on another occasion, when I measured it and
sounded its walls and floor, I wished to decline. He
would take no denial, however, and so, lamp in hand, I
went in and made a general survey. There was
nothing to be seen but the bare floor and plastered
walls ; and running my hands over William’s clothing
under the laughing pretext of magnetising him, I
enabled myself, to assure the reader, that he had
nothing concealed about his person. The shawl-
curtain was arranged and we took our seats in an arc
that stretched from the halLdoor to that leading into
the dining-room. My post was in the crown of the
arc, right opposite and not more than eight or nine feet
from the “ cabinet” door. The lamp was*placed on a
shelf in the chimney at the south-east corner of the
room.
SPIBIT DBAPEBT MATEBIALISED IN THE LIGHT.
We had not long to wait, for after the lapse of-a few
minutes the shawl was lifted and out jumped Honto, as
lively as a squirrel. She was dressed in a light suit
throughout, with a scarf about her waist and her hair
hanging loose down her back. She stepped to the
dining-room door, lifted the latch and threw it open ;
then began capering about in her usual way as if she
were in fine spirits. Shawl after shawl she twitched
from old Mrs. Cleveland’s and Mr. Pritchard’s feet and
shoulders; astonishing them as much each time as
Hermann does the victim he entraps into “ assisting ”
him in his magical entertainments. Then she stepped
to the right of the cabinet door, and stood just opposite
me, looking intently upon the floor, by the mop-board.
There was nothing to be seen at first but the bare planks,
but, presto! as' I suddenly watched I saw a heap of some¬
thing black, as it might be a piece of a woman’s dress
or a quantity of black netting. She stretched out her
hand, and daintily picked it up with thumb and fore¬
finger, and it was—one of her shawls ! Thus, within
THE SPIRITUALIST,
17
Jan. 8, 1875.
a few feet of my nose, she exhibited the whole process
of materialising fabrics, and left me in a very pleased
mood, as may be imagined.
MATEEIALISATION OF MEX, WOMEN, AND CHILDREN.
Honto was followed by old Mrs. Pritchard, who was
dressed, as usual, in her greyish frock and white apron
and kerchief, and who had some pleasant words for her
son.
Then appeared a charming young woman carrying a
child; the woman was recognised by her sister as Mrs.
Josephine Dow, late of Chittenden township. She died
twenty-four years ago at the age of nineteen. Her
robe was pure white and flowing, gathered in at the
waist by a string, so that the folds of the upper part
lay over it after a very classical fashion. Her auburn
hair fell in a mass over her shoulders, and as she stood
there petting the child, I thought I had never seen a
prettier sight in all my visit. She stepped back into
the cabinet, whereupon the voice of Mrs. Eaton said :
“ Mr. Olcott, this is the subject we have selected for the
artist’s picture. The spirit will now return without the
child, so that Mr. Kaffer may take a good look at her”
—and back she came, alone, and stood to the right of
the curtain with her right arm crossed over her waist,
and her left hanging by her side, looking the artist full
in the face. Mrs. Eaton said that the spirit, came back
alone because it took so much extra power to materialise
the baby, that the spirit herself was made too weak to
stop out long enough to give us a thorough view of her
own form. Blake, the Irish painter, used to see spirits
sitting to him for their portraits in his studio when he
was alone, but did any one ever hear before of a spirit
coming for the purpose to an artist in the presence of a
mixed company of fifteen persons ?
After the “Madonna and Child,” as I felt like
christening our models, we saw the spirit of William
Packard, late of Albany, and grandson of old Mrs.
Pritchard, who seemed so disposed to make friends with
the artist that, at that gentleman’s request, he moved
quite far along the wall to the right, where his figure
was thrown into high relief by the light-coloured paper
■hangings. His face was round, and he wore a long
black moustache. His costume comprised a dark sack-
coat and dark pantaloons, a single-breasted vest, and
white shirt with collar—quite different from William’s,
who wore his ordinary checked gingham shirt, without
collar or cuffs.
We were then delighted to see the mysterious Mrs.
Eaton herself, whose shrill voice we had so often heard
issue from the cabinet up stairs. She was a little old
wrinkled woman, in an old-fashioned muslin mob-cap
with a ribbon about the crown, a greyish dress, and a
check woollen shoulder-shawl, with its points crossed
over her bosom, She advanced two or three feet from
the curtain, and, looking at me, said that she had seen
our picture of The Phantom Carriage,” and could
suggest no improvement, as it was true to nature. I
expressed my pleasure at seeing her in person, hearing
her speak, and seeing her lips move, for it was now un¬
questionable that the voice up stairs was hers and not
the medium’s. She said that it was for that very
purpose she had materialised herself, and that the spirit
band controlling these manifestations had desired the
change for that evening to the lower room. She and
they knew how anxious I was for such tests as would
satisfy myself and the world of the genuineness of the
phenomena, and desired to further my wishes; but
they, like ourselves, were subject to the conditions
around them, and where a circle was constantly
changing and never the same two evenings in succession,
they could not do all that either I demanded or they
wished.
After her came out an old gentlemanly-looking man,
with a fine, intellectual head. His silver locks were
brushed from either ear towards his crest, as if to con¬
ceal his baldness. He was dressed in a well-cut black
coat, buttoned up high, and pantaloons to match. He
spoke in a low voice in answer to a question from his
relative present, who afterwards informed me that he
formerly lived at Davenport, $T. Y., where he died
thirty-nine years ago, at the advanced age of eighty-
two years.
Our next visitor was Augusta , a child of four¬
teen, who was clothed in a white dress, and sweetly
smiled and recognised her mother, who sat next to me.
The last form to appearSwas Jeremiah McCready, late
of Cayuga County, H. Y., whose materialisation was
very strong and satisfactory; and this brought to a
close a most remarkable and satisfactory evening’s
entertainment.
GENERAL CONCLUSIONS BY COLONEL OLCOTT.
I can hardly express the relief I experienced at the
result of this seance. Convinced as I had long been of
the good faith of William Eddy; satisfied' as my reason
was that it was a physical impossibility for the man to
simulate' such a variety of forms, making himself at
one moment a patriarch of eighty or a tottering grand¬
mother, and the next a babe in arms or a toddling child
of three or four years; now a giant Indian chief or a
dancing squaw, and anon a roving spearsman of the
plain of Ararat or a bronze-faced fellah from the foot
of the Pyramids; twisting his inflexible tongue around
the gutturals, nasals, and sibilants of numerous lan¬
guages that certainly nobody outside of the Oriental
Society or some occasional Dominie Sampson had
mastered; convinced, I say, as I was upon all these
points—that ventilating window, hollow platform,
and seven-by-two cabinet forced themselves oftener
than I liked between my mental vision and the bald
facts—I confess to a feeling closely akin to astonish¬
ment when Honto, the selfsame copper - coloured
squaw, the pipe-smoking, shawl-weaving, dancing,
laughing Honto, stepped out and confronted me.
It seemed that it would be next to impossible for
enough of the spiritual matter-essence to filter through
that plastered wall for these cunning electro-platers to
make a covering withal for their filmy forms. But there
she . was, sure enough, in full form—with no detail of
her dress lacking, no lock of her massive suit of hair
gone; her figure as plump, her motions as supple, her
attitudes as widely statuesque as ever before. When
she had passed away from our sight, I awaited the
coming of the next spirit with eager attention, for,
even then it seemed to me that it could not be possible
for another to materialise itself. Honto was the
familiar spirit of the medium, or somehow attached
to, and, as it were, enamelled upon the family, so that
she could do impossibilities that no one else from the
other world could. But, in the midst of my doubt and
mistrust, there came the grey-white apparition of old
Mrs. Pritchard, the very starch in her apron and cap
seeming as if it were crisp from the laundry. Then, I
think, the conviction formed itself that, no matter how
many “ sceptics ” came battering against the granitic
18
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 8, 1875.
facts, no matter what array of “ exposers” might blow
their tin horns and penny trumpets, that Jericho would
stand. Then I said to myself that if William Eddy
were caught fifty times playing at materialisation, with
“ cork soles,” “ ragged blankets,” and up-standing hair,
the genuine phenomena of this one seance could not be
obliterated from my memory. In his dark hole of a
cabinet there was not a hit of woollen, silk, or cotton
rag the size of a finger-stall, nor a mocassin or string
of beads; not a wig, nor even a stick of black; pomade,
much less a wash-bowl, water, or towels; and about
his person, as I had discovered by my innocent rwse,
there were none of these things; and yet there had
appeared—but the story is already told, and I need not
repeat.
Two features of this occasion will arrest the atten¬
tion of scientific minds, viz., the appearance and dis¬
appearance of the baby, and the instantaneous forma¬
tion of Honto and shawl. There could be no mistake
about the child—no question of rag-wrapped legs or
fondled pillows. The figure stood too near me, and in
too good a light, to admit of such deceptions being
practised. It was a living, moving child, which, with
its right thumb in its mouth, nestled its little head in
the neck of its bearer, and passed its chubby left arm
about her neck. Eor the instant it was as palpable and,
no doubt, as material a being as any baby now lying in
its mother’s arms. Made from the imponderable atoms
floating in the foul air of that chamber, it was resolved
into nothing in an instant of time, leaving no trace of
its evanescent existence behind. And the shawl! In
what spirit home, by what hearth, or under what vine-
trellised porch (for Mayflower’s rhymes teem with allu¬
sions to her house and garden, her pets and domestic
companions) was its ’yarn spun, its knots tied, and its
strands tinted ? Whose busy fingers plied the needles,
or whose hand guided the ghostly loom by which its
meshes were formed ? Mystery of mysteries ! What
(Edipus can solve the riddle ? And how long must we
wait for an answer ? Henky S. Olcott.
DESCRIPTIONS OE THE MANIFESTATIONS FROM OTHER
SOURCES.
A correspondent signing himself “ P. W. E.,” who
has visited the Eddys at Chittenden, Yt., writes as fol¬
lows to the Hartford Times :
In the closet was a pair of mocassins presented by some
visitor to Hontp. These seem never to have been worn, as
they were perfectly new inside and out, while Honto danced
enough one night to have made,a very sensible impression on
them if worn. She comes in her own toggery, which by dim
light looks very pretty, and as if it might be beautiful if light
enough were let on. Sometimes, however, she wears a jaunty
smoking-cap. “ Brown,” the controlling “ spirit ,” so-called, is
evidently very tall, being higher than the top of the door, and
stoops to look out; if this is Eddy himself he must be
standing in the rocking chair ; but as William comes out in
his common dress immediately after Brown ceases, it would
hardly appear time was given to effect any change of raiment.
If there is any such it must be before Brown’s speech, with
which the sittings generally close. It is to be remarked,
Brown himself never comes on the stage, but is concealed
behind the curtain, and only shows his head. It certainly
must be six feet high from the floor. Another point in favour
of the Eddys is this, Honto was lithe as a whip and nimble
as a deer, darting back and forth with agility and grace.
She also appeared to me considerably more narrow of shoulder
than William. The arms were small, and very considerably
unlike what we might expect in Mr. Eddy. Again, there was
a great variety in dress ; for instance, one large Indian figure
followed another at intervals of five to ten minutes, dissimi¬
larly dressed; these were followed by Honto in another
entirely different garb, and she was succeeded by six others,
male and female, with black, white and grey clothes, of different
cut and fashion. The faces were sometimes apparently black,
and sometimes a faint white. The question presents itself,
where were these garments obtained? Wigs, beards, soles,
bracelets, &c. ? I did not look into the cabinet (which was
open) before the sitting, and it has been suggested they might
have been put there after supper and before the seance* As
the door was open I can hardly think this true. But admit¬
ting they had been thus placed, I entered the cabinet a few
moments after Eddy left it, clothed as he entered and as he
had been all day. There remained absolutely nothing there
except the few articles mentioned as being there all day, and
none of which had been used, except, possibly, the cap of
Honto. It is, moreover, singular that Eddy should select as a
chief performer a female character as dissimilar as possible to
himself, and for which his size, rigidity, voice, and shape
rendered him peculiarly unfit. During these seances five or
six very different suits of garments were worn each evening ;
and on every evening different characters in part were intro¬
duced. Some of these garments were long, flowing to the feet,
others scant, and of various colours, from white to black. Now
all these garments, even if of gossamer (and Honto spun out
at least forty yards of cloth by measurement, and of different
colours, in one evening), would make a very considerable pile,
even if they could be used on different characters. Besides,
there must have been masks or paint for the face; if the
former, what had become of them ? if the latter, where was the
water to come from to wash it off. Eddy comes out with a
clean face. The suggestion of a false floor or entrance into
the chimney projection may be at once dismissed as simply
impossible. In the dark circle the music upon some of the
instruments was very excellent; that upon what I took to be
an accordion was charming. These, as well as ventriloquism,
would require in the performers a great, varied, artistic skill,
and accomplishments which would surely reflect themselves in
their manners and features.
Mr. Nathan Mayer writes to the same paper :
After a hearty breakfast of mutton and potatoes, we went
out to feast our eyes on the spectacle of the surrounding
mountains, veiled in mist and dimness, as if they too were
spirits of mountains who had materialised at the Eddys’. We
ascended to “Honto’s Cave,” a rocky loop-hole through which
a shallow brook forced its way. It came foaming down a
gully of greyish-green rocks and descended to the farm, supply¬
ing the house with water. Above, on either side, rose steep
hills, which we climbed with elastic step, something within us
echoing the old tune, “ I’m the boy of the mountain! ” Later
in the day we returned to the house, and I was selected to
read publicly, to the company there assembled, Dr. Beard’s
energetic protest in The Daily Graphic. The faithful believers
among the ladies grew very violent, one declaring she would
“smash his darned old head,” but the gentlemen merely
smiled in derision. Horatio Eddy, who sat smoking, occa¬
sionally took his pipe from his mouth to laugh whenever any¬
thing specially abusive of himself occurred. In the afternoon
we walked to Chittenden, the most God and man forsaken
town in the State. And thus the evening came, and with it
the hour for the seance, which occurred on that day earlier
than usual. Arranged as on the previous evening, with all the
belongings in the same shape, except that the light was
dimmer and the regular fiddler absent, we saw William Eddy
enter the cabinet. Hymns were sung to the accompaniment
of an amateur on the same fiddle, which the fiddler —alas !—
had not carried off. Beginning with “Coronation,” we
ranged, during the evening, through a great variety of sacred
and profane music. We were just intoning “ It was my last
cigar,” to the tune of “Dearest May,” when the curtain
before the cabinet moved as on the previous evening, was
drawn back, dropped again, and finally let out Honto. She
had put on a white gown, reaching to the ankles, with a narrow
dark band across the shoulders and to the waist; a dark over¬
skirt to the knees, wide open in front, white stockings,
apparent when she danced, and two braids of hair falling
down her back. Her features were dark but altogether indis¬
tinct, and her size not unlike that of the medium; but her
shoulders were sloping and seemed much narrower. She went
to the melodeon, played and sang, producing uncouth,
irregular sounds. Then she danced with Mrs. Cleveland, as on
the previous evening, and Mrs. Cleveland describes her as
having a Homan nose, high cheek-bones, and a copper-coloured
complexion. Then Mrs. Jacobs was summoned to the plat¬
form, and asked by the spirit to play the melodeon. Now
began a scene of lively import. Honto danced a war-dance
Jan. 8, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
19
that was a cross between a can-can and a plantation dance.
She seemed light as a feather, leaping up several feet from the
floor with the utmost alacrity and a liberal display of white
stocking. She jumped on to a chair, and immediately darted
down again and picked from Mrs. Cleveland’s foot what
seemed a light rag, which, distending with both hands (not
unfolding), she increased to a piece about two yards in length
and a yard in breadth. It was perfectly transparent and of a
slate tint. This was the “ spirit cloth.” Gathering it in one
hand, she seemed to give it to some one behind the curtain.
Not long after another piece was picked from the bare, blank
wall, and this seemed to spread under her touch to a great
length, so that she threw one end to Mrs. Cleveland, and the
two displayed it along the entire length of the platform,
without stretching, This was of a black tint, transparent,
and also handed behind the curtain. The next piece was
taken from Mrs. Jacobs’s shoulder, and looked like a veil, and
dilated to a length of ten feet. It was disposed of as before.
Next, still holding the curtain in her hand, Honto lifted it far
back, and beckoned to Mrs. Cleveland to look in. She did so,
and said: “ I see him,” referring to the medium. She after¬
wards described that his face being bent down she could not
see it, but discerned his figure plainly, lying on the chair in a
trance. Honto retired with a bow, having been out fifteen or
twenty minutes, going back at intervals, thrice in all, “ to
gather materialising substance.” The next apparition, which
came very soon, was Maggie, the sister of Mrs. Brown, and
hailed as such. She died when she was two years old, but has
grown in spirit-land during the thirty-six years since, and
now appears as a woman of thirty-eight. In regard to this it
is all the more remarkable that “ Mayflower,” the little girl of
the dark seance, who has been dead 150 years,' still retains her
childish voice and ways. “ Maggie ” was dressed in white ;
her robe longer than Honto’s; a veil over her head and
shoulders ; a belt around her waist; the hair light, and the
face ghastly pale. Mr. Brown asked whether she had a
bouquet. She held it up. Again he asked: “ Is mother
present ? ” She rapped, “ Yes.” After a minute’s stay she
retired. Next came a woman. Same white dress, but no
veil, dark hair, indistinct face, with colour livelier than
Maggie’s. Mr. Brown greeted her as his mother. She bowed
and retired, having stayed half a minute. The next appari¬
tion was a woman in black, with a very dim face, whom some¬
body recognised. She was succeeded by another female
form, but of these I remember very little. Then came a man
shorter than the previous figures, in a robe to the ground
which looked like black velvet. The face was altogether indis¬
tinct, the whiskers white. Mr. Cleveland hailed him as
“Governor Chittenden,”'but the figure rapped “No.” Then
he suggested his brother, and received an affirmative rapping.
He was succeeded by “ Mrs. Jacobs’s brother.” He wore a
black coat, black pants, white shirt bosom and collar. The
next was a very short figure, dressed in a dark coat reaching
to the knees, black pants, and having an indefinite counte¬
nance and a black goatee.
MR. MORSE’S AMERICAN EXPERIENCES.
We have received the following interesting letter from Mr.
Morse:—
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—I venture, from this distance, to pen a few lines for
your valuable periodical, in the hope that they will reach you
in safety, and be accorded a place in your columns.
I have been in this country just two months, but. I can
assure you I find it a difficult task to give you, in a systematic
manner, any idea of the impressions produced upon my mind,
by my experiences, up to this time. On all sides I see so much
that is new and strange, manners and customs so different
from those to which I have hitherto been used, that I feel a
delicacy in venturing to give any decided opinions until, at
least, I have had a few more months’ experience.
To give you just a few items, though, I will begin by
saying that the entire country is—or seems to be—instinct
with impending changes. Religion and politics—the all-
absorbing topics here, especially the latter-—from time to time
put forth evidences of deep-seated internal disease. Americans
know, and their papers teem with, tales of political corruption
that are sad to hear of or to read. Distress exists among the
working classes, and thousands are upon the verge of starva¬
tion throughout the Union. Trade is dull; strikes are of
constant occurrence, and bread riots are among the things
possible. As Charles Dickens writes, in Martin Chuzzlewit,
America is always at a “ crisis; ” truly it seems like it now.
Taking matters, though, all round, there is, I think, no fear
for any permanent distress. The country is so large, and,
comparatively, its population—24,000,000—so small, that
matters must eventually be set straight.
Socially, American life differs in many respects from ours.
I should imagine this to be a very paradise for servants—I beg
their pardon—“ helps,” I mean. Where I stayed in Baltimore,
the lady of the house experienced no small amount of difficulty
in getting domestic help because her kitchen was not carpeted !
Three meals a day is the custom. Times: 7 a.m., 1 p.m.
and 6 p.m. Some make the first meal a little later, but as a
rule breakfasts are all done by half-past eight at the latest.
The variety of food that is eaten at once is very peculiar. No
wonder this a nation of dyspeptics.
Democratic equality exists in theory. The lines of demar¬
cation in society are about as clearly defined here as with us.
An untitled aristocracy virtually exists. Verily, it seems as if
“ Crepin ” in the comedy of The Wonderful Woman spoke the
truth, when he said, “ There must be lords, and there must be
markisses.”
Spiritualism occupies a favourable position here, and is a
matter of which every one knows something, more or less. The
press has taken it up pretty freely of late; the New York Daily
Graphic (illustrated) has just concluded a series of illustrated
articles concerning the manifestations through the Eddy boys
at Vermont. These articles were contributed from the pen of
Colonel Olcott, a correspondent specially commissioned for that
purpose. Fairer or more impartial accounts could not have
been printed. The Colonel is making them up in a book form,
and as soon as they are issued I will forward you a copy. .
I am sorry to say, but nevertheless it is true, that our
brethren are sadly divided over here; the cause being the
much-vexed question of “ Free Love,” or, as it is called by the
opposite side, “ free lust.” Public sentiment, outside our
ranks, and the sentiments of all true souls within them, my
own included, join in condemning this—to put it mildly—
most peculiar doctrine. Reforms are needed, all' admit.
But whether the revolutionary measures of the free lovers will
assist their development is very, very doubtful. But this is
such a free country that the wildest speculations scarcely
seem out of place. The advocates of the above doctrine
have purchased a site for a community on Valcour Island,
N. Y., and if half that is alleged against them is true, their
departure for their earthly paradise is the best thing possible
for themselves, Spiritualism, and the world at large.
Permit me a few words with regard to myself. I have
everywhere been received with the utmost kindness, and up to
this time have been uniformly successful. In Baltimore my
labours produced good fruits, doubling the congregation, and
reuniting its forces. When we parted, mutual regret was
felt, and I was earnestly asked to return again if possible.
In this city, Philadelphia, I have also met with the same
kindly reception. Success has also attended the labours of
my controls, and my audiences have averaged twelve hundred
people every Sunday. My engagement closes on Sunday next,
and my visit terminates with a reunion on the following even¬
ing. I return here again next June, being re-engaged for that
month, a sure index of success.
Dr. H. T. Child, President of the Philadelphia Spiritual
Society, is a nice kind-hearted gentleman, as also is Mr.
Robert Dale Owen, each of whom I now number among my
friends. And while speaking of these gentlemen, let me tell
you of their connection with the mediums, Mr. and Mrs.
Nelson Holmes. The “ Katie King,” said to have been ma¬
terialised through Mr. Holmes’ mediumship, turns out to have
been a very human spirit after all; and a long career of decep¬
tion, begun in England, has been exposed at last. I send you
some Philadelphia papers containing the fullest and most
truthful accounts of the expose, so that you can see for your¬
self, and, if thought desirable, lay the matter before your
readers. The matter has created quite a stir here, and has
made things unpleasant. Last Sunday the excitement cul-
ininated in Mr. Owen making a public statement at the close
of the evening lecture. I find the American Spiritualists are
fully acquainted with the malpractices of the above mediums
in our country during their late stay.
From here I go to Greenfield, Mass., for Sunday, Jan. 3rd.
The remaining four Sundays of the month I speak in Beet¬
hoven Hall, Boston, for the Music Hall Society. During
February I speak at points in Massachusetts. In March I
speak in Cleveland, Ohio. I expect to be in Chicago during
April. During the month of May I speak in New Haven,
Connecticut; and for June I am again in this city. I expect
20
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 8, 1875.
to return to England by the middle of July. I shall he glad
to see all my old friends ; they are not forgotten, though they
are out of sight. With the welcome I hope for from them,
and the presence of my good and loving wife, and darling
little one, I shall feel thflt all my trials and troubles have been
but slight, compared to the pleasures of a warm welcome
home again from friends and loved ones now so far away.
With good wishes for you, sir, and your readers for the new
year, believe me, fraternally yours, J. J. Morse.
Philadelphia, Pa., Dec. 23rd, 1874.
THE PHILADELPHIA “ KATIE KING.”
The alleged materialised spirit, “ Katie King,” exhibited in
Philadelphia by Mr. and Mrs. Holmes, professional American
mediums, is stated by the Philadelphia Press to be acknow¬
ledged by Mr. Robert Dale Owen and Dr. Child to be a gross
imposition. These mediums were in England on a short
visit, when the full-length spirit forms began to attract atten¬
tion, and on their return they produced something resembling
them, but on their own premises, and in peculiarly constructed
cabinets, instead of in the houses of strangers and after being
searched, as has been done with real mediums for these
manifestations over and over again, who, in addition, have
been tied and sealed, and have subjected themselves to severe
tests at the hands of men of education and science. The
worst part of the Philadelphia story is that, for a time, Mr.
Dale Owen and Dr. Child were deceived, but the best of us are
apt to make mistakes and the great work the former gentle¬
man has done for Spiritualism outweighs by far the temporary
effects of the error now under notice. The following account,
condensed from different numbers of the Philadelphia Press,
purports to be the true story of the Holmes’s Katie King:—
That “ Katie King,” as presented for the last year at the
Holmes’s seances in this city, was a being of flesh and blood,
has been ascertained beyond a doubt, but who she was, how
she was secreted in the houses, afterwards introduced into the
cabinet, and sb assisted as to leave it without being detected,
has as yet been more or less a mystery. ” Katie King,”
or rather the young woman who personated her, is a
widow, with a child and a mother depending upon her
for support. Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Holmes became ac¬
quainted with her at a boarding-house, where they lived for
some weeks subsequent to their advent in Philadelphia.
About the time the Holmeses took possession of No. 50, North
Ninth-street, “ Katie King ” (for reasons hereinafter to be
stated we will not publish her name) became unable to pay
her board, and was finally reduced to such an extremity, that
she was absolutely penniless and almost without clothing.
Finding that this was the case, her host sold what few effects
she had left, and turned the woman into the street. In this
condition she was promised assistance by Mr. and Mrs.
Holmes, provided she would enact the part of a materialised
spirit in their cabinet seances. Although the proposition was
revolting, she was forced to accept it, or see her child and
mother suffer from hunger.
The cabinet, which had been placed in one corner of the
second-story front room, with one side against a door which
opened into a bedchamber, was easily arranged so as to
admit of ingress from the bedroom. The boards were all fas¬
tened with screws, and battens were placed outside and inside
about two feet from the floor. It was an easy matter to take
out one of the boards, and put in its place a duplicate so
divided at the battens that the point of juncture could not be
seen. The upper part of this board was firmly secured, but
the lower portion was loosely fastened with two screws, while
the other screw-heads were “ dummies.” When it was thought
a strict examination of the cabinet would be made the divided
board could be taken out, and the original put back in its
place.
When the Katie King seances first began, the gentleman who
afterwards became so prominently connected with them, Dr.
Child, of this city, was permitted to examine every nook and
corner in the house. As he was for a time very sceptical on
the question of materialisation, the investigations were very
thoroughly conducted. The visitors would then be congre¬
gated in the front room with the cabinet, and the door would
be locked. “ Katie King ” would soon after enter the house
from the street, make her way to the bedroom, assume her
white dress, and with a small screw-driver take off the lower
portion of the divided board. These preparations could not
be heard on account of the singing and music-box noise,
which was continually kept up. To enter the cabinet was
then an easy task for Katie, and with a stool she could reach
the rather high aperture. The disappearing and reappearing
part of the phenomenon was accomplished by gradually lower¬
ing a black cloth over herself, and at the same time crouching
back into the corner. The semi-darkness of the room, com¬
bined with the complete blackness of the inside of the cabinet,
made this seeming impossible feat very simple. The levita¬
tion manifestation, or the suspension of her body in the air,
was done by means of the stool, covered with a black cloth.
As it was impossible to distinguish any colour but white
within the cabinet, the stool was, of course, invisible, and by
stepping upon it very deliberately, and gradually raising her¬
self, the young lady was enabled to present the appearance of
being lifted from and suspended above the floor. At the close
of the seance there was always a delay of about ten minutes
between the time of the last appearance of the alleged spirit
and the knocks, which signified that no more were coming.
During this time “Katie” would slip through the hole in
the cabinet, screw on the loosened board, and make her
escape. Had the cabinet been taken apart at such a time
the trick would have been discovered. It was taken to
pieces after a similar seance, but by some means the
Holmeses suspected that this would be done, and were pre¬
pared for it. A party of ten gathered in the room on this
occasion, and Mrs. Holmes complained that she was feeling so
unwell that her mediumistic power was very weak, conse-
squently it would be necessary to hold a dq.rk seance first.
This was consented to; the lights were extinguished, not only
in the room, but in the hall, and the dark seance began. As
the divided board had been taken from the cabinet it was im¬
possible for Katie to enter in the usual manner, and she con¬
sequently came in through the door. This she could do under
cover of the darkness, and as all hands were clasped, she safely
crossed the room during the ringing of bells and the twanging
of guitars and other accompaniments of dark seances. Once
within the cabinet, she had only to arrange her white dress,
put on a little extra powder, and she was ready to begin. A
lamp was then dimly lighted, and the usual manifestations
were gone through with. Had the seance closed in the ordi¬
nary manner, Katie would have been found in the cabinet, but
“ John King,” through Mr. Holmes, stated that if they would
turn out the lights again for a few moments, it might give him
strength to do some extra materialising. The lights were
accordingly extinguished, thus enabling “Katie King”'to
come out of the cabinet and leave the room by the hall door.
After “ Katie ” had made her escape, “ John King ” again
asked for light, and for several moments all waited patiently
for the manifestations promised. None came, however, as
Mr. “ King” explained that conditions were not right, and so
the light was turned on, and the seance closed.
The ten persons who had witnessed the manifestations then
took the cabinet to pieces, and as the original board had before
been returned to its place, they of course found “ no trap nor
trick of any kind.” Had the investigators on that evening
insisted on having but one dark seance, they would never have
signed the certificate which was there drawn up, for as the
cabinet was on that evening virtually without a trap, “ Katie
King ” having entered it through the door, under cover of
darkness, she could not have made her escape except 'during
the second dark seance, at the close of the evening’s perform¬
ance.. This was almost the only occasion on which a Holmes’s
entertainment began and ended with a dark seance, and the
reason why this change was made should, at that time, have
been more closely inquired into. It has been stated that for
a time the door leading from the front room into the hall was
always looked. As this created much suspicion, the mediums
finally consented to have it remain open until the manifestations
first appeared. Under such circumstances it became neces¬
sary to make a change in the manner of keeping “ Katie”
out of sight. The bolster on the bed was therefore so ar¬
ranged that “ Katie” could creep into it, and in this she
hid herself before the seance and after it was concluded.
The bedroom was many times examined after the change,
and the bed was also inspected, but no one ever thought of
looking into the bolster to find out what it was stuffed with.
“ Katie King ” during last summer, when these seances were
being given at No. 50, North Ninth-street, boarded with Mrs.
Holmes, and was at first suspected by Dr. Child, but on several
occasions he was requested by Mrs. Holmes to answer the
Jaf. 8, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
21
violent ringing of the door-bell immediately following the
close of the seance. He always found the suspected lady
waiting very impatiently to be let in, and she often complained
that, as she boarded with Mrs. Holmes, that lady had no right
to lock her out. The Doctor’s suspicions were soon quieted
by this ruse, and the young lady was seldom afterwards
thought of. During the heated term Mr. and Mrs. Holmes
left the city and travelled through the West, where they were
once exposed, but as the account was not clearly written the
effect was not very damaging. Upon the return of the
mediums to Philadelphia in the fall, Dr. Child was sent for by
Mrs. Holmes, and asked to assist them in finding a house.
The Doctor gladly complied with the request, as he was anxious
to have the cabinet placed in a room where, it could stand
near solid walls. He found one or two houses where the
front room would admit of this arrangement, but Mrs. Holmes
discovered some fault with them all, and finally decided upon
the house at 825, North Tenth-street. In the second-
story front room of this house the cabinet was placed
in such a position that it stood about eighteen inches
from a boarded-up window. As already described in the
press, this window was arranged in such a way that with the
sash taken out there was room for a person to stand between
the boards on the inside, and the shutters on the outside.
One of the boards was apparently fastened by screws, but they
were only “ dummies.” In reality it swung on pivots, and
was held in its place by a stout button on the inside. A board
in the back of the cabinet was similarly arranged. Before
the seances began “ Katie King ’’ took her position in the
window and fastened herself in. The space between the
cabinet and the wall was then concealed by a door which at
first glance appeared as part of the cabinet, a table covered
with musical instruments was shoved up against it, and the
guests, who were always received in a downstairs room, were in¬
vited to ascend. A dark seance always opened the entertain¬
ment, during which Katie would descend from her perch, and
making her way into the cabinet, take a position in the corner,
where she could not be seen when the -cabinet door was opened.
Mr. Holmes would then enter the cabinet, and between the two
the usual manifestations were produced. The numerous faces
shown were nothing but rubber masks, so made that they
could be blown up into different sizes, and at the same time
produce different appearances. Mr. Holmes could conceal
half-a-dozen such faces in his inside pocket.
At the Tenth-street house, Mr. and Mrs. Holmes were sup¬
posed to live alone, having only an old coloured woman as an
assistant. This “ auntie ” was quite dumb, and on several
occasions forgot herself, and set the table for three instead of
two, as the Holmeses usually partook of a light supper after the
evening’s performances. The dark circles given at 825, North
Tenth-street were often quite entertaining to lovers of the
mysterious; and as they performed almost all of the still un¬
explained tests given by the best mediums, it was less difficult
for them to avert suspicion than it would have been had they
confined themselves to Katie King. Their mediumistic powers
are highly attested, and those who are most familiar with
Spiritualism state that there is no doubt, but that Mr. and
Mrs. Holmes are really excellent mediums, who have been led
by cupidity to mix a great deal of trickery with their natural
powers.
How long the humbug would have prospered if the Holmeses
and their misguided assistant had not disagreed, it is impos¬
sible to say. “ Katie’s ” conscience, however, began to trouble
her greatly when she learned what an effect her performances
had created, and at last, feeling that she could no longer prac¬
tise the deception, she left Mrs. Holmes to her own devices.
For several weeks no Katie appeared, as the “ medium ” found
it a difficult task to secure a young woman similar in features
and form to the first confederate. One young lady, whose
appearance pleased her, was asked to play the part of Katie
King, but refused with horror. She afterwards related the
circumstance to a prominent Spiritualist, and the consequence
has been a complete exposure of the whole fraud.
Both Bobert Dale Owen and Dr. Child feel deeply humiliated
at having been so deceived, and more than that, lending their
influence to the support of what is now proved to be a trick,
and are doing all in their power to undo at least, part of the
harm. The doctor has bought from the publishers of his book
on “ John and Katie King ” every volume on hand, some
two hundred dollars’ worth, and has ordered its publication to
be discontinued. Mr. Holmes, who has been one of the chief
actors in the cabinet seances, was at one time the editor of a
Baptist religious journal in Georgia.
The Holmes seances have not yet closed, and the mediums
still persist in their assertion that they will yet show “ Katie
King ” under the most strict test conditions.
The mediums persist, in their assertion that they will soon
produce the veritable “ Katie King ” under strict test condi¬
tions ; that they have never been guilty of deception, but, on
the contrary, are the victims of a conspiracy, directed, not so
much against them, as against Spiritualism. In addition to
this, several prominent lawyers, who have carefully examined
all the evidence which has been adduced, have taken the first
steps towards bringing the case into court, with the avowed
intention of proving that the woman who pretends to have
been “ Katie King ’’ is only a clever blackmailer, who, having
failed to extort money from Dr. Child, has thrown herself upon
the public in the assumed character of a friendless, misguided
creature, who deeply repents her past transgressions, expect¬
ing thereby to gain not only the morbid sympathy of senti¬
mental Americans, but no little material profit. These gentle¬
men aver that, with a little time for preparation, they can
prove numerous alibis in the case, thus showing that while the
apparition was seen in the cabinet, the alleged “ Katie King ”
was in some other part of the city ; and, in one instance, in
another State. Among the points which will constitute the
line of defence, the following facts are admitted by both
parties : About the 12th or 13th of October of this year the
young woman, who has since stated that she is ” Katie King,”
called on Dr. Child at his residence in Bace-street. She told
him that she was greatly in need of money, and said that
there were good reasons why he ought to assist her, at the
same time insinuating that she could give the Doctor a great
deal of trouble, as she could tell some very unpleasant truths
about the “ Katie King ” seances. Dr. Child testifies to this
interview, and states that he regarded the proceeding as an
attempt at blackmailing, and refused to have anything to do
with the woman. As she left the office she encountered Mr.
Holmes, who had just called to see the Doctor on business.
Instead of greeting him as an acquaintance, she hurriedly
brushed past him, and quickly shut the front door behind her.
This action Dr. Child regarded as evidence that she was guilty
of a deliberate attempt to blackmail him or injure the mediums,
and on this account he did not allow her words to influence
him either one way or the other. About ten days after that
Dr. Child received a letter from the young woman, dated
October 19, and post-marked North Cambridge, Mass. In this
epistle, which is still in the Doctor’s hands, the writer asks
his forgiveness for saying what she did to him, and adding in
underscored words, “ I am not Katie King." She acknowledges
that she has been very wicked, and promises.to do better in
the future. She further says that she knows she is a good
medium, for “Katie King” frequently comes to her and promises
her that if she perseveres she [Katie] will soon be able to give
her good manifestations, and help her out of “ all her difficul¬
ties.” This letter is, without doubt, in the handwriting of the
young woman in question, and is, signed by the name she
bears. It is regarded by those who support the Holmeses as
proof positive that the writer attempted to blackmail Dr.
Child, and, afterwards becoming frightened, acknowledged
that she had told an untruth, and asked his forgiveness.
AN INTERESTING'MATERIALISATION SEANCE.
BY WILLIAM H. HAERISON.
Last Friday night a materialisation seance, through the
mediumship of Miss Showers, was held in a private residence
at the West End of London. Among the guests present were
Mrs. Boss-Church, Miss Boss-Church, Mr.Helmoore, a gentle¬
man from Manchester (author of Where Are the Dead?), and
two members of the Anthropological Institute, including
myself.
A cabinet was extemporised by two visitors present, the
recess formed by a bay window facing the street being utilised
for the purpose; there was a corresponding window belonging
to the room below, so the former was high above the level of
the ground outside. The Venetian blinds were drawn down,
and one large length of black cloth was fastened close over
them all round the recess, to shut out the light, but a little
light still came in from the top. Bed curtains drawn across
the front of the recess and pinned together formed the front
of the cabinet. The hands of Miss Showers were, at her
special desire, bound together with tape, and sealed with Mrs.
Boss-Church’s ring, and a shawl was examined and given to
her to keep herself warm, as the curtains intercepted the
warmth from the fire. There was no seat, and nothing what¬
ever in the cabinet but the shawl she took in with her.
22
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jaw. 8, 1875.
K After a time, Lenore, robed in white, came out as usual, and
in the course of the evening asked Mrs. Eoss-Church to
enter the cabinet, where Mrs. Eoss-Church testified, as she
has done on previous occasions, that she felt the medium in
the cabinet wrapped up in the shawl, and greatly reduced
in size. She felt her two legs where they entered her boots.
Lenore next asked me to go in, and directly the curtains
were opened I saw something large lying along the bottom
of the recess, for some stray light found its way in
through the curtains, and feebly illuminated a space about
a foot square at the centre of the bottom of the cabinet.
Lenore, whose few instructions I faithfully obeyed, led me
by the hand, knelt down by the side of the object, and
placed my hand on it; it was the shawl, and directly I
touched it something heavy inside moved under my hands,
like a person turning half over when asleep. Lenore said
“That’s Eosie” (Miss Showers). 1 said “Can you give me
her hand?” She felt for it, then as if suddenly remember¬
ing said “ Oh, it is not by her side; they have tied her hands
together, but feel how her heart beats,” and she placed my
hand on a part of the shawl under which something was
palpitating violently. Lenore’s hand was on the top of mine,
and I could see her kneeling by my side, as she was in white,
and in the illuminated part of the cabinet. I asked
her to seize my arm with her other hand, so that I
could see and feel both her hands. She grasped my
coat-sleeve with it, but I said, “No, please grasp my wrist,”
which she at once did, so that I not only saw but felt both her
warm hands, and that she was kneeling and bending like my¬
self. Then I made, in effect, the following statement to the
listeners outside the cabinet: “lam kneeling by the side of
Lenore, and can see and feel both her hands on the top of my
hand and wrist; underneath the shawl, right under my hand,
something large is palpitating violently, and I am not biolo-
gised.” It was not a mechanical kind of motion below my
hand ; it was irregular. Thus the sum and substance of my
testimony is that something large and living, not Lenore, was
wrapped up in that shawl, and that Lenore told me it was Miss
Showers. I did not see her face, which should have been in
that part of the cabinet in darkness, and on the other side of
Lenore, who told me to leave the cabinet, as I had been in it
as long as possible for a first visit, but that I should come in
again another time, and the spirits would gradually get used
to my influence. She held my hand down on the palpitating
object for a minute or more.
I may remark that the mental and othes condi¬
tions which influence all manifestations produce such
tangible, well-marked effects at materialisation seances that
these latter, apart from their intrinsic interest, are of
special value in elucidating the laws and conditions which
govern the whole range of spiritualistic phenomena. Thus,
it has been proved in The. Spiritualist that there is a con¬
necting link between materialisation manifestations, and the
writing mediumship of Messrs. Flint and Mansfield ; in short,
these materialisation seances not only throw light upon the
conditions influencing all the physical phenomena below
them, but throw some light upwards towards the writing,
clairvoyant, and trance manifestations, where the effects of
varying conditions are too intangible to be observed with
equal ease.
Wilmin Villa, Ohaucer-road, Herne-hill, S.E.,
Jan. 4th, 1874..
SPIRITUALISM IN NEWCASTLE.
The anniversary meeting of the Newcastle Society for Pro¬
moting Inquiry into Modern Spiritualism was held in the Old
Freemasons’ Hall, Newgate-street, a few evenings ago. Mr.
Armstrong, the president, occupied the chair. Mr. T. P.
Barkas delivered an address, in the course of which he said:
—On Friday evening, December 11, of the present year, I
attended by invitation a seance held in a private house in
Newcastle-on-Tyne. The room in which we assembled is Mj
feet long and 12 feet broad. One part of the room was set
apart as a screened recess. The length of the recess is only
8 feet 9 inches; the greatest width 4 feet at one end, and
15 inches at the other; a curved iron rod was fixed upon
staples at a height of 5^ feet from the floor, and on the rod
two dark curtains extending to the floor were suspended on
brass rings; the curtains on the rings moved freely on the
iron rod; chairs for the sitters were placed in a semicircle
opposite the curtained recess, at an average distance of 6j feet
from the curtain. The circle consisted of three ladies and
five gentlemen, and the medium was a stout matronly lady
about 40 years of age. The ladies and gentlemen sat on the
semicircle of chairs, and the medium reclined on the floor of
the recess. She lay on a rug with her head on two ordinary
pillows; she wore a dark dress, and after she lay down she
was covered with a shawl and top-coat. The medium having
lain down in the recess as described, and the company being
seated on the semicircle of chairs, the lamp light was turned
down, but sufficient light was left to enable us to see all pro¬
minent objects quite distinctly. After we had sat about ten
minutes, a tall white unveiled female figure appeared at the
central opening of the curtaips screening the recess, and,
after many presentations and withdrawals, finally left the
recess and walked across the floor to the gentleman on chair
No. 8, with whom she shook hands. This figure was tall and
graceful, and much slighter in form than the medium. About
| four minutes after she retired another female figure emerged
from the recess, moved about the room, and sat on a vacant
chair which stood near the curtains. She was stouter
and shorter than the previous visitor, and spoke to us
feebly when out of the recess. While this figure was sitting
on the chair, I was about to remark to the gentleman who
sat on my right, “ It would be a very desirable thing
to see the medium and spirit form at the same time.”'
I had said, “ It would be a very desirable,” when the figure
rose from her seat, and I did not finish the sentence.
She went directly to the curtains, drew them widely apart in
the centre, apparently for the purpose of showing us the
medium. I thanked her for her efforts, said she had antici¬
pated my request, and asked her to remove the curtain at her
left hand, which screened the medium’s head. She imme¬
diately drew away the curtain, and I and those who were pre¬
sent distinctly saw the medium reclining on the pillows. The
light was good, and I saw the medium and the “ spirit form ”
perfectly distinctly. This was to me a conclusive proof of the
double personality of the figure and the medium. The form
again left the recess, and kneeling beside the vacant chair,
wrote with a pencil on a piece of paper which I had previously
initialled, the following sentence—“ I shall give you a piece of
my garment the next— (here the writing became illegible)—
Emma.” She then moved gracefully about the room, her
raiment being very plentiful and white, and finally retired
within the curtains. In about four minutes another female
form appeared; she was slighter than the previous one and
taller. Her face was quite uncovered; she came from the cur¬
tains with considerable firmness, and walked or rather glided
to the lady on chair No. 6, who she indicated was her daughter,
and whom she patted and caressed. The form did not
resemble that of the medium. She then walked across the
floor and stood close before me on seat No. 2. She patted my
head and face with both her hands, gazed steadily into my
face, and as the lamp light was immediately behind me, it
shone directly on her face. Lsaw her face and features per¬
fectly distinctly, and could recognise them again with ease.
Had I been an artist, the face is impressed so vividly on my
mind, I could have sketched it. I noted distinctly that the
face was abroad oval, the features somewhat flat, and the nose
especially small, the eyes were large and dark, the eyebrows
well defined and dark, the skin a somewhat deep brown,
approaching mulatto. The expression of the face was fixed
and steady. I saw no play of the features, and the face did
not in the least resemble that of the mediqm. The hands that
stroked my face and head were warm and pleasant. I
could relate to you many marvellous phenomena that have oc¬
curred at various seances under test conditions, but I shall not
venture to trespass too long upon your patience. I may,
however, before offering a few brief remarks on “ How to
Investigate Spiritual Phenomena,” state very briefly the result
of the inquiries that were made by the “ Investigation Com¬
mittee,” formed in Newcastle-on-Tyne, for inquiries into the
alleged genuineness of these mysterious manifestations.
The committee consisted of eleven ladies and gentlemen,
only three of whom were believers in Spiritualism, and the
result of their investigations, extending over upwards of
twelve weeks, is,' that they have had satisfactory evidence
of the reality and genuineness of the phenomena, and that
the manifestations which occurred in their presence, were
not, and could not, either voluntarily or involuntarily, be
produced by the mediums. There is among the members of
the Investigation Committee a difference of opinion as to the
cause or causes of the phenomena, but as to the reality of
the phenomena, and the absence of all trick or collusion,
there is no difference of opinion. I am not at liberty to give
the names of the members of the committee of inquiry ;
Jan. 8, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
but were they given they would command the respect of the
entire district. The investigation of the phenomena of
modern Spiritualism should not be entered upon from mo¬
tives of mere curiosity, for the purpose of gratifying a
merely morbid desire for novelty, nor in the frivolous spirit in
which so many enter upon the inquiry.
Not long ago one of the leading, probably the leading
biologist of the day, after having being present at a seance,
said, in reply to a question that was put to him, “ No amount
of evidence would convince me of the genuineness of the
phenomena;” and yet these, and such as these, are the men
who desire to lead the scientific and religious thoughts of the
country. It is the old, old story of the blind leading the
blind ; “ God only can know the results of a determined and
stupid ignorance that refuses to be taught.” In conclusion,
and without venturing to express a positive opinion as to the
cause or causes of the extraordinary phenomena which from
time to time have been recorded in the columns of our local
press, and with which the magazines and newspapers of the
kingdom literally teem, I may state that whatever hypothesis
be eventually accepted as most satisfactory in explanation of
the wonderful occurrences, the spiritual hypothesis is the only
one that at present seems to cover the whole ground. Jf that
be the case, and if th.e spiritual theory be merely apparently
true, I may well ask in the words of Tennyson—
“ How pure at heart, and sound in head,
“With what divine affections bold.
Should be the man whose thoughts would hold
An hour’s communion with the dead.
They haunt the silence of the breast,
Imaginations calm and fair, ,
The memory like a cloudless-air,
The conscience as a sea'at rest.
But when the heart is full of din,
And doubt beside the portal waits.
They can but listen at the gates,
And hear the household jar within.”
HUMAN LEVITATION.
Thebe is a long, interesting, and very well written article in
last Friday’s number of the Quarterly Journal of Science, on
“Human Levitation,” from wbicb we quote the following
information:—
Till the last two centuries all persons known in Christendom
to be subjects of levitation were probably either burnt or
canonised, according to the ruling clerical view of their ortho¬
doxy or the reverse. The following is an attempt to collect
some of the chief examples not condemned, with the volume
and page of the Bolandists’ “Acta,” where particulars may
be found:—
EOETY LEVITATED PERSONS CANONISED OR BEATIFIED.
Name, Country, and Condition. Date of Life, f^nct Pages.
Andrew Salus, Scythian Slave   880-**- 946 May VI. 16*
Luke of Soterium, Greek Monk   890— 946 Feb. II. 85
Stephen I., King of Hungary  978—1038 Sept. I. 541
Ladislaus I., Ditto (h's grandson) ...1041—1096 June V. 318
Christina, Flemish Nun  1150—1220 July V. 656
St. Dominic, Italian Preacher  1170—1221 Aug. I. 405,573
Lutgard, Belgian Nun 1182—1246 June III. 238
Agnes of Bohemia, Princess  1205—1281 March I. 522
Humiliana of Florence, "Widow 1219—1246 May IV. 396
Jutta, Prussian Widow Hermit  1215—1264 May VII. 606
St. Bonaventure, Italian Cardinal 1221—1274 July HI. 827
St. Thomas Aquinas, Italian Friar ...1227—1274 March F. 670-1
Ambrose Sansedonius, Italian. Priestl220—1287 March III. 192
Peter Armengol, Spanish Priest ......1238—1304 Sept. I. 334
St. Albert, Sicilian Priest 1240—1306 Aug. II. 236
Princess Margaret of Hungary 1242-7-1270 Jan. II. 904
Robert of Salentum, Italian Abbot ...1273—1341 July IV. 503
Agnes of Mt. Politian, Italian Abbessl274—1317 April II. 794
Bartholus of Vado, Italian Hermit ... 1300 June II. 1007
Princess Elizabeth of Hungary 1297—1338 May II. 126
Catharine Columbina, Spanish Abbess 1387 July VII, 352
St. Vincent Ferrer, Span. Missionary 1359—1419 April I. 497
Coleta of Ghent, Flemish Abbess .1381—1447 March I. 559, 576
Jeremy of Panormo, Sicilian Friar ...138T—1452 March I. 297
St. Antonine, Archbishop of Florencel389—1459 May I. 335
St. Francis of Paola, Missionary  1440—15u7 April I. 117
Osanna of Mantua, Italian Nun 1450—1505 June III. 703,705
Bartholomew of Anghiera, Friar  1510 March II. 665
Oolumba of Bieti, Italian Nun  ’....1468—1501 May V. 332*-4*, 360*
Thomas, Archbishop of Valencia 1487—1555 Sept. V. 832,969
St. Ignatius Loyola, Spanish Soldier...1491—1556 July VII. 432
Peter of Alcantara, Spanish Friar 1499—1562 Oct. VIII. 672, 673, 678
St. Philip Neri, Italian Friar 1515—1595 May VI. 590
Salvator de HortS, Spanish Friar 1520—1567 March II. 679-80
St. Luis Bertrand. Spanish Missionaryl526—1581 Oct. V. 407,483
St. Theresa, Spanish Abbess ..." 1515—1582 Oct. VII. 399
John it Cruce, Spanish Priest 1542—1591 Oct. VII. 239
J. B. Piscator, Roman Professor ...... 1586 June IV.j 976
Joseph of Cupertino, Italian Friar ...1603—1663 Sept. V. 1020-2
Bonaventure of Potenza, Italian Friarl651—17H Oct. XII. 154,157-9
(Korresponlience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and itsreaders.]
A PUBLIC BUILDING FOR SPIRITUAL MEETINGS.
Sib,—It may be useful to draw attention to a practical
view in connection with the proposed place or building for
tbe National Association of Spiritualists. If the idea of
erecting a building for tbe purpose may seem at present too
sanguine, suggestions of means leading ultimately to such re¬
sult should be well considered, to guide us in selecting the
best possible chance offered. A hall for meetings, to accom¬
modate a couple of hundred people should stand foremost
in quest. True Spiritualists, who were convinced not ex¬
clusively by watching phenomena in experimental seances,
admit the influx of spiritual life in all ages and various
ways, therefore such life is not newly created by forming
circles, but only stimulated to renewed energy. In closely
studying great deeds of human intelligence, we often find the
key by calculating the combined effort of untiring industry
with concentrated attention towards one point; but if we turn
to another class of manifestations of the human mind,
especially in the domain of art, we soon find ourself cut off
from understanding the result by way of training—we feel
the impression of the presence of genius. Among the sister
arts, we may look upon music as the most spiritual in its
method of conveying sentiments and emotions, leading—when
purely given and received—to refined thoughts. Architecture
began by forming rudely out of the crust of earth structures of
symmetrical proportions; ornamentation led to the higher
branches of sculpture; further development produced the
art of painting in which combined forms and colours
represent life and ideas on the canvas; finally, the
waves of the air carry to our ear and heart the
more ethereal strains of music. The power of music is in¬
disputable in its real inspirations, but, alas! even here the
claws of gross materialism, impeding its advance, are sadly
perceptible. Fashion, sensualism, and vanity of conceited
virtuosi, too often more eager to shine in their own glory, than
to be the priests of a noble revelation, have more or less in¬
fluenced the present state of things, until even the dresses of
lady singers rival the splendour of the pieces to be executed.
Against such derogatory tendencies of the day the cultivation
of music in its purest style may particularly find a field in the
so-called “ chamber music,”'where vast numbers of precious
treasures lie overlooked, and may be turned to account when-
a central place for such concerts shall be at disposal. A
moderate sized hall (the most suitable) might be frequently
let to artists of that class, and the financial result greatly
assist in the process of self-support. The system of i star¬
ring” will not last for ever, and the time may come, when
people will gladly rush to the hall, to recreate themselves by
true inspirational compositions, as a relief from the more
worldly and tainted exhibitions. A hall well adapted for such
entertainments, at the proper intervals, adapted also to ex¬
hibitions of paintings, &c, would unite the demands of
fashion with those of higher aims; and if the hopes of the
great future progress of Spiritualism should prove true, the
final independence and success of a proposed building might
be within close reach. Christian Reimebs.
Ducie Avenue, Mancliester.
Sib,—After reading your notice in last week’s issue, I take
the liberty of writing a few lines, giving my opinion and
advice on the subject of “ Offices for the National Association
of Spiritualists.” In the first place, since the members are
few in number, I cannot see the necessity for premises at the
present time ; great expense must be incurred and very little
recompense obtained. The Association, being as yet in its
infancy, is not able to bear a drain so heavy, while the money
that would be absolutely wasted on the show of premises
might be put to many better purposes for the benefit of the
members of the Association. I maintain that if offices are
taken, the National Association must be borne down by the
weight of the burden. As a great many members reside in
the country, I do not even see the necessity at present for
starting a small reading-room. The Spiritual papers are
not so expensive as to be out of the reach of any who
may wish to obtain information.* Suggestions might be
* There are forty or fifty Spiritual periodicals published in different
parts of the world; the reading-room ought to be supplied with all the
daily papers and best periodical literature of the day, and have a library
attached; the public could be admitted at a small charge.—Eo.
24
THE SPIRITUALIST. Jan. 8, 1875.
made as to the surplus income of the Association being
placed to far better advantage than in sinking vast sums
in premises, such as, for instance, working more in har¬
mony with the local Associations, and rendering assist¬
ance and donations when required, which would be a means
of their becoming allied to the National Association, and of
the work spreading tenfold in all directions. Sunday and
occasional week-night services might be held in different
localities and halls, taken from time to time, as occasion may
require, at less expense, and at the same time the Association
would be moving on far safer ground, while the benefit derived
would in the end be infinitely greater. There being two
secretaries and an assistant secretary connected with the
National Association, advice and information can be readily
obtained gratis by the public without going to any offices or
rooms; and if it were more widely known that the secretaries
are instructed to give papers and other information, I have no
doubt the work would be extended, and be the means of
adding many to the Association. Many other suggestions
similar to the above might be made. I have given due con¬
sideration and devoted much time to this matter.
Organises.
Interesting seances are held on Sunday and other
evenings in the week at the residence of Mr. Thos. Wilks in
Dalston-lane, who is one of the oldest members of the Dalston
Association, and it is said that satisfactory tests of spirit
identity are frequently obtained. Might not Mr. Wilks in
future do well to publish any good seances he may have ?
Spiritualistic Soirees.—The Dalston Association of
Inquirers into Spiritualism after having been unusually quiet
for a longtime, is making exertions to get up a soiree on a large
scale. It will come off next Thursday evening, at the
Luxemburgh Hall, opposite the Dalston Junction station of
the North London Railway, so the hall is about seven minutes’
ride from Broad-street. Apparently it is to be a lively meet¬
ing, for in the advertisements it is called a soiree dansante;
doors open at six o’clock, dancing to commence at nine,
“ carriages to be ordered for one o’clock, a.m.” Early in the
evening tea and coffee will be served, and there will be some
speech-making on Spiritualistic subjects. Mrs. Tebb, Mr.
Coleman, and others have lent objects of interest for exhibi¬
tion. Further particulars will be found in an advertisement
in another page. Broad-street station is but a few minutes’
walk from the Moorgate-street station of the Metropolitan
Railway, the Luxemburgh Hall is therefore accessible without
difficulty from most parts of London, so it is to be hoped
there will be a large attendance. One of the Vice-Presidents
of the National Association has written to us expressing satis¬
faction at the good results of social-meetings like the one held
recently at the Co-operative Hall, and suggesting that the
members of the Council should ask each other to “ tea fights ”
in their own homes, to promote knowledge of each other, and
the freer interchange of ideas. The monthly soirees of the
National Association will begin on the third of February next.
The National Association oe Spiritualists.—Next
Monday evening an important meeting of the Council of the
National Association of Spiritualists will be held, at which it
is to be hoped that there will be a large attendance, as im¬
portant and interesting matters are to be brought forward.
Another large grant of money has been proffered, to further
the prize essay scheme originated by Mr. Martin R. Smith,
and the point has to be considered whether the prizes shall
take the form of gold medals, grants of money, certificates
handsomely executed and framed, or some other shape.
Among the vital financial questions to be considered is the
taking of premises, for the Association needs a home. A
small public hall is wanted badly, since large sums are now
spent annually in hiring halls at the West-end for Spiritualistic
meetings, and a place is needed where Spiritualists who have
time to spare can look in and meet each other at any time,
for at present there is no opportunity for anything of the
kind, except at the monthly soirees, which will begin next
February. A place is wanted in which to deposit the property
which will gradually accumulate in the hands of the Associa¬
tion, and it is desirable to have the whole time of a per¬
manent officer devoted to the interests of the organisa¬
tion. The point to be achieved is to get a hall or
premises, which can be so used as to be self-supporting, or
nearly so; there would evidently not be much difficulty in
doing this with a small hall; if a house only be taken it does
not seem to be so easy, but this point cannot well be considered
till the actual plans have been made known by the Offices Com’
mittee, which has doubtless had a great deal to do in corre¬
sponding with the owners and lessees of all the halls known to
Spiritualists, to ascertain whether they are obtainable, or it
would have made its plans known before. It is high time to
establish a central place of meeting in London worthy of the
movement, and to give facilities for meeting in a social manner
in large numbers, more than once a month. Provincial mem¬
bers would patronise any hotel recognised by the Association, so
if any central hotel has a large room or small hall with separate
entrance to the street, perhaps some mutually .convenient
arrangement might be made. Anybody having suggestions to
make about taking premises, had better write at once to Miss
Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, London, W.
MESSRS. B ASTI AN AND TAYLOR.
The following translation of a statement printed some weeks
ago in the Arnhem News, has been sent to us by a gentleman for
publication in the interests of the spiritual movement. Until the
other side is heard it should be remembered that this is an ex
parte statement, that the persons who were not too honourable
to break the conditions of the seance do not all testify to
having seen "Mr. Bastian with the guitar in his hand, that
four of them have not signed at all, that the report contains
no evidence that their statement about tjhe “ spring puppet”
is not a wanton invention, and that the mediums came to
England highly recommended by Mr. S. S. Jones, of Chicago,
who is very sharp in testing manifestations, and has known
these two mediums for a long time. Opinions should be sus¬
pended until the other side has been heard. Here is the
statement:—
Yesterday evening we were present at a seance, at which Messrs. Bastian
and Taylor were to show us the “spirits.” The guests were thirteen in
number, besides the “mental clairvoyant medium," who formed the com¬
pany into a circle, and the “ physical medium,” who sat on a chair in the
middle. The “ spirits.” did their usual work; we felt hand touches; there
was talking through a trumpet; a spring puppet came down upon our
knees; above all “Johnny” and “G-eorgy” (so were our spirits called),
played to us delightfully on the guitar. In the midst of all this, Mr. Taylor,
who did nothing but tell us he saw spirits, and was held fast by the wrists,
passed -something he held in his hands, to Mr. Bastian. At a given
moment while the guitar was heard thrumming over our heads, at a signal
from one of us, a galvanic stream was sent from an adjoining room, along
a platinum wire in the room where we were sitting, and igniting some
cotton wool soaked in petroleum in which camphor had been dissolved,
gave out a flame which lighted up the apartment. All this was the work
of a quarter of a second at most; and what say the undersigned ? The
“ physical medium,” who had the clappers in his hands, and was sitting on
the extreme edge of his chair, raised the guitar in his right hand, and let
the instrument fall before our eyes on the head of one of us, while he
gazed with terror and evident anxiety at the flame which had brought
everything to light. The “mental medium” could not utter a word; he
looked annoyed and murmured something about blackguards. Of the
undersigned, the five first were aware of the moment at which the guitar
fell from the hands of the supposed spirit, the others, that he withdrew his
outstretched hand and evinced great anxiety, which possibly explains the
fact of his holding the clappers in his hands. One of us put the question
to Bastian, whether those present had a right to acknowledge what they
had seen with their own eyes; the medium was silent. In another
moment the mediums had disappeared; their farewell was, that they
wished the head of the gentleman, on which the instrument fell (who was
only slightly hurt), ‘1 had been split." We inform you of these strange things
for the benefit of those who believe in the Spiritism of these gentlemen. <
We offer our thanks to Mr. Lineker, Secretary of the High Middle-class
School, for the patience with which he waited from eight to half-past nine
o’clock for the signal from the first of the undersigned:—
J. Th. Oattie
J. L. A. J. Sprenger
J. J. WlLDSCHUT
J. O..H. Heldring
H. H. Van Cappelle
Z. Van der Vegte
Dr. J. H. Zilver Rgpb
H. Prins
J. F. Van Haneu.
December 10th.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
E. "W. B.—The great length of your communications necessarily
. causes delay, although they contain the results of much hard¬
working research and study. Two short communications are
always preferable to one long one.
Letters intended either for the editor, publisher, or advertising
agent should be properly addressed, since the said persons reside
many miles apart, so letters sent to the editor on commercial
matters result in much delay. Friends are requested to address
letters according to the regulations published on the first column
of the leading article page.
THE QUARTERLY JOURNAlToE SCIENCeT
’ Edited by WILLIAM CROOKES, F.R.S., &c.
No. XLV., January, 1875, price 5s.
Contents.
I. The Illuminated Disc of the Moon.
II. Railway Accidents.
III. Human Levitation; illustrating certain Historical Miracles.
IV. The Boundary between Man and the Lower Animals.
V. Science—Her Claims, Position, and Duties.
VI. The Spectroscope in its Application to Mint Assaying.
London: 3, Horse Shoe-court, Ludgate-hill, E.C,
Jan. 8, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST.
nr
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND GLAIRYOYANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America, can he consulted on either
Medical or Business Affairs connected with the Living and Dead. Hours
12 to 8 (Sundays excepted.) Terms, One Guinea. Address, 21, Princes-
street, Hanover-square, two doors from Regent-street.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 j>.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
6s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium & medical
MESMERIST,) will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing, Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (30 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS from Two till Five o’clock, at his
residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington, W. Consulta¬
tions by lettqr.
'R. W. G. SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds’-bush
W. Please write.
'ISS GODFREY, CURATIYE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
T Y. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
Py . Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters.
'R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return in
or about the month of June next. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
DR. M’LEOD AND SIBYL—MAGNETIC HEALING
AND CLAIRVOYANCE—Are prepared to receive engagements,
as above. References kindly permitted to patients and others who have
been benefltted. By letters only, under cover, to W. N. Armfield, Esq., 15,
Lower Belgrave-street, Pimlico. S.W. Dr. M’Leod is also prepared to re¬
ceive engagements to lecture. Terms 2 guineas.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
MESSRS. PECK AND SADLER, Trance and Physical
Mediums, are open to Engagements for Private or Public Seances.
Terms as per arrangements. Messrs. Peck and Sadler also give Public
Seances every Monday^ Tuesday, and Saturday Evenings, at Eight o’clock,
Tickets Is. each (limited number only), and Thursday evenings at'Eight
o’clock, Tickets 2s. 6d. each. Tickets to be had at 157, Bute-road. Seances
at 126, Cowbridge-road, Canton, Cardiff.
'PHOTOGRAPHIC COPIES OF THE ILLUMINATED
JL ADDRESS recently presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain
to Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
The progressiye spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tyerman.
Price Threepence. Tobehadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers.
A USTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
-CA_ W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
all parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
COATES’ BAZAAR, 126, West Derby-road, Liverpool,
Mrs. Coates, begs to inform her friends and customers that her well-
selected stock of Christmas and New Year’s Stationery, Toys and Fancy
Goods have now arrived, and invites inspection. Mrs. C. has no hesitation
in stating that for price and value, her Christmas, New Year’s and
Birthday Cards, are unequalled. White and fancy coloured tissue paper
from 4d.; Playing Cards from SJd..per packet; also, a large assortment of
English, French, and German toys to choose from at equally reasonable
prices.
Depot for the sale of progressive literature. Estimates given for Printing,
Bookbinding, etc.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
(ESTABLISHED 1878.)
Vice-Presidents.
The Countess of Caithness, Stagenhoe-park, Hertfordshire.
Calder, Alexander, The Elms, Putney-hill, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bemard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon. N.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Makdougall Gregory, Mrs., 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W.
Jencken, H. D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, Temple,E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-squar§, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, S. T., M.D., Douglas House, Alexandra-road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, J., Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thornham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward, T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh Park-road, Blackheath. S.E.
Davies, Rev. C.Maurice, D.D, 44,Netherwood-rd., West Kensingtop-pk., W.
Dawe, N. F., Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendo ■ Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, Richard, 34. Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fifz-Gerald, Desmond, G., M.S. Tel.E, 6, Loughborough-road North, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton, S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, York Hill Farm, Loughton, Essex.
Gale, R., 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Glynes, Webster, F.L.A., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C.
Harper, Robert, 55, Castle-street, Oxford-street.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Humphrys, H. T. 4, Trafalgar-square, Brompton, S.W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, 64, Seymour-street, Hyde-park, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Kislihgbury, Miss, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W«
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Mawson, W. B., 1, King’s-square, Goswell-road, E.O
Meers, W. D., 75, Fairfax-road, St. John’s-wood.
Noyes, T. Herbert, jun., J.P., Olub-chambers, Regent street.
Regan, James, 4, Stanley-villas, Northcote-road, New Wandsworth.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 29, Dalyell-road, Stockwell, S.W.
i Sexton, George, M.A.,M.D., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road/^OldKent-rd., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs. Frederica, Hazel Down, Teignmouth.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Holder’s-hill, Hendon, N.W.
: Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Tietkens, E. A., 18, Oakley-square, N.W.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon.
Honorary Secretaries.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. (Home Corres¬
pondence.)
Miss Kislingbury, 93, Clarendon-road, Notting-hill, W. (Foreign Corres¬
pondence.)
Assistant Secretary (pro tem.).
Mr. John W. Haxby, 8, Sandall-road, Camden-town, London, N.W.
Hon. or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.I.M. I’Empereur de Russia, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pasth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, Styria, via Gratz, Austria.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S., America.
A. J. Riko, Esq., 71, Molenstraat, the Hague, Holland.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, Boston, U.S.
J. M Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, New Jersey, U.S.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, Editor (Progressive Spiritualist), Melbourne, Australia
Mrs 'Cora L. V. Tappan, New YorK, U.S., America.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Babco Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
C. C mstant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Berne, Switzerland
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 3.556, Boston, U.S. A.
W Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell*
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Generltl Don Joaquin Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 52, Rue de Rome, Paris
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
M, Edouard Buguet, 5, Boulevard, Montmartre, Paris.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme G. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris,
Gr. O. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Leipsic
, Dr. Franz Hoffmann, WUrzburg, Bavaria.j
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 8, 1875,
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because witbinthe last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H. Q-. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., Q-. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., O.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Bev. C. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles B. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.B.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs.Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Bobert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.B.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Bobert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Beed, Esq.; 0. Bussell Eoberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volekman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston,'Esq., Solicitor; Alfred E. Wallace, Esq., F.B.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other.things this Committee reported:—
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls or the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
12. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind; or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’  
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
sitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
hall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
ouch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do;
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer,.then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with ho strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PEIOE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributers to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection wilh their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.B.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred B. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Count de Medina
Pomar; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Bobert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Islam, Bart.; Mrs. Boss-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Bussian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H.
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood;' Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe ;
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Bev, 0. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.B.I., Barris-
ter-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. E. L. S. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
IVIartheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W.Lindesay Bichardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
THE WONDER OF THE AGE. JUST ISSUED.
mHE TWO DISCOYERIES, OR KEY TO PINE’S
JL SPIBITUAL TELEGBAPH.
This Key not only unlocks the abstruse labyrinths of Mathematical
Science, but enables every person, who values the privilege, to converse as
freely in domestic retirement with friends in spirit life, as when they were
on earth; and contains a series of communications of the most intense
interest, received by this new Invention, with an engraving of the
instrument.
BY CLEMENT PINE.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria Lane, and Stationers’ Hall
court, E.C.
Also published by the Author at Bridgewater. To be had of all Booksellers.
In substantial paper covers, 152 pp., Svo. Price Is. postage 2d. Stereo¬
typed and copyright secured.
THE SPIBITUAL DEPABTMENT contains the . confessions and
conditions of eight spirits, well known to the Author.in Earth-life, who had
deviated from the path of duty; also _the experiences of as many more
spirits well known to him, who had performed their duty on earth, and
experienced a happy entrance into the spirit realm. The conditions of
spiritual existence, even their divine unions in marriage, are completely
exemplified by this new mode.
The mathematieal discovery increases the accuracy of astronomical
observations, tenfold, by a process so simple as to suit the public
schools.
Beady by January 1st, 1875. Suitable for a New-Year’s Gift Book. A new
work on
Spiritualism, science, and Christianity;
showing their Harmony and Belationship, and will be specially
adapted for circulation amongst members of Christian Churches. It will
also be essentially a guide-book for enquirers, and will treat of the fol¬
lowing topics relative to the subject, in a scientific manner:—Spirit Circles,
Mediumship, Physical Manifestations, Test Mediumship, Healing Mediums,
Speaking and Writing Mediumship, Moral Influence of Mediumship, Dan¬
gers of Modiumship, Obsession, Identity of Spirits, Good and Bad Spirits,
Contradictions of Spirits, the Ultimate of Spiritualism, and many other
points of interest both to Spiritualists and Enquirers. Published price,
3s. fid.; to Subscribers, 2s.; or>12 Copies for £1 Is.
All orders to be sent, with remittance, address to Georqh Farmer, 4,
Kingsgate-street, Holbom, London, W. C.
HE CRUSADE : A Popular and High-class Journal:
Devoted to the Promotion of the Great Temperance Eeform in all
its Branches. Price One Penny. Two copies by post, 2£d. Published on
the 15th of each month, by the Editor, at The Holmes, Betchworth, near
Eeigate, and by Abel Heywood and Son, Manchester, and 4, Catherine-
street, London.
Published on the First of each Month. Price Twopence.
THE CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST,
EDITED BY GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., L.L.D.
Honorary and corresponding Fellow of the Royal Italian Academy of Science, dec
Each number contains inter alia—
An Oration, by the Editor. Original Articles on-some Phase of Spiritual¬
ism. Leaves from the Editor’s Note Book. Beports of Lectures, Meetings,
Seances. Beviews of New Books and Publications. Spiritual News, Poetry,
Correspondence, &c. *
Published by F. Arnold, 86, Fleet-street, London, E.C.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Bents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lano London E.C.
