[Registered as a Newspaper
Cjj.e Utbspa^r rcmmfhb ioitjj Spinteaiism in dnat ^niiiin*
No. 178. (Vol. YIIL—No. 8.) LONDON S FRIDA-Yj JANUAHY 21; 1876. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
arontents.
Spirit Teachings. No. XLVII  25
Thoughts on the Mediumship of Indian Fakirs. By Dr.
Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Philosophy,
Bernet   ... ...     26
Spiritualism at Home      ... 27
Psychological Experiences... ... ...    ...    28
Correspondence:—Private Seances in Manchester—Elemen¬
tary Spirits—Spiritualistic Winter Meetings; Experi¬
ments in Mesmerism—The Harrison Testimonial ... 29
Indian Jugglers    ... 29
Spiritualism in Leigh         ... ... 29
Systematic Appearance of Recognisable Spirits  ... 30
The Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism :—Occult Psychological Phenomena—Cases of
Trance and Abnormal Sleep—The Burning of an En¬
tranced Person—Danger of Premature Interment of
Entranced Individuals — Voluntary Trances—The
Temporary Interment of Entranced Indian Fakirs—
The Condition of the Mind During Entrancement—
Psychometry—Prevision   80
Moral Divisions among American Spiritualists. By
Eugene Crowell, M.D.      33
Provincial News ‘.—Liverpool, Annual Soiree of the Liver¬
pool Psychological Society; Sunday Services—Bir¬
mingham, A Scene at the Athenaeum      35
Answers to Correspondents   36
ParagraphsCheating the Dead, 28; Spiritualism in
South Africa, 32; An Amiable Fiend   36
Cfr* spiritualist JUtospprra
Established in 1869.
pHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS :-Half-a-
crown for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or
figures count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five
Shillings per inch. Reduced terms for extended periods.
“ The Spiritualist ” is a very good medium for advertisements,
because it circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to
reach, and an advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of
others. Moreover, the paper is not usually torn up when read, but
preserved for binding.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this
newspaper, to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street,
London; and orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the
office not later than by the first post on the previous Wednesday
morning. All communications for the Literary Department should
be addressed to the Editor.
No notice is taken of orders received for papers unaccompanied by
a remittance. “ The Spiritualist" will be posted for one year, post
tree, to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the
annual subscription of 10s. lOd.
Editor's Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London,
W.C City Publishing Office, E. W. Allen's, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
London, E.C.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29
and 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds
Stocks Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on
Saturdays from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, & GENERAL OUTFITTER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT'S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including
hats, shirts, and umbrellas.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT¬
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s.
London:—Simbkin, Marshall & Co.
Will shortly be published,
DR. MONCK’S ALMANACK and TRUTH-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.” Over forty closely printed pages.
Price 3d. Contains original articles on “Scientific Spiritual¬
ism," “Cui Bono,” “The Healing Power,” “Rules for the
Spirit-circle,” &c., &c., by S. O. Hall, Dr. W. Hitchman,
“Fritz,” T. P. Bark as, &c. Will be found very useful among
Sceptics and Investigators. Quantities supplied to societios or
for free distribution at a great reduction. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Address, Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol.
Agents wanted.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.—A scientifically accurate
description of manifestations recently produced by
spirits, and simultaneously witnessed by the Author and other
observers in London. By William H. Harrison. Limp cloth,
red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.—38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.O.; and E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, Pater¬
noster-row, E.O.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psyoho-
logiquos, fondh par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the Sociiti
Anonyms, 7, Rue do Lille, Paris. Post Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
SPIRITUAL BAZAAR IN BIRMINGHAM.
SPIRITUALISTIC PROPAGANDA.
The society of spiritualists,
operating at the Atheneeum, Temple-street, Birmingham,
purposes holding a small Bazaar, or Sale of Useful and Fancy
Articles, at the Athenmum, on Monday, January 24th, to open
at Three o'clock p.m., and to conclude with a Concert and
Miscellaneous Entertainment, commencing at Eight p.m. This
Entertainment will be of a superior character, two or three
professional singers having kindly promised their services.
The proceeds of the Bazaar and Entertainment are intended
to form the nucleus of a fund for Building a Lecture Hail and
Spiritual Lyceum; said fund to be increased by Entertain¬
ments, Seances, and otherwise, during the next two years.
Any contributions of money or goods for the Bazaar will be
thankfully received by either of the following ladies:—Mrs.
Groom, 166, St. Vincent-street; Mm. Foley, 288, Icknield-
street, .<West; Mrs. Harper, Soho-hill, Hinds worth; Mrs.
Sunderland, 67, Bull-street; Mrs. Hill, 224, Bristol-street; Mrs.
Starling, 160, Lozells-road, Handsworth. Robert Harper
(Soho-hill); Treasurer.
PRIMITIVE CHRISTIAN ITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
The Second Volume of The Identity of Primitive
Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
This Octavo Volume, handsomely printed and bound in cloth,
completes the work.
CONTENTS.
I.—Spirit Writing.
II.—Levitation and Conveyance by Spirit-power.
III. —Insensibility to Fire.
IV.—Clairvoyance and Somnambulism.
V.—Clairaudience.
VI.—Dreams and Visions.
VII.—Trance and Ecstacy.
VI il.—Holy Ghost.
IX.—Heresies and Cot tontions.
X.—Prayer.
XL—The Ministry of Angels.
XII.—Death.
XIII.—The Spirit-World.
XIV.—Spiritualism and the Church.
XV,—Spiritualism and Science.
XVI.—Conclusion.
The above work has just betn Issued in America, and copies
may be had in a week or two, price 10s. 6d. each, at The
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street,
London, W.O.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
'VTOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the next
_Lv Ordinary Half-Yearly General Meeting of this Asso¬
ciation will be holden at the Association’s Rooms on Thursday,
the 27th January, 1876, at 8 o’clock in the evening precisely ;
when the Report of the Council and Balance-Sheet for the
Hafl-Year ended 81st December, 1875, with a Resolution
for authorising an application for admission of the Association
into alliance with the “ British National Association of
Spiritualists,” will be submitted to the Members for adoption;
Officers for the current half-year will be elected; and motions,
in respect of which notice in writing has been given to the
undersigned on or before Thursday, 20th January, will be
discussed. THOMAS BLYTON,
Hon, Secretary and Treasurer.
Rooms—74, NAVARINO-ROAD, DALSTON, E.
1315 January, 1876.
ANNALI DELLO 8P1RITISMO IN ITALIA.
- —Rivista Psicologica di Niceford Filalete. Published
on the 15th of every month, at Turin, Tip. Baglione, via
Bogino, No. 23.    '  
E MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, pub¬
lished on the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue
de la Cathddrale, Lifege, Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
mHE SPIRITUA L SCIENTIST, of Boston,
JL U.S., early in- January, commenced the publication
of a translation of the works of H. Comelius Agrippa, and it
is devoting considerable space to Occult Philosophy. Subs¬
criptions, 13s. per annum, including postage, from America.
Money orders to be made payable to J, Selwood, 38, Great
Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
THE BANNER OF LIGHTs The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world! Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department,
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritna),
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department;
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c^ Ac. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38, Great Ruasell-street, London, W.O. 
Published on the first of each month. Price Sixpence.
The spiritual magazine, edited by
GEORGE SEXTON, LL.D., etc. This Magazine is the
oldest of the periodicals devoted to the canse of Spiritualism,
having now been in existence for upwards of fifteen years.
It has from the first taken a very high stand in the literature
of the movement, having been contributed to by men of the
greatest literary ability, and contained only such articles as
were likely to have a permanent interest.
London: Smart and Allen, London-house-yard, Paternoster-
row,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
AGENDA FOR JANUARY.
Monday, 3rd.—Offices and Library Committee, at 6 p.m.
Wednesday, 6th.—Dalston Society’s Soiree Damante. at
Cavendish Rooms, Mortimev-street. The
soiree of the B N. A. S., usually held on- the
first Wednesday in the month, is therefore
postponed tiil the second Wednesday.
Monday, 10th.-—Lecture and I -iscussion Oommitteeat 6p.m.
Tuesday, llth.—Prize Essay Committee at 5.30.
„ „ Finance Committee at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting at 6.30 p.m.
Wednesday, 12th.—Soibbe at 6.30 p.m. Music, Conversation
and Refreshments. Open to Members and
Friends; admission Is.
Friday, 14th.—Seance for Enquirers, at 7.30 p.m. Mr. C
E. Williams, Medium.
Monday, 17th.—Soiree Committee at 6 p.m.
Tuesday, 18th.—Seance Committee at 6 p.m.
., ,, Provincial Societies Committee at 7 p.m.
Monday, 24th.—Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m. Free to
Members and Subscribers.
Members of Committees are requested to attend the meetings
mentioned in the above list, without further notice. They
will be further advised of any Special Meetings which it may
be necessary to convene during the month.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
6, Loughborough Road North.
Tuesday, 4th.—Council Meeting at 8 p.m.
Wednesday, 12th.—Discussion Meeting at 8 p.m.
LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Friday, 14th.—Annual Soiree at the Assembly Rooms,
Islington. Chairat 8 o’clock. Admission Is.
Every Sunday.—Public Meetings at the Islington Assembly
Rooms, at 3 and 7 p.m. Trance Mediums
from all parts of England.
COMMITTEES OF THE BRITISH NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
Offices and Library Committee:
Mb. Thos. Evbbitt, Chairman.
Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. Kislingbury, Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr.
E. T. Bennett, Mr. J. Freeman.
Soiree Committee:
Mb. E. Dawson posers, Chairman.
Mrs. Everitt, Mrs. Mai thy, Mrs. Kislingbury, Mrs. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, Miss H. Withall. Mr. Thos. Everitt, Mr. J.
Freeman.
Provincial Societies Committee:
Mb. H. Withall, Chairman.
Mr. E. Dawson Rogers, Mr. Algernon Joy, Mr. E. T. Bennett,
Mr. R. Pearce, Mr. J. J. Morse.
Lecture and Discussion Committee:
Mb Geo. Kins, Chairman.
Mr. Martin R. Smith. Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald, Mr. H. T.
Humphreys, Mr. E. P. Ashton,
Seance Committee:
Mb. E. Dawson Rogebs, Chairman. x
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. T. Everitt, Mr. Desmond Fitz¬
Gerald, Mr. S. Chinnery, Mr. Keningale Cook.
Finance Committee:
Mb. Mobell Theobald, Chairman.'
Mr. Martin R. Smith, Mr. Alex. Calder, Mr. Geo. King.
BRITISH
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
WINTER MEETINGS.
A continuation of these meetings will be held at the Rooms
of the Association for reading and discussing papers on
Spiritualism and kindred topics.. They will recommence on
Monday, January 24th at 7,30 o’clock, and will be held fort¬
nightly until the end of April. Friends having papers to
communicate are requested to send them at an early date to
the Secretary, at 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W G.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON,
HE COMMITTEE has much pleasure in
announcing that the PRESENTATION of the TESTI¬
MONIAL to Mr. W. H. HARRISON will take place at a public
Soiree to be held in the Cavendish Rooms, 71, Mortimer Street,
on Wednesday, February 2nd. Tickets to be had oh
application to Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russeil-street, W.O.
price Is. 6d. The chair will be taken by Mr. Martin R. Smith.
East London spiritual meetings.—
LECTURES giving information about Spiritualism are
delivered every Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman's
Lecture Rooms, 15, St. Peter's-road, Mile-end. Inspirational
addresses every Sunday evening, at Seven o'clock. Admission
Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.  
AS I am compiling a work of Psychological
importance, I would he exceedingly grateful to Buy
one who will furnish me. with well attested Facts of Mania
of any description atising from and distinctly traceable to
Spiritualism. I also wish for written or piinted cases of
Imposture in connection with the aftme object as regards
public or private mediums. In this momentous and most ;
important undertaking, I ask the assistance of every honest
Investigator and Tnuhseeker. In_ any instance where books
or pamphlets treating this subject are forwarded to me, I will
readily pay the market value of such. All letters, manuscripts,
books or pamphlets, to be addressed to me, “ D. D. Home,
Nice, France, Poste Resiante," till May Itt, and after this date
to “Parifl, France, Paste Restante.’’ D. D. Home;
Nice, January 9th, 1876.
11
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan, 21, 1876,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Caldcr, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Uronipton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everltt, Thomas, Lilian-yilla, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex,
N.W.
Fltz-Gerald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M., M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hlU, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.B.C.S., 29, Erskiue-streat, Islington-sq.,
Liverpool.
Hollywood, Mrs., 52, Warwlck-square, S.W.
Jeucken, Henry H., M.K.I., Barrlster-at-Law, Goldsmith-build¬
ings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 18, Alexandra-
road, Finchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, AVason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., I, King Edward-st., Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Rcigate.
Binney, F. A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos., 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 38, Great Hussell-street, Bloomsbury.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-rohd, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman-chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., Ijynwood, Southern-hill, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lillan-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middle¬
sex, N.W.
Fitton, R , 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6 Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull,
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. 1'., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E. .
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isltam, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall. Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt.,1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 4, Abbey-gardens, St. Jolm’s-wood, N.W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C.T., M.R.C.S., 19, Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent's
Park., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, 8,'Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Sirs.E.Dawson, Rose-villa, Church-end, Fincliley, N,
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Tral'algar-road, Old Kent-
road, S E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House,IWoolwich-common.
Showers, Sirs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G.N., Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Vcrsailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margarefs-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, R. M„ M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall
Mall, S W., and 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman,:: Mrs,, 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. Johu’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withal!, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin E. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 88, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Camp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Russie, Nieder Walluf
on the Rhine, near Wiesbaden.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Rassim Pacha a Bahdje Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Rue de Trevise, Paris.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., Kornerstrasse, 2c, Leipsic, Germany.
General Don Joaquim Bassols a Maranosa, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmield, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq.i Hammouton, Atlantic Co„NewJersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 206, West 88th Street, New York,
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq.. Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant (late of Smyrna), 4, Via Morone, Milan, Italy.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor G. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse, 35, Gartenhaus,
Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-stroet, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 2,985, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq.,M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
it, Groweii, Esq., M.D., 196, CUntou-aycnue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A,
M. F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.O.A..
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 18, Rue d’Acnieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chause St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, II, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test, Esq., M.D., Union Springs, CayugaCo., New York, U.S.A.
Le Comte die Bullet, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 10, Rue Kepler, Paris.
Isaac B. Rich, ESq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlle. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waltzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Dr. R. Haliock, 46, Heroford-road, Bayswater, W.
Mrs. Haliock, 46, Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Signor Damiaui, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Mr. Lewis
Roberts, 68, Oxford-street, Liverpool.
L’ Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-road, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka Josefstadt. Erzherzog, Alcxander-gasse, 23,
Buda-Pesth. Hungary,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The British Nationai Association of Spiritualists is formed
to unite Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid
and benefit; to aid students and inquirers in their researches, by
placing at their disposal the means of systematic investigation into
the facts and phenomena, .called Spiritual or Psychic; to make
known the positive results arrived at by careful research; and to
direct attention to the beneficial influence which those results are
calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual con¬
duct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class, whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and ail inquirers
into psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in
the year 1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liver¬
pool, at which all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the
Spiritualists of the chief towns in the United Kingdom, were re¬
presented. The amount of the annual subscription to the National
Association is optional, with a minimum of five shillings a year.
Each member has a single vote at the general meetings, and is
eligible for election to all offices.
Friends wishing to join the Association, and Local Societies wish¬
ing to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss
Kisliugbury, Resident Secretary, at the offices of the Association. 38,
Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.. of whom copies of the Con¬
stitution and Rules may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM & LIBRARY
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
ARE open, to the public. Newspapers and
periodicals connected with Spiritualism, from all
parts of the world, and various high-class journals, are regu¬
larly supplied. The library contains, in addition to the best
writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, speculative, and
scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes
membership; Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d.
To non-members, annual tickets, 80s,; Quarterly, 10b. ;
Monthly, 5s.
A Seance room can he engaged under special arrangements,
to be learned from the Secretary.
Open from 10,30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on
Saturdays.
British national association of
SPIRITUALISTS. TRANCE PAINTING S.—Several
small oil-paintings, in gilt frames, executed in the trance by
the celebrated medium, David Duguid, of Glasgow, and re¬
presenting Scotch scenery, are now ON SALE at 38, Great
Russeli-street, at greatly reduced prices, varying from 20s. to
35s. Application to be made to the secretary, 38, Great Rnssetl-
street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
British national association of
SPIRITUALISTS. FOR SALE.—A variety of Musical
Boxes of superior quality, to be sold for the benefit of the
Funds of the Association. In good order, containing eight
airs each. Maker, Nicole, Geneva. Price, £S 6s. The style
of box and selection of music at the choice of the purchaser.
Apply to the secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
W.C.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1876.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—Mr. Ainsworth.
Secretary.—Mr. Lewis Roberts, 68, Oxford Street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Knox.
Committee of Management.—Mr. J. Smith, Mr. James Monk,
Mr. J. Chapman, Mr G. Brown, Mr. J. Haslam, Mr. Jones,
Mr. William Meredith, Mr. Ainsworth, Mrs. Ainsworth, Miss
Hilton, and Miss Dickson.
Trustees.—James Wason, Esq., Mr. John Lamont, Mr. Joseph
Shepherd,
Auditors.—Hx. P. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of tbis Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of pahlic
instruction, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
February, 1873,
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS,
MEDIUM,
Is at home dally, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 6 p.m
Private Seances attended at the houses of investigators.
Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Conduit-street, on Monday and
Thursday evenings ; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists
only; at 8 o’clock each evening.
Address as abova.
Mrs. woodforde, trance medium
AND MEDICAL MESMERIST, will give Sittings for
Development under Spirit Control in Writing, Drawing Clair¬
voyance, or any form of Mediumship. Disorderly Influences
removed. French spoken. At home Mondays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended. Ad¬
dress, 10, New Ormond-street, Bloomsbury.
PROFESSOR REGAN, PSYCHOPATHIC
HEALER, wishes to make known, by desire of his
Spirit Physicians, who cure through him, in his normal
state, that having been developed by them into a powerful
healing medium, and at the same time, by a course of deep
study, acquired a practical knowledge of the philosophy of
disease, and its rationale of cure, he is now prepared to ex¬
amine, treat, and cure patients, suffering from all kinds of
acute,' chronic, nervous, and organic disease of long years’
standing. Consultations and invaluable treatment given at
his own house, or at patient’s residence, by appointment.
Visitors received at his Consulting-rooms from 12 to 4 daily.
Fee, One Guinea. Address, 59, Finborough-road, Redcliffe-
gardem, South Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST
AND RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT,
1, Robert street, Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen
by appointment only. Terms on application by letter.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, has returned to England, and
is now prepared to receive calls as usual, to lecture in London
or the provinces. All Letters to be addressed to him at
Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, London, E.
Notice.—monsieur adolphe didier,
Professor of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Estab¬
lished), attends patients daily from 2 till 5, at his own resi¬
dence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden Hill, Kensington. Som¬
nambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases, indication of
their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can consult
by letter.
THE BOY MEDIUMS.—Bamford Brothers,
Physical Mediums, will give Seances as followsOn
Monday and Wednesday evenings, at 7 o'clock p.m., admission
2s. 6d ; on Saturday evenings, at 7, Is. k26, Pool-street, Sutton,
Macclesfield.
MR. S. R. REDMAN, Professor of Animal
Magnetism, begs’ to inform inquirers and others that
he is prepared to attend Public or Private Seances at the houses
of investigators or otherwise, and give his unique illustrations
of Mesmeric and Psychological Phenomena, as recently given
by him before the members of ‘ The Brixton Psychological
Society.” For terms, etc., apply by letter to Mr. S. R. Redman,
Brixton-hill, S.W.
Mesmerism and electro-biology.—
Complete Instructions in Mesmerism and Electro-
Biology, with full and explicit directions for the production of
all tbe different phases of these marvellous and mysterious
Psychological Phenomena. Private Instructions personally or
by Post. For terms, address, Mr. E. H. Valter, Claremont-
villa, 51, Belgrave-road, Birmingham.
Psychopathic institution for the
CURE OF DISEASE, 19, Church-street, Upper-street,
Islington. A good “ Magnetic ” healer, Mr. J. Smith, in attend¬
ance daily, from 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. Fee, 2s. 6d.; Sundays
and Wednesdays free. Mr. and Mrs. Bullock, principals.
psychopathic institute
For the CURE OF NERVOUS AND mus¬
cular DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church,
74, Queen’s-road, Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Ope¬
rators sent to all parts. Terms per arrangement.
J. Coates, Principal.
Mesmerism, electro-biology,
FASCINATION.
How to mesmerise, fascinate, and produce electro-biological
phenomena.
How to know Sensitive Subjects.
How to develop Clairvoyant Media.
How to produce Sleep in any one at will.
DR. MOSES RIGG can teach any person efficiently by post.
Pamphlets and testimonials gratis, or by post, Id. stamp.
Address, 9, Granville-square, London, W.O. At home daily
from 10 till 5.
ENGLISH AND AMERICAN BOOKS
ON
Spiritualism, Psychology, Mesmaism, Anthropology,
Mental Physiology, and Kindred Subjects,
Are on sale at the Branch Office of The Spiritualist News¬
paper, 38, Great Russell-stieet, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
Booksellers and others who have Works upon these subjects
are requested to forward their Lists by post to the Manager.
In the Press.
Dr. monck’s almanack and truth-
SEEKERS’ GUIDE TO THE INVESTIGATION OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM. Over fifty closely-printed pages,
with illustrations of direct drawings through Dr. Duguid’s
mediumship. Oontains original articles written expressly for
the almanack by S. C. Hal), F.S.A., Dr. W. Hitchman,
“ Fritz,” T. P. Barkas, F.G.S., W. Oxley, T. Shorter, Mrs. Mak¬
dougall Gregory, A. Calder, J. N. Tredman Martheze, Mrs.
Tyndall, &c.t <fcc. Subjects—” Scientific Spiritualism,” “ Cui
Bono," “The Healing Power,” “Spiritualism in Every-day
Life," ‘ The Ben.flcent Aspect of Spiritualism,” On Mediums,'
“Rules for the Spirit Circle.” Will be found very useful
among sceptics and investigators. Orders should be sent in at
once to Geo. Tommy, 7, Unity-street, Bristol. Single copy, post
free, 3d. Quantities supplied to societies or for ft ee distribution
at a liberal reduction. Agents wanted.
Jt lpf|p pI % ^jpg^sp pI anb cl jljMiiluafktt.
Volume ^iqht. Kumber Thi^ee.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 21st, 1870.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS *
NO. XLVII,
{After a short rest, this addition roas made to what had been
saidl\
We have told you of the operations of the adversaries, and
of the danger to be apprehended from them. But others
there are who, without being malignant foes, are neverthe¬
less a cause of trouble to us. Many of those who are with¬
drawn from earth are not, as you know, very progressive,
nor, on the contrary, very undeveloped. The majority of
those who pass from the bod}7- are neither very evil nor very
good in spirit. Such, indeed, as are so far progressive as to
gravitate rapidly through the spheres nearest the earth, do
not return unless called to a special mission. The earth-
bound we have already told you of.
It remains to speak of the agency of a class of spirits who
from mischievous design, or from pure sportive fun, or from
love of mystification, frequent circles, counterfeit manifesta¬
tions, assume names, and give erroneous or misleading
information. Such are not evil, but unbalanced, spirits who
lack even balance, and who delight in plaguing mediums
and circles: in giving exaggerated tone to communications,
in introducing false elements, or in personating friends and
reading in the thought the answer which they give to a
query. The work of such is that which causes you to say
that Spiritual manifestations are frequently foolish or silly.
It is due to the efforts of these spirits, who from fun or mis¬
chief counterfeit our work, and play on the feelings of those
who trust them. These are they who personate relatives
whose presence is desired and answer to their names. These
are they who make true identification of friends in mixed
circles impossible. Most of the stories current of such return
of friends are due to the work of these spirits. These are
they who infuse the comic or foolish element into communi¬
cations. They have no true moral consciousness, and will
pray readily, if asked, or will do anything for frolic or mis¬
chief. They have no aspiration beyond the present: no
desire to injure, but only to amuse themselves.
These are they who allure to wrong paths, and suggest wrong
desires and thoughts. They secretly influence mediums much,
and prevent noble aspirations. They view with impatience
noble and elevated aims, and suggest the material. They act as
bars and clogs. They are greatly concerned with physical
manifestations. They are usually shrewd and clever at such
work, and they delight in presenting bewildering phenomena
for the purpose of disturbing the mind. They victimise
mediums in divers ways, and find a pleasure in the bewilder¬
ment of mind which they cause. Obsession and possession
and the various forms of spiritual annoyance proceed very
frequently from such. They are able to psychologise a mind
over which they have gained influence. * * * * These
again are spirits who befool inquirers who have asked for
personal information. They return plausible answers, and
bewilder the deluded inquirers, or if a personal friend have
once appeared, and given a good test, his or her place on the
next occasion may be filled by one of these spirits, who takes
the name and replies to queries, giving vague and unsatis-
* In Tht Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of some phenomena
which occurred in a private circle held at the house of Dr. Stanhope Speer, 13, Alexandra-
road, Finchley-road, N.W., through the mediutnship of a gentleman who is known to Spirit¬
ualists under the nom de plume of “ M.A. (Oxon).” A mass of evidence as to identity given up
to that time has since been greatly increased, and in all cases where verification is possible,
the statements made have been found to be literally accurate. This has been the case when
extracts from rare works have been laboriously authenticated in the library of the British
Museum. Evidence being so given of the independent action of spirit, and of the freedom
of the messages from colour by the medium’s thoughts, it has been thought vt ell to print
selections from a great mass of u Spirit Teachings ” which have been from time to time
written out automatically through nis hand. The communications so given extend over
three years, and are principally concerned with the Beligious Aspects of Spiritualism. They
are the work of many spirits, each of whom preserves his individuality, even to the pecu¬
liarity of the writing used. The opinions are frequently the reverse of those held by the
medium, and are written (as far as can be ascertained) without aid from his mind. The
hand is automatically moved, even though the brain be occupied about other work. Great
care has been taken to provide conditions under which reliable messages can bp
obtained [En.]
factory replies, or telling false stories. It is always well to
put the personal element as far from you as possible, lest you
open the way to deceit.
* * * * * 4- Imperator.
[/ 'print this communication, written March 15th, 1874,
because it refers to the elementary spirits of whose agency
we have recently heard from Col. Olcott in America. Long
before 1 had ever heard the name or had had any acquaint¬
ance with Occult literature or with any of the professors of
Occultism, I had received warnings such as that printed
above. They were more or less vague, and 1 did not.
attribute to them any special force. Nor did I grasp the
fact that they referred to spirits other than those of the
dead. I now Tcnoiv that the undeveloped, as they were
always called—the term elementary ivas never once used—\
included within their ranks both those who had passed
their incarnation without progress, and those properly called
the elementaries by Occultists who were waiting for their
incarnation and had not lived on this earth. Many com¬
munications lately written through my hand, and made in.
our circle, enlarge and explain the information given before;
and I now read what was vague and obscure before, with a
new light. Most of the personal warnings given me I have
not printed because they are so distinctly private; but I have
copied this one in order to show that what has caused such
astonishment and opposition amongst Spiritualists is not a
totally new and unknown doctrine emanating from a single
source. On the contrary, while the personal element which
is so rife in Spiritualism has been almost entirely absent
from my experience, I date the first learning about these
elementary spirits, vaguely put, but sufficient for its purpose,
and abundantly intelligible in the light of after-teaching to
the earliest days of my acquaintance with the subjects.']
{March 25th, 1874. A spirit communicated through the
table, name and particulars both unknown to any member of
the circle. I inquired on the following day about the cir¬
cumstance.]
The spirit said truly that she was named Charlotte Buck-
worth. She has no special connection with us, but was per¬
mitted to speak as she chanced to be present, and for evidence
to you. The conditions were unfavourable for our work; we
were not able to harmonise the conditions, which were dis¬
turbed. It is always so after such a day as you passed. The
different influences of those with whom you were thrown
would introduce elements of disturbance which we could not
harmonise.
[/ had been with four persons all more or lessmediumistic.
I always am affected by being in the society of such.]
You do not know how much. You are sensitive to such
influence. The spirit who came to you was one who has
passed from among you now for more than a hundred years,
having made a sudden and unprepared entrance into spirit-
life in the year 1773. She passed at the house of a friend in
Jermyn-street, whither she had gone on a party of pleasure.
She will probably be able to say more to you; but we have
no control over her.
[7 asked that she should be fetched, but was told that the
communicating spirit had no control over her. I then
inquired if anything more were known about her.]
Yes. She was very anxious to say more, but the power
was exhausted. She has been occupied in her special sphere
of work after awaking from a long sleep, and has not been
brought within the atmosphere of earth until lately. She is
attracted to circles where harmony prevails, being herself of
a loving nature. Her departure from your earth was instan¬
taneous ; for she dropped down at a party of pleasure, and
at once passed from the body.
26
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 21, 1876.
[I inquired the cause of death.'] j{
Weakness of the heart, increased by violent dancing. She ||
was but a thoughtless girl, though of a gentle and loving !
disposition.. . l!
[I ashed what house and where?] ■ ' T
We cannot say. She will probably be able to say for j
herself,
[Other subjects were then written about, and no more was i
said of this. In the afternoon of the same day a brief com- j
munication ivas made. Though I resisted the impression to I
ivrite, being busy and not at home, I toas compelled to allow n
the message to be given.] j
We have ascertained that it was at the house of one j
Doctor Baker that Lottie departed. The day was the fifth j
of December. We are not able to tell you more ; but |
enough has been said. Rector. j
[The verification of this statement toas as unexpected as i
was the message itself. We had decided that no means of j
verification was open; and the matter passed from our |
minds. Some time after, Dr. S had a friend at his j
house who was fond of old books. We three toere talking in j
a room in which there were a number of books rarely used, i
arranged in shelves extending from fioor to ceiling. Dr. ||
S 's friend, wham I will call Mr. A , mounted a chair |j
to get at the topmost row, which teas composed entirely of ||
volumes of the Annual Register. He took one down amid a j
cloud of dust, and commented on it as a valuable record of j
events from year to year. Almost anything, he said, could j
be found in it. As he said this the idea flashed into my mind ||
at once most vividly that there ivas the place to verify the ||
information that had been given about this death. It was one j)
of these utterly unaccountable impressions, or rather communi- \ j
cations, with which those who commune with spirits are jj
familiar. It was as if a voice spoke to my inner sense. I I)
hunted out the volume for 1773, and there I found among ||
the notable deaths a record of this occurrence, which had jj
apparently made a sensation, as occurring at a festivity in a jj
fashionable house. The volume was thickly covered with j
dust, and had lain undisturbed in its place since it had been jj
put there some five years before. 1 remember the books being j
arranged, and they had never been disturbed since ; nor, but |
for Mr. A 's antiquarian tastes, woidd it ever have jj
occurred to any of us to pull them down.] j
The medium through whom these Spirit Teachings are jj
given, says :—u I may add in this connexion that on March j
29th, 1874, a communication was written out in my book, j
of which at first I could make nothing. The handwriting j
was like none I had seen before, very shaky and tremulous, j
like that of an extremely old and feeble person. Though a |
name was apparently signed I could not read it at all until j
it was deciphered for me by the friend who usually writes. !
The message was from a very old woman, of whom I had j
never before heard, who passed away at upwards of 90 years j
of age at a house not far from the place where our circle j
meets. For obvious reasons I am unable to print the name j
and address. I have neither authority nor wish to seek it j
from friends still living. But the name, place of residence, j
both in earlier years and at the time of death, age, and date j
of decease, were given with exact accuracy. The remarkable j
fact, for which (apparently) the message was given, was that j
the time of departure from earth was in the month of jj
December, 1872, since which time, as was said, ‘ the spirit j
being full of years in its earth-life had rested from its j
earthly toil.’ On awaking it had been attracted to its old j
home, and thence to the circle in the immediate neighbour- j
hood. . li
“ I believe that in this, as in all cases of identity, the j
information was brought at the instance of Imperator, and j
for the definite purpose of supplying to me evidence which I jj
very much desired of spirit-identity, or rather of indi- jj
viduality perpetuated after bodily death. The cases were j
apparently selected according to a plan, and I have never jj
been able to procure evidence suggested by myself, or to j
interfere successfully with an apparently pre-arranged plan.” jj
Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism.—Tljie general
meeting being fixed for Thursday evening next, the ordinary weekly
£a</jee on Tuesday will therefore not be held.
THOUGHTS ON THE MEMUHSHIP OF INDIAN FAKIRS *
BY DR. MAXIMILIAN PEBTY, PROFESSOR OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, BERNB.
Jacolliot’s assertions on this subject must appear to out¬
siders as incredible, fantastic, and impossible as anything
that has been said and written about ancient and modern
magicians, Christian ascetics and mystics, from the earliest
centuries down to the present time. The readers of Psychic
Studies are, I assume, already somewhat conversant with
psychological phenomena, partly from historical sources,
and partly from a certain amount of what may be called
empirical knowledge; I have therefore felt no hesitation in
placing before them Jacolliot’s account of his Indian expe-
riences.f It may be—is, indeed—highly probable that he
has painted with somewhat lively colours, and that he has
artificially grouped his facts in such a manner as to force
conviction ;• that is to say, he may have arranged them in
a certain progressive order, and not exactly as they occurred.
But on examining the facts separately, we find them to
agree in essential points with other mystic phenomena of
various times and nations (allowance being made for the
character of the people, their natural surroundings, and the
scene of enactment), and I think they cannot be considered
as more or less wonderful than those, especially than the
latest experiences of Spiritualists. This agreement in the
essential nature of things puts Jacolliot’s facts on as credible
a footing as many of the others named, and we find our¬
selves with regard to them face to face with the vexed
question as to whether they are produced by magical forces
in living men, or by unseen beings called spirits, who make
use of the organisms of particular persons, called mediums,
to produce certain effects. The contents of the foregoing
pages prove that the Indians have held the latter opinion
from the earliest ages, and that they consider their pitris, or
spirits of their ancestors, to be the motive power. If they
are right, we must conclude that these spirits have powers
which do not come under the ordinary physical laws of
nature, and that for the demonstration of the same they
attach themselves to living persons, not so much for any
benefit that will accrue to them, as to give proof of their
own existence, and to bring their capabilities to some extent
under the cognisance of men. But so far as the fakirs,
sanyassis, nirvanys, and others are concerned, it is scarcely
to be doubted that many who desire it cannot succeed in
developing the magical power in themselves, therefore yield
to the temptation to simulate, and to produce deceptive
appearances, whereby they sink from magicians to conjurors.
This would naturally increase, as in the case of Egyptian,
Zend, and other worship, as Brahmanism degenerated, and
of which very little now remains. Just so in the latter days
of the Roman Republic, the augurs smiled on meeting one
another, and when the Romans came to Egypt, the priests
were only useful as masters of the ancient ceremonies.
The experience of all ages goes to prove that the practice
of these things is attended with danger to the living, and can
only occur at the cost of their fitness for their present stage
of existence. In my Mystic Phenomena, vol. i., p. 92, it
is mentioned, for instance, how dangerous it is to induce
visionary or clairvoyant power by means of incense-burning,
cases of which were cited, and the influence of which Jacol-
liot has himself witnessed. How much more deleterious are
those continuous ascetic practices which lead in some to
stigmatisations and general exhaustion of the system! If
there is any comfort in such sacrifice, it can only consist
in the fact that by this means revelations of the inner nature
of man are obtained which cannot be procured in any other
way; and if the opinion be correct that they are due to the
operation or co-operation of those no longer in this earthly
life, an empirical proof of personal continuity is gained,
which is incalculably more valuable than any speculation.
And from this point of view the mystics of all ages, though
they may have failed to attain earthly success and even
earthly happiness, have yet not lived and denied themselves
in vain, but have performed, indirectly, a great service to
mankind. This seems to me to be the point of view from
which they should be honoured, and not from the supposed
satisfaction rendered to the Deity by those who devpte
* Translated from Psychic Studies.
t Published in the last Vol, of The Spiritualist. *
Jan. 21, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
27
themselves to the necessary conditions, or rather are over¬
powered by them.
It is almost necessary to assume a special working of
Providence in all these things; therefore, also, in the so-
called stigmatisations. They follow the same law of order
and continuity that govern other events, so far as we per¬
ceive them, though in the present case much remains veiled
in mystery. These phenomena are very wonderful, but they
are not miracles in the popular sense of the word, though
they have been unquestionably held as such by pious believers
in all times. We cannot, however, argue with those who,
in complete ignorance of the subject, think they can annihi¬
late the facts with the terrible name “ deception,” and who
prove to their own satisfaction, from natural laws which in
no way affect the question, the ^impossibility” of mystic
phenomena, and who prefer the applause of the unjudging
crowd to open and earnest investigation.
SPIRITUALISM AT HOME.
[Much more practical Spiritualism than is generally supposed is prevalent
in private life, and haunted houses are by no means rare, though the owners
do not draw public attention to them. The appended messages, which have
been forwarded to us, were given at a private circle.]
The following communications were received from a spirit, who stated
that her name was Mary Ann C., and that she was connected with our
family in the reign of Queen Anne. They are extremely interesting,
as a description of a spirit’s progress out of darkness into God’s
marvellous light. The references she makes to her visits to her old
home on earth are confirmed by facts well known to many persons.
The old house in Scotland belonging to her family has been, until
lately, the scene of unaccountable disturbances. Footfalls, voices, and
the rustling of silk dresses have been heard in empty rooms, and the
house was for a long time reported to be haunted. We had heard of
these singular voices, but made no attempt to ascertain what caused
them, until quite unexpectedly a spirit in communication with us said,
“ Why do you not inquire about the ghost at C. ?” We then did so,
and a spirit came some time afterwards, who declared that she was
Dorothy C., the sister of the troubled spirit who roamed about her old
home at €., and the following communication was made by Dorothy
C.
"October 2nd, 1870.
“ The dear earthly teachers told you that I wished to speak with you.
Mary Ann, poor weary soul, must do her work of pain and remorse in
prison. Pray for me.' My poor sister joins her mother and sisters at
G. I do not go there because my load is gone, and I am in higher and
gentler spheres.”
“ November 20tb, 1870.
To my daughter A——, who had been on a visit to C , and had
been disturbed by the noises above alluded to :—
" Dear A , why were you frightened at me ? I would not walk
when I felt you were afraid of seeing me roaming in the same room you
slept in. You must have done me good had you prayed for me, and
talked to me without fear. Be sure I will not frighten those who believe
in me.
“ I am much obliged to you for letting me communicate with you. I
have received good from being allowed to do so. You would be sur¬
prised if you knew how I feel since I have spoken to you. You will
often hear from me, because I derive much benefit from being able to
communicate. Have patience with me; I cannot be good all at once,
but in time I will.”
Question.-—" Please tell us what you suffer.''
“ I am possessed with the idea that I am still on earth. You cannot
think how weary I am with life. As I have had no wish to be better, I
have had no power of improving. Dear friends, pray for me, though I
cannot do so myself.”
We said the Lord's Prayer, and begged her to join in it.
“ I have heard and thank you. Will you try and think of me in
your prayers, dear friends ? ”
•‘May 26th, 1871.
From Mary Anne C .
Child of man, think seriously of life, it is not alone a scene of joy.
You must try and sow good seed/ or you will look back with sorrow on
the past. Do remember to work while it is yet day; the night may
come; it,may find your work unfinished, and it will prove my words.
Know that I reaped my harvest. I was proud and haughty on earth,
and proved myself to be without the love of God in my heart. How
do you think I felt when I came here, where I could not respect one
spirit I was with? On earth I made myself hated for my unholy pride.
Dear cousin A , give E-— my kindest words of friendship: I know
she was never frightened at me. You know who I am. Dear mes¬
senger of rewards, my meaning is that I should be still roaming in one
of the rooms at C , if some kind friends had not kindly
thought of the poor unhappy spirit and prayed for her. Dear
E , do you dislike to speak to me ? Do you know how wicked
I was ? I am sorry to say my pride was not my worst sin. Fear
not; I am more sensible of my sins now than I was before.
When I came here I did not join with the others in cursing God, but
everybody seemed to think that I was a poor, unprotected spirit among
those demons. I had persevered in my wickedness on earth, and no
good spirit could penetrate to where I was. Christ loved some of tbe
most wicked on earth, but he grieved over their sins. Our Lord
knows our guilt, and shows us the same love he showed on earth.
Christ is our Redeemer. He died for such as I, for the wretched; and
only such as I know how wretched a spirit can be. Dear E., I have
been positively saved as a brand from the burning fire of sin and
suffering. Christ has made me whole. He has worked a change of
heart in me, and taught me to love the only God; for I could not see the
kind, loving spirits who came to meet me at the spirit circle, and who
did not repulse the wretched spirit without the love of God. But I
felt their kind thought of me, I felt a longing to communicate with
some one on earth, and when A. was at C , I communicated with
her. I then felt better, and knew where I was in the spirit world.
Dear E., don’t think too much of my wickedness. I am happy now,
and I praise God for His love and mercy to such a one as I. A little
while ago I thought I could never be happy again, but now a ray of
sunlight has penetrated to me, and I can count showers of lovely
flowers, well refreshing to my darkened eyes. Do tell me if you or any
of your family found me very shocking to you? I should be very
sorry if I had been. I did not know what I was doing. I thought I
was with my mother and my sisters. How sad that room was to me!
Oh! if I had known how remorse would have torn me, I never
would have sold myself to the powers of evil. Fill your minds with
serious thoughts of life; do not resign yourselves to pleasure ; sin will
quickly take possession of the unrepenting heart. Fill j’our hearts with
love to your God, and pray for the sorrowful spirit who loves you, and
for her sake don’t speak lightly of sin.
Question.— What sphere toere you in t
I was in the sphere of those spirits who see not, neither do they hear
aught but their bowlings; and their pain was quite real, for it was the
suffering of despair and remorse. I revere the good spirits who came
to pour spiritual balm upon our pain, but we could neither hear nor see
them.
Dear A., God bless you, and keep you in His love all the days of your
life on earth, and when you leave it, may you enter the mansion pre¬
pared for you, meet for the child of God. -Cease your life of frivolity
and pleasure, and do work for God, and look to Him for help in all your
difficulties. Good night, dear friends.
The above message was given in London to two young ladies, one of
whom (E.) lives in the old house in Scotland, which had been haunted
by the spirit of Mary Anne C. Two days afterwards the following
message was received at Tunbridge Wells by myself and my daughter,
without our having heard of the previous communication.
Whit Sunday, May 28th, 1871.
To H. and her Mother,—I am Mary Anne C. I will tell you what
I have been doing since I Spoke last to you. You will be much sur¬
prised to hear that I am much improved in spiritual learning. You
know how sad my entrance into the spirit world was, which was into a
very low sphere where all was dark and lonely. When in that desolate
and wretched state, I longed to return to my old haunts of vanity and
sin, and this was permitted, which was my dreadful punishment. So
are the desires of the heart fulfilled, either for good or evil. This desire
did not satisfy me, or give me any pleasure, so the desolation and
wretchedness of my wicked heart cannot be imagined. I by degrees
saw the folly of what I was doing, never approaching to the pleasure I
desired, because it was earthly. I became aware that I could
communicate with invisible spirits far away from me, some,
like myself, out of the flesh, and some in the flesh. I then
longed to speak to any who would not fear me, because
I began then to know my own sinfulness. I began to wish to be better.
Then I heard of you through some other spirits who are connected with
us ; these told me that I would be listened to, and I came. God in His
great mercy listened to my desire to no longer return to those endless
scenes of worldliness at my Scotch home. He permitted me to speak
to you, and you were permitted to do a poor sinner good. Ever since I
was taught how worthless I am I have been longing to be better, and I
have risen, and now it is the delight of my soul to learn the manifold
mercies of God. How unworthy I feel. Although I was wicked I
have learned that my Saviour died for such as I, and though for
ages I was in a state of rebellion towards him, he has saved me.
Dear friends, I have to thank you in the name of Jesus Christ for
leading my soul to the blessed light. You have been the humble means,
and therefore I come to show my gratitude, but my thanksgivings are
more heartfelt towards my God for all His wonderful loving kindness.
You have had a lesson dear Mrs. L., never to be forgotten. You
did not turn a deaf ear to one whom you thought lost. I could not
pray, but you prayed for me, and read the holy Bible to me. Never say
that the fervent prayer of a righteous man cannot save a soul alive.
Your prayers are all heard. Your wishes, whether for good or evil, are
ever going up to the ear of God. Never wilfully desire worldly gratifi¬
cation or aggrandisement, because—I do not say your prayer will not
be answered, even to the letter—but your greatest trials and severest
temptations may be sent in their form. Therefore, pray only for the t
good, and the amount of earthly pleasure which God sees fit to give
you. I craved for my earthy pleasures even after I had left the world,
and though my desire was granted I was in torment. Hell is the evil
state of the soul ever desiring the sins and wickedness, winch when
given cannot even give the transient passing joy of earth, for our
spiritual bodies have not the power of receiving the gratifications of the
flesh, and still the desires of the flesh remain. Can you understand tho
horror of tliis state of being? Never give way to this earthly longing,:
but elevate your souls even now, by cultivating a desire for
spiritual pleasures, this will not only purify your minds, but
make your progress iu the next sphere easier. 0! had J
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 21, 187tf.
28
learned my lesson of submission, humility, love to God aud to Kj
my fellow men, I would not have been left so long in my sphere of !>|
misery, and without God in my heart. My Saviour came and found j ]
me longing for a ray of light, and so weary of wandering that I longed | (j
to stay at peace. And I was sent teachers who seemed to unbind my l/j
fettered soul, to unbind my closed eyes, to loose my tongue, to wash me | (j
for a purer sphere. Then gradually my spirit drank in the blessed light 13
of God’s truth; my benumbed tongue could praise him, my limbs could i(!
walk in the wide expanse where all showed forth God’s glory. You j (j
have had a wonderful description of my advance from spiritual darkness I |l
into the light of God’s heavenly truth. I was in bondage to sin, and \A
now I am free, enjoying God’s love which had never ceased for me, but j(j
was only hidden from me by my own wilfulness. God bless you, and |;|
save you from such an entrance into the next sphere. Take example j(l
by what you learn, and never forget that you are at present given time j (j
and opportunity to make your spiritual home perfect. Neglect no ||i
opportunity for doing the little good you can; be humble, be patient, j (i
be lowly in your own eyes. Love God; live as if you were told that j(|
to-morrow you would enter the spirit world. Pray for God’s help through |>i
His holy spirit, for strength to tight the many temptations which sur- ||
round you. Never trust to your own power of resisting temptation, for ||j
the best of God’s people are but weak, and He only is strong. He will | j j
never forsake you, never neglect you. He loves you. Are not you all j(i
His children ? And if He seems to afflict you, it is merely to draw you !|l
closer to Himself; and if He takes what you love away, you will find | i |
the loved one again. He has told you that where the treasure is there |||
the heart will be also. This world would not appear so welcome were jp
it not the abode of those who are not dead but gone before. You have |||
listened to me with great patience, and I thank God for permitting me j (|
to come again and talk to you. I hope to come some other day, if I can, || |
in my humble capacity, do you any good. I see and feel your surprise |||
that I, who so lately came to you for help and instruction, can come to jjj
you teaching you God’s word of instruction and wisdom. I was per- |||
mitted to tell you what I had learned. I longed to show you what a j(|
blessed state of mind I was in; therefore, what I feel so deeply I was j |
obliged to impress on my dear cousins. Give my love to all those who j: |
are interested in my improvement, and I thank them. God bless you. ||
Many dear ones would have spoken to you to-night, but they have !(j
allowed me, for which I am very grateful. Farewell. |!|
Mary Anne C., to H and her mother. j j
“July 23rd, 1871, Sunday Evening. I jj
“ Dear Friends,—I am Mary Ann C . You are very good and m
patient in welcoming me. I want to tell you about the sphere I am jjj
now in. I am higher, and progressing in knowledge of spiritual truth, jjj
I have not desired to communicate with you for some time, because I j(j
have been receiving such high teaching from my heavenly guides. You jjj
were pleased to hear from me that I no longer wished to return to earth, jjj
and now I would not care to speak to you if I did not feel that you j(j
would rejoice at my joy and improvement. Such communications can jjj
do my spirit no harm, because you do not wish for my communication jjj
from mere curiosity, but to do me good, or to receive benefit from my j (j
spiritual experience. God has been very gracious to me; His com pas- jjj
sion has been greater than I deserve. He sent you to my rescue. I jjj:
mean your sincere wish and heartfelt prayer for my deliverance from the j (j
cruel bondage to sin enabled my spirit to crave for light, which was sent j, j
in the shape of a heavenly visitant who I told you made me free. Ever j (j
since that day have I received fresh proofs of God’s love. I suffered j(j
because I remained in wilful blindness ; my home was so dark, and now j j
I see such light from the blessed truths I am daily taught. So many j(j
are willing to communicate that I will say no more at present, but j < j
return if I am permitted. I love to come ; your spirit is very sympa- j j j
thising; therefore I have less trouble in communicating.
July 30tb, 1871. j j
Mary Anne C.,—I am your friend Mary Anne C. I must come and M
tell you that I am so happy. I will make you understand how I have jjj
risen. You know already how I was delivered from the bondage of that j ji
most awful death of sin. I was taught my own unworthiness, and given jd
the desire to be better; then as my spirit improved in its state, so did I jj
leave behind me all those dreadful, miserable longings to return to earth jjj
and enjoy those earthly pleasures which gave me only wretched feelings id
of desolation. I now can appreciate the sweet sounds and sights which jjj
surround me, and to which my spirit was dead. My spiritual atmosphere jjj
is becoming purer as I desire for progress. My guardian angel has been (j
so tender and patient with me, for at first I could not rise, or feel interested jjj
in anything beyond my poor miserable self. I had first to be taught to jjj
think of the wants and pleasures of others, then I found in so doing I j(j
derived joy. When self is forgotten, then the spirit is filled with the jjj
pleasure of heavenly love. In my low and dark sphere, where I was jjj
left so long, I only thought of my own misery. I only longed for my j(j
own gratification, and it was given to me in the very form I prayed for jjj
it. Now I have lost my selfish heart, and live to help and attend to jjj
those who need assistance. I cannot teach you, my dear friends, but I Mi
am permitted to warn you most earnestly to pray against the sin of jjj
selfishness, for though that may be in your eyes a very little sin, it is jjj
truly the root of all sin. Forget your own selfish pleasures and troubles, jjj
and you will derive both comfort and joy. I thank A. for writing what jjj
I have come to say, for I want you to feel the importance of my humble jjj
mission. I have not risen so high as your dear brother, but he has left, jjj
so that my sad experience may be a serious warning to those he loves, jjj
I was unwilling to interrupt him, but longing again to tell you how to jjj
live, so that hereafter you may not go where my spirit suffered such a jjj
time of purgatory, or purifying from the dross of sin, for as long as sin jjj
is indulged in, and the thought delightful, so long your spirit is enchained j j j
in its power. No sooner do you see it in its own hideous form, than it jjj
falls off like a mask. I have become much more humble, and feel my ijj
uitworthiness in many ways. Before I prided myself in having belonged jjj
to a good family, and I longed to live in the same style I did on earth.
I hope to improve, but my spirit must go through much purification.
You are tired ; I will not keep you longer, dear friends, but will return
if I am permitted. Farewell.
PSYCHOLOGICAL EXPERIENCES.
A correspondent, writing from the Continent, says:—
For the third time phenomena have occurred to me which I formerly
should have put down to hallucination, and am still willing to do, but
think the circumstances worth mentioning to you, on account of the
strong resemblance they bear to certain Spiritualistic phenomena which
I have witnessed in the presence of others, at seances with mediums in
London.
For the first time on July 13th, for the second time on September
7th, and for the third time last night I suddenly awoke out of the midst
of my dreams to the consciousness that my hands were seized and
pressed by other hands. My consciousness increased; I knew exactly
that I was in bed, remembered clearly where I left off my dream, felt
the strange pressure on my hands still; wondered who could have got
into my bedroom, the door having been locked by myself before going
to bed, when suddenly the thought flashed through my mind the hands
I felt pressing mine might be spirit hands. The idea struck me with a
certain awe, but rather pleased than frightened me. The next thought
was, “ I will open my eyes suddenly; perhaps I may see a spirit, or
some phenomenon.” I opened my eyes accordingly, and at the same
moment the pressure on my hands ceased, but two or three phosphores¬
cent-looking sparks flashed about the room, forming lines of light.
Most strange thing of all, towards the foot of the counterpane of my
bed I beheld several mathematical figures, besides what looked like the
profile of a human face of diminutive size, formed of small but distinct
luminous sparks. I did not know what to make of it, and in order to
see whether it was simply a visual hallucination I closed my eyes for a
while, but when I opened them, lo ! there were the same figures still,
on the same spot; also some lights flashing about the room. I repeated
the act of opening and closing my eyes, with the same result three or
four times. I noticed distinctly the other objects in my room, the
curtains included, shining forth in the morning light.
The second time, when similar phenomena were seen by me (Sept.
7th) in my present abode, it was with the difference that I awoke from
sleep with the sensation of somebody breathing in my face and covering
my brow, eyes, and cheek with kisses; at the same time I felt both my
hands seized and pressed by a couple of hands. This time the pressure
of the hands did not cease at the moment I awoke, but a little after.
However, I did not perceive any sparks or lights this time. A nebulous
form of a face seemed to vanish into the darkness in front of my eyes
when I opened them, but that I could not swear to, though of the rest I
felt so sure that I could make oath thereto, because when conscious I
still felt, and even smelt, the warm breath in my face.
Last night I was not favoured by any kisses, but by the same pres¬
sure of three or four hands awaking me out of a sound sleep. This
time I wondered and contemplated what sort of hands they might be.
The hands were, judging from the feeling, decidedly male hands.
Not wishing to break the charm at once, being perfectly conscious,
though not perfectly awake all the time, I asked in a joyful lisp,
“Are you really here, my spirit friends?” and I received the answer,
“ Yes, we are here!” This reply sounded as spoken close to my ear,
and in a deep lisp. Anxious to catch sight of the speaker, I opened my
eyes, but there was nothing there.
It may be well to observe, that each time that these phenomena pre¬
sented themselves to me I had not partaken of any heavy suppers, nor
of any wine, beer, or any similar beverages in the evening.
Spiritualism is making sure but steady progress in the United States.
One of the best signs is in the space now given to it by the secular
newspapers. The Sunday Herald (Boston), a paper of very large cir¬
culation, devotes two columns to the subject regularly every week.
Other papers, in New York, Chicago, and St. Louis treat the subject
with liberality and respect.
Cheating the Dead,—-All progress, whether moral or social, is a
source of regret to some classes in every community; to those, namely,
who make a profit out of the superstition or ignorance of the rest.
Thus the partial submission of the Chinese colonists in America to the
sceptical spirit of the age has been very unlucky for the Redskins, who
in some states used to get very pretty pickings out of the religious rites
of the Celestial immigrants. The Chinaman, whilst still orthodox, used
to leave plenty of eatables on the tombs of the dead, to which the
Indians helped themselves, leaving the defrauded ghosts to take their
own remedy; but when he became “ broad ” the good Asiatic took to a
modification of his ancient practice, and now parades the food through
the cemetery as before, but eats it at home. A Nevada paper, which
cannot be accused of writing “ Johnsonese,” describes a “ grave-yard
blow-out,” or “post-mortem collation by the Chinese at Carson, as
having commenced by the formation of three distinct processions, each
headed by a band beating gongs and cymbals. Roast hog, it seems,
was abundant, and “ the Washoes looked on in wistful sorrow,” only
too well informed that the good old days when the Chinaman left
“ great stacks of grub ” upon the graves of departed fellow-Pagans for
the noble Red man to devour, have passed away, and that he consumes
his own votive offerings on his own festive board. So will it be when
the intentions of the “pious founder” are all made subservient to
modern requirements, the vanishing “stacks of grub” being watched
to the very last by the wistful eyes of “Washoes’’ in the shape of
disappointed jobbers.—The Eeho%
Jan. 21, 1876.
THE SPIBITTJALIST.
29
©omsponTience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers.']
PRIVATE SEANCES IN MANCHESTER.
Sir,—I have to record two remarkable incidents which indicate steady
development towards splendid future results, and show what may be
expected from a circle, which faithfully observes conditions, and above
all excludes all possible intrusion of villany, treachery, and spirit-
graspers. After securing my medium perfectly in the stiff-net bag
behind the curtain, I placed on another chair, near to her, a plate filled
with flour, to try to obtain an impression of the spirit’s hand. The
form soon came distinctly to the aperture, and retired after a while,
during which the thought came into my mind that, if the power of the
hand were sufficient, the plate might be handed to me by the spirit
itself, and curiously enough (was it thought-reading, or chance ?) the
plate came through the aperture. I took it to the lamp, and there was
the impression of a small female hand, plain enough! Why shouldn’t
I get the same from the foot ? and send it to the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen as a compliment to his Footfalls on the Boundary of Another
World. At the last sitting (same test conditions), a beautiful little
hand only came into view, holding the velvet ribbon with the cross. I
thrust my hand through the aperture, and I felt and saw the cross play¬
fully touching my fingers. A voice whispered: “ I wont give it back
to you, mind!” C. Reimers.
Jan. 14th, 1876, 2, Ducic-avenuo, Manchester.
ELEMENTARY SPIRITS.
Sir,—It seems to me that the whole subject of “ elementary spirits ”
is, in great measure, anticipated, and put into a nutshell in Allan
Kardec’s Spirits' Book, questions 536 and 540 (1st ed.). H. M.
Bath, Jan. 16th, 1876.
SPIRITUALISTIC WINTER MEETINGS.—EXPERIMENTS IN MESMERISM.
Sir,—I am requested by the committee which has charge of the
arrangements for the above meetings, to inform you that next Monday,
the 24th inst., will commence a series of investigations into the subject
of Mesmerism, to open with some experiments on that evening by
Professor Redman.
You have so often called attention to the importance of this subject in
its bearings upon Spiritualism, that I am sure you will give every
publicity to this announcement, in order that the members of the
National Association of Spiritualists may not fail to be apprised of it.
E. Kislingbury.
THE HARRISON TESTIMONIAL.
Sir,—Permit me to call attention to a notice which will be found in
your advertisement columns, of the soirie to be held at the Cavendish
Rooms on the night of Wednesday, the 2nd of February.
The Council of the National Association of Spiritualists has kindly
permitted the committee of the Harrison Testimonial Fund to avail
themselves of this opportunity of presenting the testimonial, and I trust
that all friends interested in Spiritualism will show their appreciation
of the services Mr. Harrison has rendered to the cause by their presence
on the occasion. Martin R. Smith.
INDIAN JUGGLERS.
The Newcastle Weekly Chronicle, of January 15th, gives the
following:—
“ Ernest Wells last week gave some extracts from the Times of some
very clever tricks performed by Indian jugglers before the Prince of
Wales. With the same laudable view of eliciting information as Mr.
Wells, I append the following witnessed while in India some years ago:
—One of these jugglers commenced before a numerous audience to dis¬
play his abilities as a conjuror, producing a green cocoa-nut and a
hatchet. Several of the audience were invited to split open the nut;
all refused. At length an officer undertook the task of splitting it, when
out sprang a small green serpent, about eight inches long, and said to
be the most venomous of the tribe in India. While the animal was
running frisking about, many of the audience were making tracks to a
distance. The conjuror held it by the end of its tail, immediately over
his mouth, dropped it down his throat, and swallowed it. His next trick
was also a cocoa-nut, the audience being again requested to split it; all
refused; then he accomplished it himself, when three ordinary pigeons
made their appearance, flying to a distance, returning, and finally
perching on his shoulders and head. After toying with and caressing
them, he placed them on his left hand, and with his right hand dealt
on the bodies of the poor birds a tremendous blow; they were imme¬
diately crushed; nothing was left. The man, being naked, except a
thin muslin loin covering, next placed himself in the centre of the ring,
and became rigid, while the heads of four serpents were beginning to
show over the edge of his muslin dress. One by one he hauled these
out, placing one round his body, another round his neck, the others in
his hands. These disappeared as mysteriously as they were produced.
He next produced three stones, the largest one being the size of a small
egg, the other two gradually decreasing in size. Placing the largest
stone in his mouth, he deliberately—and with some apparent difficulty
—•swallowed it, the second and third being sent after the first. After
sundry grimaces and twitchings of the stomach, he attempted to vomit
them. He succeeded in this by first producing the larger stone from his
mouth and the others in succession in the same order as they had been
swallowed. His last trick, the best of the series, was sitting on nothing.
His attendant, taking three swords, which he stuck in the ground,
placed on the top of them a round half-inch board, making what may
1 be termed a three-footed stool. On this stool the conjuror squatted
|| like an Eastern potentate on his throne. In a short time he became
perfectly motionless, in which position he sat for some minutes. His
attendant slowly approached him and removed one sword, the juggler
| sitting on two. In a short time the attendant removed another sword,
the juggler being perched on the remaining sword. Finally, the last
sword was removed, the board fell on the grass, and the juggler was
left sitting on—nothing. And there he remained some minutes. The
Indian jugglers who perform this trick scrupulously maintain their secret,
no inducement offered tempting them to divulge it. J. S., Gateshead.’’
j] SPIRITUALISM IN LEIGH.
)j On Sunday evening last a private seance was held in Leigh at which
)i some singular manifestations were given. The mediums were two
boys—Joseph and Walter Bamford, of Macclesfield. The lads, who
j! are at present at school, say that until a few months ago they were un-
)i aware of the power which they apparently possess. The lads were
| i accompanied by their father, along with a well-known Leigh Spiritualist,
ji and they visited Leigh at the request of the writer. When they were
)j introduced into the room where the manifestations were afterwards
(j given no preparations had been made, and a temporary “ cabinet” had
)j to be formed out of the window curtains. A small but heavy mahogany
writing table was then removed to the centre of the room, covered with
si a cloth, and the preparations were completed.
jj An accordion was first held by Walter with one hand beneath the
11 table, the keys being downwards, and under very strict tests, which
11 need not be detailed. In a few seconds successive notes were sounded,
)| and a strain of the “National Anthem” was played, followed by a
(| ludicrous attempt by the “ spirit ” to play one of Mr. Sankey’s popular
ji airs. The tune being whistled, it was attempted to be imitated on the
/j accordion, but after jerking out the first two lines “it” finished with a
(j rapid improvised finale and became silent. So far as human judgment
ji can decide, the keys of the accordion were not touched by the medium,
jj and the instrument was only an ordinary one. It was afterwards taken
jj to pieces and a “post mortem examination ” made, with the satisfactory
jj conclusion that those in the room could see through the accordion,
jj though by no means through the singular fact that the instrument
j j played without hands, and appeared to be under the control of some
jj intelligent, not to say obstinate powTer. An attempt to obtain
jj writing on paper was unsuccessful, but the unfinished words,
(j “God save the” were written upon a slate held by the
jj medium under the table, whilst his other hand was laid upon the top.
jj A calico bag was then produced and examined carefully, and
jj after his coat sleeves had been stitched together and to the back of his
jl jacket, and other precautions taken to prevent escape, the lad, Walter
jj was lifted into the bag, which was tied round his neck, and he was then
jj firmly secured to the back of a chair. The chair was then lifted be-
jj hind the curtains, and Walter’s feet placed upon a stool. The curtain
j j was then closed and held by one of the sceptical gentlemen present, a
j j small bell having been previously placed on the medium's lap. No
ji sooner were the curtains closed than the bell was thrown down, the
jj lad being upon examination “as he was.” This was repeated several
j j times, and also with a small lever call bell (not belonging to the medium),
jj which was rapidly rung and turned over, not only when left on the
ji medium’s knees, but when held in that position by one of the gentle-
Jj men in the room, who, directly the bell struck, pressed down the knob,
jj but without causing the ringing to cease. The bell was also placed
jj upside down, but in a second or two it was righted and ringing as well
jj as ever. Two similar bells, but of different tone, were then laid on the
jj medium’s knees and the curtains closed. The bells rang together,
j Every plan convenient at the time was adopted to detect the cause, but
j j without success. The bell rang most certainly without anything material
ji being in contact, except the hand of the person who held it in one
jj instance. A slate laid on the medium’s knees was scrawled over with
jj the pencil laid upon it, but no direct writing was obtained, although the
jj bell rung as usual when laid upon the slate. Four finger rings were
jj then laid loosely on the lap of the medium, from which they were
j j thrown, upon the curtains being closed. After this had been repeated
j j several times two of the rings were successively placed upon one of
j j the fingers of the medium (who was tied in the sack) in a few seconds
jj of time. The last manifestations took place with the curtains open,
j j and with a gaslight burning immediately in front of and above the
ji medium, who was still seated in the sack and tied to the chair. Before
jj all present in the room a book was repeatedly thrown off Walter’s knees
ji by no visible means, and the book back was slowly raised and lowered
j j several times in the full view of all. The boy was then lifted but of the
jj cabinet and untied, all the knots being apparently perfect, and none of
j the stitches connecting his coat sleeves together, and otherwise making
ji movement all but impossible, were found broken. On one finger of his
ji left hand were the two rings mysteriously removed from his lap earlier
j j in the evening.—Leigh Chronicle.
Mr. J. J. Morse will give trance addresses.in Newcastle on January
30th and 31st, and February 2nd, at the Freemasons’ Old .Hall, Wiers-
court. On Thursday, February 3rd, there will be a social meeting.
Mr. Epes Sargent’s Does Matter do it All ? a reply to Professor
Tyndall’s latest attack on Spiritualism, has been reprinted from the
New York Sun in the form of a pamphlet,
Danger Signals, an Address on the Uses and Abuses of Modern Spirit¬
ualism, by Mary F. Davis, is an excellent little pamphlet on the above
subject, and is written in plain, simple language.
Mr. Cromwell Varley, F.R.S., will attend at the presentation cf
the “ Harrison Testimonial,” and will address the meeting,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 21, 1876.
SO
SYSTEMATIC APPEARANCE OF RECOGNISABLE SPIRITS. ( |
Fbom the contents of the following letter, it would ap~ Kj
pear that materialisation manifestations have developed to a ju
greater extent in America than in this country. Mrs. oj
Andrews is the first medium who began to sit regularly for K|
them in the United States, so it is but natural that an |||
advanced stage of development should have been reached :— | xj
To the Editor of the “ Banner of Light.” ' i
At this Christmas time it is eminently proper for earnest
Spiritualists to meet in private and public circles, and while !?!
communing with loved ones who have gone before, learn of
them why the Christ could work His miracles, and whence jl
came the powerthat has made Him a teacher and a guide for ||
nearly two thousand years. bj
It would seem as if the spirit-world cherished a particular [1
fondness for this portion of the year, as, in this section of ! 1
the country at least, its denizens have come among us with b|
renewed power, and have given us wonderful and convincing )||
evidences of their presence and love. Since the first circle
in November, at Cascade—the home of that true and faith- i) j
ful mediuha, Mary Andrews—the power of her spirit-band Kj
has seemed to augment and increase until it culminated last | p
evening in one of the most remarkable, satisfactory and bj
convincing seances it was ever my good fortune to attend. m
Circles are now held regularly each day—at half-past j/j
nine a.m., and seven p.m.—and when conditions are right, Mj
and the circle harmonious, sceptics cease to be doubters, and j (j
believers are strengthened in their faith. The morning jp
seances are of the nature of developing circles, and prepara- j ||
tory to the evening circle. They are held in the dark, at j (j
which time the controlling spirits speak, and give such II
directions for the guidance of the medium and the circle as j j
may be necessary, while friends and relatives “ gone before” j j
give cheering words of recognition, and send messages of \m
remembrance and love to the absent. The most convincing jffi
tests of identity, spoken from the materialised lips of those j j
called dead, are given at nearly every one of these circles, jp
while spirit-voices join in the singing, and spirit-lights keep j j
time to the music, or answer the anxious questioner for j j
knowledge.
The evening circle is held, not in a dimly-lighted room, j j
but with sufficient light to enable all to distinguish clearly i (j
and distinctly forms and features. At these circles spirit- jp
forms often materialise and vanish in plain sight of the j I
spectators, and, standing in the doorway of the cabinet,
holding the curtains wide apart, they are recognised by their j p
friends, and, in turn, greet them with words of hope and Hi
cheer, then gradually fade from view, to be followed by j j
others, male, female, and little children. On several occa- p
sions three spirit-forms have at the same time appeared at j I
the door of this phantom closet. Last evening the writer j j
saw a beautiful child, with waving, yellow hair, stand at the I p
opening, while the mother, bending forward, revealed to us I j
a radiant face, beaming with a smile of maternal affection, ju
as she imprinted kisses upon the brow and lips of her ip
darling, and encouraged it to meet our gaze and respond to I I
our questionings. When the curtains were drawn back to ||l
give us this vision, the medium could be seen in her chair. I p.
at the side of the cabinet. This remarkable and, as Profes- I |
sor Tyndall would say, unscientific occurrence, gave hope j I
and belief to at least one materialistic sceptic present, and jp
has started him on the way to learn of another and a better jjjj
life than this, which he had supposed was the be-all and j I
end-all of existence. Ip
Earnest and candid seekers after truth will be at all times j j
welcomed at Cascade. It is not necessary for a person to jjf
be a believer in order to gain admittance, nor are exacting j p
and suspicious conditions necessary to insure the peace or jsj
safety of the medium. All, both believers and unbelievers, j j
are welcome, and abundant opportunity is given them to jp
investigate the phenomena and test their genuineness. ' I j
Charles A. Warden. „ j j
Auburn, N.Y., Dec, 24th, 1875. . .y j jl
Ms. Reimees writes from Manchester that he has just held a \l\
materialisation seance in daylight, and a figure appeared of surprising j j
beauty, with a glittering crown and a profusion of white drapery, the |||
effect altogether being beyond his power of description. ■ . ■ | ci
THE DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
OCCULT PSYCHOLOGICAL PHENOMENA.
The following consists of selections from the paper read on Tuesday,
last week, before the Dalston Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism,
by Dr. George Sexton:—
The subject of the paper announced for to-night is so wide and com¬
prehensive, and includes within it a variety of topics of such thrilling
interest and momentous importance, that it may seem almost presump¬
tuous to attempt to deal with it in the short time at my disposal. The
utmost, therefore, that I can do will be to glance summarily at a few
facts connected with various phases of mental operation, of a somewhat
occult character, and which, although by no means uncommon in their
occurrence, have yet baffled philosophy to explain. Psychology is one
of the most important and interesting branches of study, yet it is one
which has been, and still is, terribly neglected. In the past, far more
attention was paid to questions connected with the nature and operations
of the human mind, than in these days of physical science and
materialistic opinion. But even then the difficulties presenting them¬
selves in the way of obtaining a thorough knowledge of the soul were
felt to be so great, that nothing but the vaguest conjectures and the
wildest speculations resulted from the inquiry. In all studies of this
kind, there is one great difficulty which must always remain, which is
that the mind is both the instrument employed for the investigation, and
at the same time the subject of the investigation itself. As, however, in
this paper, I simply intend to draw your attention to facts rather than
make an attempt to hazard a philosophy by which they are to be
explained, it is not necessary for me to enlarge upon the nature of mind
itself, or the laws by which its operations are carried on. I assume for
my own part that man is immortal, that he has a spiritual nature, and
that consequently all the phenomena of mind lie outside the domain of
his material existence. There may, however, be those present who
take another view, one far more fashionable at the present day, and who
hold that matter and its laws are all that we know of, and must be held
to be competent to account for mental as well as physical phenomena.
With such persons I have no dispute to-night, except to say that I think
the facts which I shall bring before you will puzzle and perplex such
philosophers beyond measure, and set their materialistic theories com¬
pletely at defiance.
CASES OF TRANCE AND ABNORMAL SLEEP.
The classes of mental phenomena to which I shall refer are several,
and I select them at random, without attempting to trace any relation¬
ship between them, since to do that would require a large volume rather
than a short paper, which volume I shall probably some day give to the
world, as I have a great number of facts, the result of many years
accumulation.
I. The state of profound and prolonged sleep simulating death, deno¬
minated trance.—This is a phenomenon which has always excited a
large amount of attention. By many it has been viewed as an actual
separation of the soul from the body, and has been consequently looked
upon with a considerable amount of awe. In a physical point of view
the appearances presented are very nearly the same as in dissolution,
while of the mind its condition is various. Sometimes it remembers
everything that occurs in connection with the material body from which
it was supposed to have departed; sometimes it brings back descriptions
of regions which with its material organisation it had never visited; and
at other times it remembers nothing, and may therefore have been
unconscious, if mind can ever be unconscious, which is questionable.
This state of trance probably bears some relation, though we scarcely
know what, to the hybernation of the lower animals. True hybernation,
however, can only occur, in connection with cold-blooded animals, for
reasons which will be obvious to the physiologist. These cases of trance
have sometimes given rise to most serious results, premature interment
having not unfrequently taken place. In the Transactions of the Royal
Society of Edinburgh, there is a case given of one Mary Lyall, who fell
asleep on the 20th of June, and slept until the 30th; then fell asleep
again en the 1st of July, and slept until the 8th of August. On the
occasion of this second sleep she was blistered and bled, and placed in
a warm bath for the purpose of arousing her, but all without effect.
For the first week no kind of motion was observed, and no food taken.
At the end of that time she moved her left hand, and pointed to her
mouth, thus signifying a desire for food. This being administered to
her, she took whatever was given, without moving any other part of her
body. After she awoke she remained deaf for four days. Dr. Binns men¬
tions the case of a woman who slept for forty days, and of another
one—Elizabeth Parkins—who in 1788 fell into a deep sleep from which
nothing could rouse her, and in which she remained for eleven days,
when she awoke Spontaneously and went about her business as usual.
Dr. Oliver mentions the case of one Samuel Chilton, of Tinsbury, near
Bath, who had several attacks of this kind, going to sleep on one occa¬
sion, when the barley was being sown, and not awaking until it was
being cut. On one of these occasions, during a prolonged sleep, a
number of very cruel experiments were tried upon him—such as bleed¬
ing, cupping, the application of hartshorn, and other stimulating sub¬
stances to the nose, and the thrusting of pins under his finger nails—
but he neither moved nor spoke, nor gave any sign of suffering. Dr.
Binns also relates a somewhat analogous case of one Phineas Adams, a
private in the Somersetshire Militia, where almost unheard-of torture
was resorted to for the purpose of awaking him, by men who, like the
sceptics of to-day, can believe nothing but what is of ordinary occur¬
rence. This poor wretch was—in an abnormal state—“ blistered, bled,
punctured, drenched with drastic purges,” had “ pins thrust under his
finger nails, and, to complete the process of the surgical Inquisitor,
the scalp was divided, dissected off; and the skull scraped with a
Jan. 21, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
31
scalpel.” It is recorded by Pliny, Diogenes Laertius, Valerius Maximus,
Suidas, and other writers, that Epimenides, the Cretan philosopher, when
young, going in search of sheep, feel asleep in a cave, and did not wake
for fifty or fifty-seven years (both periods being mentioned), which case
beats Rip Van Winkle hollow. Under ordinary circumstances, to take
fifty years out of a man’s life for sleeping at a spell would be to make a
considerable reduction from the time allotted to his existence on earth.
In the case of Epimenides, however, he lived to the age of a hundred
and fifty-seven years, and, therefore, had a pretty long life after all.
THE BURNING OF AN ENTRANCED PERSON.'
In many cases the condition of sleep has approximated so nearly in
appearance to death that premature interment has taken place. Pliny
informs us that Aulius Aviola, having fallen into a trance, was supposed
to be dead. Preparations were made for the obsequies; he was carried
to the funeral pile and the fire lighted, though he was all the time con¬
scious, but unable to move or speak. At length the agony of the antici¬
pation of death, or perhaps the acute pain of burning, broke the spell
in which the voluntary organs were bound, and he called aloud to those
around the pile. But, alas! it was too late to save him. The flames
had taken uncontrollable possession of the inflammable pyre, which, fed
by the oils copiously heaped upon it, blazed with great fury; and thus
the temporary disenchainment of his voice served only to inform his
friends that they had burned him alive. The Praetor Lamio met with the
same fate, but Talero, who had also been Praetor, was more fortunate ;
he alarmed his friends just in time for them to snatch him from the
greedy flames.
DANGER OF PREMATURE INTERMENT OF ENTRANCED INDIVIDUALS.
A case is related in the Psychological Magazine, in which a young
woman, who for a long time had been confined with a nervous derange¬
ment, gradually failed, until at last it was supposed by her attendants
that she was dead, but, in fact, she had only fallen into a trance, from
which she recovered when the burial service was nearly completed, and
the coffin lid was about to be nailed down. During the whole period
she was cognisant of her condition by the senses of hearing and touch.
It seemed to her, she said, as if she were in a dream, and that she was
really dead, yet she was perfectly conscious of all that happened around
her in this dreadful state. She distinctly heard her friends speaking
and lamenting her death at the side of her coffin; she felt them pull on
her dead-clothes and lay her in it. This feeling produced a mental
anxiety, which was indescribable. She tried to cry, but her soul was
without the power, and could not act in her body. She had the contra¬
dictory feeling, as if she were in the body and not in it at the same time.
It was equally impossible for her to stretch out her arm or to open her
eyes or to cry, although she continually endeavoured to do so. The
internal anguish of her mind was, however, at its utmost height when
the funeral hymns were begun to be sung, and when the lid of the coffin
was about to be nailed on. The thought that she was to be buried alive
was the one that gave activity to the soul, and caused it to operate on
her corporeal frame.
Dr. Duncan, of Edinburgh, relates the case of a “female who was
about to be interred alive. She heard the conversation of the persons
present, endured the horrors of seeing her own body prepared for the
grave, of being laid out and the toes tied together, and the chia and
jaws enveloped in a bandage, but when her agony reached a certain
point the spell was broken, she shouted and was saved.” Dr. Dun¬
can considered this a case of catalepsy, but Dr. Binns more correctly
thinks it one of trance.
In these two extraordinary cases it is evident that the several
senses were keenly alive to external impressions.
In the following instance the patient was, so far as can be deter¬
mined, unconscious of all about her. “ Mrs. Godfrey, sister to the
great Duke of Marlborough, had been for a long time ill, in conse¬
quence of anxiety brought on by the recent death of the Duke, but
one Sunday, fancying herself better than usual, determined to rise
and go to chapel. Probably from unaccustomed exertion, or absolute
debility, as she was dressing for that purpose she fell down, and to
all appearance, expired. The screams of her attendant, and a lady
who was in the room with her, brought Colonel Godfrey to their assist¬
ance, who probably having seen persons similarly attacked, directed that
she should be immediately put to bed, and that two persons should sit
up constantly with her till positive symptoms appeared of dissolution.
The opinion of the physician was that life was extinct, and his friends
entreated Colonel Godfrey to allow her to be interred, but he resisted all
their persuasions, continuing firmly to adhere to his first resolution until
the Sunday following, when exactly at the same hour as the syncope,
asphyxia, or trance had attacked her on the preceding Sunday, signs of
returning animation were perceived in the body, and she awoke just as
the church bell was ringing for service, which so perfectly eradicated,
says the authoress, every trace from her memory of her insensibility,
that she blamed her attendants for not waking her in time to go to
church, as she had proposed to do. Colonel Godfrey, taking advantage
of her unconsciousness of what had occurred, gave orders that she
should by no means be made acquainted with what had happened, lest
it should make a melancholy impression on her mind, and it is sup¬
posed that to the day of her death she remained ignorant of the in¬
fliction.”
At Athens, in order to meet cases of this kind, the law required
that no person should be buried until the third day after death, and
in most of the cities of Greece a funeral did not take place until the
sixth or seventh. This would hardly, however, be sufficient to meet
the case of such instances as those I have named. The Romans
appointed officers to visit the dead, in order to see that life was really
extinct.
VOLUNTARY TRANCES.
One of the most singular facts which has ever happened in connection
with trance, is the power possessed by certain persons, voluntarily to
I bring on a condition approximating so nearly to death, as to render it
(! difficult to tell whether dissolution has not really taken place. The case
H of Colonel Townsend is perhaps one of the most remarkable that we
11 have on record, as taking place in this country, at all events. This man
j j possessed the power of stopping completely the action of the heart, and
thus simulating death, a power wliich one gentleman with whom I am
{\ personally acquainted says he possesses, but which it is only fair to say
11 1 have never seen him exercise. Colonel Townsend’s case is recorded
(i as follows by the late Dr. Cheyne, of Dublin, and when we take into
{j consideration the deservedly high estimation in which Dr. Cheyne was
II held as a practical physician, possessed of high talents and scientific attain-
(j ments, and the high character he bore as a Christian man and a gentleman,
] it is impossible to have had the Colonel’s interesting and uncommon
) j case attested and recorded more satisfactorily. Dr. Cheyne narrates the
|| case as follows:—“ He could die or expire when he pleased, and yet by
j an effort or somehow he could come to life again. He insisted so much
)! upon us seeing the trial made, that we were at last forced to comply,
j i We all three felt his pulse first, it was distinct, though small and thready,
j i and his heart had its usual beating. He composed himself on his back,
j and lay in a still posture for some time; while I held his right hand,
| Dr. Baynard laid his hand on his heart, and Mr. Skreine held a clean
| looking-glass to his mouth. I found his pulse sink gradually, till at last
| I could .not feel any by the most exact and nice touch. Dr. Baynard
| could not feel the least motion in the heart, nor Mr. Skreine perceive the
least soil of breath on the bright mirror he held to his mouth. Then
) | each of us by turns examined his arm, heart, and breath, but could not
| j] by the nicest scrutiny discover the least symptom of life in him. We
||l reasoned a long time about this odd appearance, as well as we could,
11 i and finding he still continued in that condition, we began to conclude
! i that he had indeed carried the experiment too far, and at last we were
|)j satisfied that he was actually dead and were just ready to leave him.
This continued about half an hour. By nine in the morning in
| I autumn, as we were going away, we observed some motion about the
iji body, and upon examination found his pulse, and the motion of his
I j | heart gradually returning. He began to breathe heavily and speak
jjl softly. We were all astonished to the last degree at this unexpected
! [ change, and after some further conversation with him and among our-
ih selves went away fully satisfied as to all the particulars of this
j i fact, but confounded and puzzled and not able to form any rational
jjl scheme that might account for it.”
\p. THE TEMPORARY INTERMENT OF ENTRANCED INDIAN FAKIRS.
j | The most remarkable cases on record of this character and those of
j j | the fakirs of India, who seem to possess the power of simulating death
j j so perfectly that they actually consent to be buried and to remain
ijj entombed for a considerable period. The tales told of these men are
ijj so extraordinary, that they would seem perfectly fabulous did we not
m know from strong and conclusive evidence that they are based upon
ijl fact. The late Mr. Braid, of Manchester, took a great deal of trouble
iji in investigating the cases, and published a little volume con-
i i taining conclusive evidence of their truth. I should have been glad to
ij| have made some lengthy extracts from this little book, had my time
| j | permitted ; but I intend hereafter to reprint the entire volume, probably
iji in the Spiritual Magazine. The following case occurred under the eye
|j; of Lieutenant A. Boilleau, a British officer, and is recorded in his
iji Narrative of a Journey in Rajwarra, in 1835, and is that referred to
iji above by Sir C. E. Trevelyan. “ Just before our arrival at Jesulmer,
I i the Rawul had adopted a most singular expedient to obtain an heir to
i) i his throne, and the circumstances of the case are altogether so extra-
1 ordinary that we should hardly have given them credence, had they not
occurred so immediately under our notice. We were told soon after our
coming that a man had been buried alive of his own free will, at the
back of the tank close to our tents, and that he was to remain under
; j i ground for a whole month before the process of exhumation should take
|j| place. The prescribed period elapsed on the 1st of April, 1835, and in
: j i the forenoon of that day he was dug out alive, in the presence of Goshur
|ji Lai, one of the ministers who had also superintended his interment.
| i The place in which he was buried is a small building of stone, about
i i twelve feet long and eight feet broad, built on the west edge of the large
| | tank called Gurressie, so often mentioned. In the floor of the house
i j was a hole about three feet long, two and a half broad, and the same
i j I depth, or perhaps a yard deep, in which he was placed in a sitting
ijl posture, sewed up in a linen shroud, with his knees doubled up
iji towards the chin, his feet turned inward towards the stomach,
|ji and his hands also pointed inward towards the chest. The cell or
;j| grave was lined with masonry, and floored with many folds of
| | woollen and other cloth, that the white ant and such insects should be the
|j| less able to molest him. Two heavy slabs of stone, five or six feet long,
| ; several inches thick, and broad enough to cover the mouth of the grave,
i j | were then placed over him, so that he could not escape; and I believe
|j| a little earth was plastered over the hole so as to make the surface of
|j | the ground smooth and compact. The door of the house was also built
; 1 i up, and people placed outside to mount guard during the whole month,
|j| so that no tricks might be played or deception practised.. . . Lieutenant
| j | Trevelyan and I set off together to see what might remain to be seen.
|)| The outer wall of the house door had been broken up, the covering of
| j | the grave removed, and the covering lifted out in the presence of Goshur
I Lai. The moonshee arrived in time to see the opening of the shroud
as above mentioned, and stated that he was taken out in a perfectly
senseless state, with his eyes closed, his hands cramped and powerless,
his stomach very much shrunken, and his teeth joined so fast together
that the bystanders were obliged to force open his mouth with an iron
instrument in order to pour a little water down his throat. Under this
treatment he gradually recovered his senses, and was restored to the
use of his limbs. . . . He conversed with us in a low gentle tone of
voice, as if his animal functions were still in a very feeble state; but so
far from appearing distressed in mind by the long interment from which
32
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 21, 1876.
he had just been released, he said that we might bury him again for a
twelvemonth if we pleased.”
THE CONDITION OP THE MIND DURING ENTBANCEMENT.
Now the condition of the mind during the period that the trance has
contintfed in these cases is, as I have already remarked, various. In
the majority of cases, I believe, the person on coming out of the trance
has no recollection whatever of anything that has occcurred during the
time that it has continued, and would therefore be said to have been in
a state of perfect unconsciousness. For my own part, however, I do
not believe that the mind is ever unconscious, but simply has in these
cases, as in some others, the bridge of memory broken down. We know
that dreams frequently escape us altogether on waking, except as to
the merest outline of that which was most vivid at the time they
occurred, and we know that sometimes a dream has gone altogether,
leaving no trace behind, until some unusual circumstance has brought
it to mind. The balance of evidence is, therefore, in favour of the
supposition that in sleep we always dream, and that with the mind
consciousness never altogether ceases. In some cases of trance the per¬
son so affected has had a most distinct recollection on awaking of every¬
thing that had transpired around his material organisation during the
whole period. And in other cases the spirit has evidently gone to roam
in other regions, and has brought back with it distinct recollections of
its experiences. There are innumerable cases on record illustrating this
fact, which will be familiar to everyone who takes an interest in topics of
this kind.
PSYCHOMETRY.
II.—Psychotnetry. This is a power of which I have had no experi¬
ence myself, and which is based upon far weaker evidence, perhaps, than
the facts which I have related respecting trance, but yet which unques¬
tionably does exist. It is extremely probable that every block of stone
or petrified fossil may contain within it, written in spiritual characters,
Which persons endowed with a certain kind of seership can read, a
tolerably accurate history, both ©f itself and of its surroundings, during
the long ages of the past. ( You will find an account of the display of
this marvellous phenomenon in a work with which you are most of you
probably familiar, untitled, Nature's Secrets, by Professor Denton.
Many other cases, however, are on record of a similar kind. As far
back as 1842 Dr. Joseph It. Buchanan, one of the most eminent philoso¬
phical writers in America, gave a course of public lectures on Anthro¬
pology, in which this subject was taken up at some length. The power
is perhaps after all not very common, but still it does exist, and there
are persons living who can read you through and through, nay, more, tell
all your past history by looking into your face, or, perhaps, even by having
placed in their hands any article with which you may have been much
in contacts Professor Brittan, in his magnificent work Man and his
Relations, remarks, V With the aid of a simple autograph, the soul-
measurer lifts the moral visor, strikes down the glittering shield and
reveals the naked falsehood that lurked behind. As the subject does
not appear to call for a statement of illustrative facts and experi¬
ments recorded at length, the circumstantial details may be omitted. A
brief reference to the following examples will suffice to show that not
only the general character and habits of thought are revealed by the
psychometrical process, but the temporary moods of the mind, the
existing thoughts, and the present action, are liable to cast their
shadows over the sensitive soul. While Mrs. Mettler was holding
a sealed letter from Dr. Buchanan, who was at that time editing the
Journal of Man, she declared that the chief study of the writer was
‘ Man in his whole nature.’ When an envelope enclosing some stanzas,
written by a convict, was placed in her hands, she observed that the
author had a double character; the sphere was unpleasant, but that
the person could ‘ write poetry tolerably well.’ A letter written by
Kossuth immediately after the delivery of a powerful speech in St.
Louis, caused her to gesticulate as if she were addressing a multi¬
tude, and this was followed by a feeling of extreme exhaustion. The
letter of an insane man who had killed bis own child occasioned sym¬
pathetic delirium and convulsions. Some irregular pencil lines and
scratches, traced by the hand of an infant child, gave no impression. A
very delicate picture on silk, painted by Miss Thomas, of Edwardsburg,
Mich., and presented to the writer, was handed to Mrs. M. under the
cover of a sealed envelope, whereupon she affirmed that the author of
the contents of the envelope had painted her idea instead of expressing
it in words.” A number of similar cases of this kind are given in Dr.
Brittan’s admirable work, and probably the power described would be
more common than it is did we live higher and more spiritual lives.
The following case will show that Zschokke possessed some such
power. “ In company with two young student foresters, I entered the
Yine-inn at Waldshut. We supped with a numerous company at the
table d'hote, where the guests were making merry with the peculiarities
of the Swiss, with Mesmer’s “Magnetism,” Lavater’s “Physiogno-
mony,” etc. One of my companions, whose national pride was wounded,
begged me to make some reply, particularly to a handsome young man
opposite to me, and who allowed himself extraordinary license. This
man's life was at that moment presented to my mind. I asked him
whether he would answer me candidly if I related to him some of the
most secret passages of his life, I knowing as little of him personally as
he did of me ? That would be going a little further than Lavater did
with his physiognomy. He promised, if I were correct, to admit it
frankly. I then related what my vision had shown, and the whole
company were made acquainted with the private history of the young
merchant, his school years, his youthful errors, and, lastly, with a fault
committed in reference to the strong box of his principal. I described
to him the uninhabited room with whitened walls, where, to the right
of the brown door, on a table, stood a black money-box, etc. A dead
silence prevailed during the narrative, which I alone occasionally inter¬
rupted by inquiring whether I spoke the truth. The young man con¬
firmed every particular. Touched by his candour, I shook hands with
him, and said no more.”
PREVISION.
The next two subjects taken up by Dr. Sexton in the paper were
somnambulism and clairvoyance, and under these heads he quoted a
great number of cases of an astounding character. He then went on
to the subject of—
Y. Pi •evision.—Of this faculty there are innumerable cases on record.
Wordsworth seems to have referred to this power in his preface to The
Excursion, where he thus invokes the presence of the spirit
Descend prophetic spirit! that inspirest
The human soul of universal earth,
Dreaming of things to come ; and dost possess
A metropolitan temple in the hearts
Of mighty poets ; upon me bestow
A gift of genuine insight.
The same power is also referred to by Campbell, in which he makes
the Seer exclaim, in defence of the prediction he has just uttered
For dark and despairing my sight I may seal,
But man cannot cover what God would reveal.
’Tis the sunset of life gives me mystical lore,
And coming events cast their shadows before.
The whole scene of the Pretender and his legions flying from the
bloody fields of Culloden are present to the mind of the seer. Among
the German peasantry the power of prescience seems to have been very
common. A collection of prophecies obtained from this source was
published in Blachtvood's Magazine for 1850, from which I select the
following: “ A Westphalian shepherd, by the name of Jaspers, a sin¬
cere and devout man, predicted in 1830, before the construction of the
first English railway, that just before his death a great road would be
carried through the country from west to east, which will be passed
through the forest of Bodelschwing. On this road carriages will run
without horses, and cause a dreadful noise. At the commencement
of this work great scarcity will prevail.... Before this road is quite
completed a frightful war will break out, in which a small Northern
power will be conqueror.”
Almost all great events in history, and frequently small ones, have
been predicted by some gifted seer. The whole future life of Joan of
Arc lay clear before her in vision in her early years—a fact which is
paralleled hundreds of times in history. There is a marvellous pro¬
phecy on record by Friar Bacon, six hundred years old, which I will
read to you. “ Bridges unsupported by arches will be made to span
the foaming current. Man shall descend to the bottom of the ocean,
safely breathing, and treading with firm step on the golden sands, never
brightened by the light of day. Call but the sacred powers of Sol and
Luna into action, and behold a single steersman sitting at the helm
guiding the vessel, which divides the waves with greater rapidity than
if she had been fitted with a crew of mariners toiling at the oars; and
the loaded chariot no longer encumbered by the panting steeds shall
dart on its course with resistless force and rapidity. Let the simple
elements do the labour, bind the eternal forces and yoke them to the
plough.” Here you perceive we have a clear prophecy of the future
discovery of the suspension bridge, the diving bell, steam navigation,
the railroad, and the steam plough.
After quoting several other very interesting cases of Prevision, Dr.
Sexton concluded as follows:—
Classical scholars will recollect the dream of Hecuba, in the first
month of her pregnancy with Paris, that she had brought into the
world a burning torch, which had destroyed her husband’s palace, and
reduced the city of Troy to ashes ; how the soothsayers explained the
dream as applying to the child not yet born; how to avert the calamity
this infant was ordered to be destroyed as soon as it came into the world,
but was afterwards exposed on Mount Ida, suckled by a she-bear, found
by shepherds, and brought up amongst peasants; and how, after all* the
prophetic dream was fulfilled literally, according to the interpretation of
the soothsayers. Not less to the point is the dream of Calphumia, the
wife of Julius Csesar, who, the night before her husband’s murder,
dreamed that the roof of the house had fallen in, and that he had been
stabbed in her arms; in consequence of which dream she vainly en¬
deavoured to detain him at home. The literature of all times, and of
every country, abounds with cases of this kind. Hence the great truth
expressed by Cicero — “ Multa oraculis declarantur, multa vaticina-
tionibus, multa somniis.'*
Such is the country over whose existence
The brooding shades of mortal doubt are cast;
Such is the realm, that, dim with night and distance
Lies unexplored and vast.
But, when the morning comes, the spell is broken,
And like a dream the wondrous record seems 5
And memory holds the solitary token
Of the dim land of dreams.
Spiritualism in South Africa.—The Cape Town newspapers have
contained much of late about Spiritualism. The Daily Standard and
Mail of December 14th last contains two columns on the subject, more
especially in relation to a £100 challenge, the winning or losing of
which by one or other of the anonymous disputants was to depend upon
the occurrence or non-occurrence of manifestations. The anti-Spirit¬
ualist stipulated that he should impose at the seance whatever conditions
he pleased. Of course, for a man ignorant of experiments to say that
they shall be carried out in his own way, instead of by compliance with
the conditions demanded by the laws of nature, displays little sense.
Secondly, he assumes a tone of authority, and seems to think that the
spirits are bound to try to convert him; they sometimes say that they
have withheld manifestations when they were able to produce them in
the presence of self-important people, because spirits are not the servants
of every upstart.
33
Jan. 21, 1876. THE SPIRITUALIST.
MORAL DIVISIONS AMONG AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS *
BY EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
Spiritualism, as misrepresented in the lives, sentiments,
and language of some people, is as humiliated as Christi¬
anity is by others, and, like the latter, it is capable of
being used as a cloak for excesses which are abhorrent to
just and virtuous minds, and also, like Christianity, it has
its Judases to betray it, its Peters to deny it, and from out¬
side its Sauls to persecute it. There is nothing so exalted
or so pure that it is secure against simulation and misrepre¬
sentation. Yice affects virtue ; ambition and pride ape
humility; the rogue affects honesty; demagogues claim to
be patriots ; politicians to be statesmen; there are usurpers
as well as legitimate kings; the mock sun strives to share
the glories of the true; Christ had His antichrists, and even
God Himself is counterfeited by a host of false gods.
When we consider that it costs less to cover our sins with
the cloak of religion than with the mantle of charity, we
cease to wonder at the free use which has been made of this
means of concealment, both in the churches and by some
Spiritualists. The desire for gain prompts some to assume the
garb of the devotee, and when they perceive no other avenue
open to them, these rush into Spiritualism. There were
many like these in the time of Jesus, and He understood
them well, and to these He addressed the words:—
“Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye seek me not because ye saw the
miracles, but because ye did eat of the loaves and were filled.”
These are the hangers-on of Spiritualism, those who prey
upon it, and are one of the objectionable elements that must
sometimes be encountered.
For men to avail themselves of the benefits flowing from
the knowledge of spiritual truths, they must educate them¬
selves in spiritual knowledge, or they must be educated by
others. The first class of minds—those who can educate and
improve themselves without direct teaching—is in the
minority; and hence it follows that the majority, in order to
gain any considerable advantage from their belief, must be
taught and directed by those who are competent to teach
them.
At present, as it always has been in the past, the majority
of professed believers in all faiths, from lack of original
mental capacity, or from deficient or defective education,
are unable to comprehend the essential principles of the faith
they profess. This applies to Spiritualists, as well as to
believers in other systems; and hence we observe all grades
of mental and moral character among Spiritualists.
Spiritualism is no more responsible for the vagaries of the
fanatic, who on the housetop proclaims his absurd concep¬
tions of Spiritualism, than the Church is for the old-
fashioned camp-meeting antics of this fanatic’s grandfather,
from whom, perhaps, he has inherited his disordered mind.
This man, and thousands like him, have invaded the field of
modern Spiritualism with the influx of pioneers, and are
displaying all the unrestrained impulses of their enthusi¬
astic natures; but they are steadily subsiding under the
psychologising influence of stronger and better balanced
minds. Minds like theirs constitute the fermenting prin¬
ciple in all new systems of religion, and in many reforma¬
tory movements in their early stages, and serve a wise and
useful purpose; but after a system becomes established, their
weak mentality invariably becomes absorbed in the mass,
and they lose their noisy pre-eminence.
a The attempts,” says Epes Sargent, “to make Spirit¬
ualism responsible for the heresies and vagaries of certain
persons calling themselves Spiritualists are manifestly un¬
just. Accusations are often brought that Spiritualism
teaches free-love, pantheism, socialism, etc. As well say
that the Newtonian philosophy teaches these things. Spirit¬
ualism is no more responsible for nominal Spiritualists than
Christianity is for nominal Christians, among which last
may be counted Free-love Anabaptists, Mormons, and the
brigands of Italy.”
Hudson Tuttle, the inspired author of some of the ablest
works on Spiritualism, in reference to this subject, very truly
says:
“ Too often the ignorant accept the vague utterance re¬
ceived from a moving table, answering they know not by
* From Crowell's Primitive Christianity and Modern Spiritualism, Vol. II.
what force, or of a medium, as infallible authority, and
henceforth their lives are tinged by its influence. They gain
the self-conceit of being specially ordained for missions; they
ventilate their insanities from the rostrum ; they crowd the
press with their drivelling vagaries, they put their conceits
into their lives, and become insufferable nuisances.
“ Hence flows the flood of ‘ communications ’ from the
4 great departed ’ which would disgrace a country school-boy
as compositions. Their bad grammar and rude style might
be referred to imperfect ? control,’ but they have a singular
want of common sense and ideas, and the sceptic pertinently
inquires if Washington, Webster, Clap, and Parker have
become drivelling idiots. If any cause be capable of bring¬
ing these worthy individuals to earth, one would think the
‘ communications ’ to which their names have been affixed
were sufficient. It is not to be supposed for a moment that
those worthies dictated such messages. Possibly they may
communicate; but if they do they assuredly will stamp their
individuality on their sentences, and not content themselves
with the stereotyped trance rigmarole, with here and there
an old platitude glittering in comparison with the surround¬
ing verbiage.
Such minds are not in harmony with wisdom, and can no
more appreciate true words and sentiments than an ear
out of key with the melody of one of Beethoven’s sonatas
can appreciate its beauty. They are often so ignorant, con¬
ceited, and deluded, that they cannot understand that any
attention their inane productions attract, only serves to show
their folly in a stronger light. It was to such that Paul
said :
I have fed you with milk, and not with meat, for hitherto ye were not
able to bear it, neither now are ye able. (1 Cor. iii. 2.)
But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those
who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good
and evil. (Heb. v. 14.)
There are in most cities, and in some towns and villages
in this country and Great Britain, halls hired and paid for
by a few believers, where all who desire to do so can
attend, no questions being asked as to the faith of any, so
that any person can profess to be a Spiritualist, and no man,
or association of men, is authorized to question such profes¬
sion. Is it then in any way surprising that some who are
fanatical, ignorant, and even depraved, should claim to be
Spiritualists? But as no authority admitted such persons,
and as the great majority of Spiritualists condemn their
sentiments and conduct, Spiritualism should not in any way
be held responsible for them, nor for the mischief they effect.
To condemn Spiritualism and its teachings, because a few
like these, through their ignorance and grossness, attract evil
influences, and misrepresent it, is as irrational as to condemn
preaching because some preachers degrade it, and some
hearers pervert it
Because a person witnesses some experiments in chemistry,
or hears or reads a lecture upon that branch of science, we do
not regard him as a chemist, nor hold chemistry responsible
for anything he may say or do in its name. We claim for
Spiritualism similar immunity from responsibility for the
sayings and doings of those half-witted, deluded, or knavish
persons who thrust their crude and visionary ideas upon the
notice of the public, regardless of knowledge and discretion,
and sometimes even of decency. It should be understood
that simple belief in Spiritualism makes a man neither
better nor worse; something more is required to either
improve or vitiate him.
Then again, many professed Spiritualists, having been
educated in the churches to denounce all who differ from
them in belief, have, in embracing Spiritualism, left their
Church dogmas behind, but not the illiberal habits of
thought originating in their education, and they are now
turning against the old fortress the instruments of warfare
with which they were originally armed for its defence. They
are, unconsciously to themselves, living up to the illiberal
teachings instilled into their minds by sectarianism, and in
their methods of viewing and treating the faith they have
abandoned are to be seen the legitimate fruits of the
uncharitable spirit inculcated in their youth. They mistake
the spirit of our faith as they formerly did that of the
Christianity they professed. They believe Spiritualism to
be revolutionary, while it is only reformatory.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 21, 1876.
84
All good in this life is associated with evil, and if it be a ||| some quarters now made against Spiritualists, were then
necessity inherent in its nature that Spiritualism shall be free | ] made against Methodists. Wesley, in replying to a letter
and unrestricted in the field of its operation, with no walls of HI of the Rev. Mr. G , says : u You therein say : I know
exclusion, no conditions for acceptance, it is to be expected ||J numbers who call themselves Methodists, and assert their
that many “ vain talkers and deceivers, . . . who subvert jjj assurance of salvation, at the very time they wallow in sins
whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for || of the deepest dye.” Wesley replies: “Permit me, sir, to
filthy lucre’s sake, .... who profess that they know God, ||. speak freely. I do not doubt the fact; but those who are
but in works deny Him, being abominable and disobedient, jjj connected with me do not call themselves Methodists.”—
and unto every good work reprobate,” should creep in and jjj Tyerman’s Life of Wesley, vol. ii. p. 400. Wesley thus
become stumbling-blocks to many right-minded men. jjj thrusts aside the imputation, leaving it to rest upon the
Thus it was in the times of the Apostles, and thus it always jjj followers, probably, of Whitefield and others labouring in the
has been, even when rigid rule and precept ostensibly i j same field.
determined what should constitute the qualifications of j j Wesley, in the same volume, p. 362, is reported as saying of
members of the fold. j j the Bristol Society : “As many of them increase in worldly
The temple of Spiritualism is capacious enough to shelter j j goods, the great danger I apprehend now is their relapsing
all who enter its portals, and all the different planes of j j into the spirit of the world, and then their religion is but a
humanity are represented by its votaries, so that those whose ; j dream.”
highly-developed moral and spiritual natures demand asso- They were not exempt from the infirmities of human
ciation with others of like development, can always find con- in nature any more than Spiritualists now are, and these
genial souls with whom to associate, and those who are jjj infirmities often triumphed over their faith and carried them
sufficiently advanced in love and wisdom to find their highest jjj back to carnal things. At Launceston he (Wesley) found “ the
enjoyment in efforts to elevate those less fortunate than jjj small remains of a dead, scattered society, and at Camelford
themselves, will here find a vast and spiritually profitable j jj he found another such society, but their deadness was owing
field for the exercise of their highest faculties and powers. j j to bitterness against each other.” At St. Agnes he was “sur-
We claim for Spiritualists no greater average merit than jj| prised and grieved to find that out of ninety-eight members
we accord to ordinary Christians; but we claim superiority jj! all but three or four had forsaken the Lord’s table.” At St.
in this, that while the restrictions of church organisations jjj Just, at one of his meetings, an “ abundance of backsliders
suppress but do not eradicate evil, the unrestricted freedom jjj were present, ten of whom he rejoined to the society.” “ He
of Spiritualism permits the evil which it cannot suppress to j j found the society at Plymouth reduced from seventy mem-
work to the surface, and to properly appear in all its ij bers to thirty-four, and even these were as ‘dead as stones.’ —
deformity, thus exciting a repugnance to it in honest but j i Same, p. 361. And on pages 141 and 142 of the same work
uncultivated minds, and arraying against it all that is j j it is said, “It does not appear that any of his preachers
virtuous and correct in others. j j withdrew from him on this account; the question was not
The state of affairs in the primitive Church does not im- j j one upon which at that time a discontented man could hope
press us that the mvcz profession of Christianity, even by j j to divide the society, and if they did not assent to Mr.
those who enjoyed the privilege of partaking of the truth so j j Wesley’s arguments, they acquiesced in his will. Seces-
near its source, necessarily endowed the professors with all j j sions, however, and expulsions from other causes not
the cardinal virtues. Paul found among the professed j j unfrequently took place, and once he found it necessary to
Christians of Crete unruly members, vain talkers, those who j j institute an examination of his preachers, because of certain
deceived, subverters of family peace, teachers of wrong doc- j(j scandals which had arisen. The person with whom the
trines for sake of gain, and one of their own prophets declared j j offence began was one James Wheatley. At first he made
them habitual liars, and Paul emphatically endorses the [ij himself remarkable by introducing a luscious manner of
accusation. Their lives were false professions, they were dis- j | preaching, which, as it was new among the Methodists,
obedient, and unto every good work reprobate. So much for jjj and at once stimulant and flattering, soon become
some of the Cretan Christians. j j popular, and obtained imitators. They who adopted it,
Even the personal influence and association of Jesus Him- Ijj assumed to themselves the appellation of Gospel preachers,
self was not sufficient to restrain Judas from the accomplish- j j and called their brethren, in contempt, legalists, legal
ment of his treachery, nor Peter from blasphemously denying jjj wretches, and doctors in divinity. ... Wheatley was a
Him; how then can we expect that all the converts made by jjj quack in physic, as well as in divinity, and he was soon
the teachings of His Apostles should arise above the gross jj! detected in fouler practices. Complaint being at length
plane upon which so many of them—probably the great |{| made of his infamous licentiousness, the two brothers
majority of them—had always existed. A change of profes- j I inquired into it, and obtained complete proof of his guilt,
sion has no necessary connection with a change of heart. We |c| ... They were not aware at the time of the extent ol this
read this lesson in the past, it is equally to be read in the |j! hypocrite’s criminality, but enough was soon discovered to
present, and as a truth we have reason to believe that it jjj make it necessary for them to disclaim him by public adver-
will have existence continuous with the earthly existence of jjj tisement. The matter became so notorious at Norwich that
man. j j the affidavits of the women whom he had endeavoured to
Modern Spiritualism resembles early Methodism in active j j corrupt were printed and hawked about the streets. The
spiritual influence being recognised in each, as well as in the ij] people were ready to tear him to pieces, as he deserved, and
fact that both, in the early period of their existence, drew jj! the cry against the Methodists was such, in consequence,
their support chiefly from the substantial, but uneducated jlj that Charles Wesley said Satan or his apostles could not
classes of society, so that many of the extravagances which jjj have done more to shut the door against the Gospel in that
drew upon the Methodists the ridicule and censure of their ijj place for ever. . . . On another occasion he remarks that
enemies, have been repeated by the same class of persons | j Cudworth, Relly, and their associates abhorred him as much
among Spiritualists, and as it was with the former, jjj as they did the pope, and ten times more than they did the
so it has been with the latter, the prudent and thoughtful j j devil.”
among them have found themselves unable to restrain the jjj Here was the revival in the ranks of the Methodists of
exaggerated views and actions of the imprudent and thought- j j the free-love doctrines and practices of some of those who
less. Wesley personally came into contact with many of this jjj professed and disgraced Christianity in its early history, and
class. Southey, in his Life of Wesley, vol. ii. p. 184, tells jjj it seems to have been the common fate of three of the
us: “But Wesley’s course of life brought him into contact jjj most important spiritual movementsinthe history of the world
with persons under every disease of mind, and in all the in- jjj —namely, those of primitive Christianity, Methodism, and
termediate stages between madness and roguery. Crazy ijj modern Spiritualism, to be soiled with an outcropping of these
people indeed found their Way to him as commonly as they j j free-love practices; buttheheavenlyhosts who under God have
used to do to court, though with less mischievous intention, jjl guided and are guiding these movements, triumph in primi-
They generally went in a spirit of pure kindness to enlighten j j tive Christianity and Methodism, and will equally triumph
him and correct his errors.” j ] in Spiritualism; for while the vile and sensual of earth can
Charges, generally unfounded, and similar to those in j j only receive the support of low and depraved spirits, truth
Jan. 21, 1876.
35
THE SPIRITUALIST.
and purity are protected and fostered by the angelic world, | |
the glorious beings of which are linked in one continuous | j
chain extending from man to Deity. j |
(l There were times when Wesley perceived and acknow- ||i
ledged how little real reformation had been effected in the jjj
great body of his followers. ‘ Might I not have expected,’ j j
said he, ‘ a general increase of faith, and love of righteousness j j
and true holiness ; yea, and of the fruits of the Spirit—love, j j
joy, peace, long-suffering, meekness, gentleness, fidelity, jjj;
goodness, temperance ? Truly, when I saw what God had | I
done among this people between forty and fifty years ago— jj
when I saw them, warm in their first love, magnifying the | j
Lord and rejoicing in God their Saviour, I could expect no j j
less than that all these would have lived like angels here j j
below ; that they would have walked as continually seeing |
Him that is invisible, having constant communion with the I
Father and the Son, living in eternity, and walking in j
eternity. I looked to see u a chosen people,” in the whole |
tenor of their conversation, <£ showing forth His praise who I
had called them into His marvellous light.” But instead of j
this it brought forth error in ten thousand shapes. It j I
brought forth enthusiasm, imaginary inspiration, ascribing to j |
the all-wise God all the wild, absurd, self-inconsistent dreams ! |
of a heated imagination. It brought forth pride. It brought | I
forth prejudice, evil surmising, censoriousness, judging and j j
condemning one another, all totally subversive of that bro- | |
therly love which is the very badge of the Christian pro- | I
fession, without which whosoever liveth is counted dead j j
before God. It brought forth anger, hatred, malice, revenge, j
and every evil word and work, all direful fruits, not of the j |
Holy Spirit, but of the bottomless pit.’. . . And he repeated j !
from the pulpit a remark which had been made upon the | |
Methodists by one whom he calls a holy man, thati never j
was there before a people in the Christian Church who had j j
so much of the power of God among them, with so little | |
self-denial.’ ”—Southey’s Wesley, vol. ii. p. 237. ! j
This is a severe, and no doubt truthful, arraignment of j |
some of his followers by Wesley, and when we occasionally j j
find an immoral person professing to be a Spiritualist, we j I
can exonerate Spiritualism from responsibility for his acts, j j
by reference to like fallibility of some among primitive and I j
modern Christians. The fault is not in the system, it |||
attaches alone to the individual, and so every honest, liberal jjj
mind must regard it. To think otherwise would be like j j
smiting the pure waters of the fountain, because some who j j
drink from it are morally unclean. . j I
Enough has been said on this suoject; for what does all j j
this evidence relating to the heresies and dissensions in the j I
primitive Church, and in the modern Church, and in the j j
ranks of the Spiritualists establish? Nothing but the simple j j
truth that human nature asserts its supremacy in defiance of jjj
forms of faith, that the ever-active spirit in man is con- I j
stantly striving for the attainment of higher purposes, and, jjj
though his efforts in a majority of instances are ill-directed, j j
and end in strife and discord, yet out of this inharmony are jjj
eliminated those concrete ideas which become jewels of j j
truth and knowledge, and which, sooner or later, are esti- j j
mated at their real value by mankind, and their influence j j
upon the welfare of the race becomes permanent.
Judge Edmonds forcibly remarked: uAll new truths, j j
when just born, have to go through such trials, which, like j j
thunder-storms, though uncomfortable, and sometimes j j
affrighting, are yet necessary, and in the end beneficial.”
Stagnant waters are ever impure. When we purpose to jjj
purify them we agitate them, and add some element which jj !
increases the disturbance, expecting that from the fermenta- i
tion thus induced there will arise to the surface, and be i j
expelled, the impurities that have rendered them turbid and j1 j
offensive. After the subsidence of this disturbance, we j j
expect to find the waters purified and refreshing. So it is '
with the gross material elements in mankind that have the j1 j
ascendency in religious, social, and moral life. The majority j j
of mankind are in a state of stagnation, and it is this stag- m
nant religious, moral, and social condition that breeds j j
ignorance and depravity, and, were it not for the disturbance i
of this condition through the agency of those vigorous religio- Ij j
reformatory measures that are occasionally applied, the world j1 j
would be stifled in its own moral and social impurities.
These antagonisms and bickerings are inseparable from
human association ; they are the perverted expression of the
universal desire for, and tendency to progression, and it is
better that this form of expression should exist, than that
apathy and blind obedience to self-constituted religious
authority should, universally prevail.
3Ptobtnciat Jictos.
LIVERPOOL.
ANNUAL SOIREE OP THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
The annual concert and soiree of the above society took place in the
Society’s Rooms, Islington, Liverpool, last Friday evening at eight
o’clock. The chair acquitted itself well, Miss Warren, Mrs. Winter,
and Miss Chatham giving the benefit of their vocal ability. The “ Bel¬
mont Vocalists ’’ did the best that lay in their power; but their best
singers were absent through misunderstanding and indisposition. Mr.
Casson ably occupied the chair, and, at request, gave some eloquent
recitations. Mr. J. J. Morse was among the Mends present.
SUNDAY SERVICES.
On Sunday afternoon and evening the platform of the Liverpool
Psychological Society was occupied by Dr. Hitchmah, Mr. Ainsworth,
and Mr. J. J. Morse. After the usual service and address by Dr.
Hitchman, Mr. Morse was controlled by his spirit-guide, and delivered
an impressive invocation, after which he observed:—It is commonly
said that this is a practical age, that all subjects, whether physical or
spiritual, physiological or psychological, are investigated with one pro¬
minent object in view; that is, What practical purpose in the economy
of well-being will they serve ? Of this he (the controlling spirit) was
rather glad than otherwise; he welcomed this tendency as an indication
of the dawn of that brighter day of knowledge that will overcome igno¬
rance and its half-sister vice, and relegate them to the oblivion of
darkness from whence they came. For the solving of this problem, he
would invite their attention for a few moments to a simple question,
which would be the title of the subject under consideration, namely,
“ For what is life?’’ The question was undoubtedly easy to put, and
had received a variety of answers more or less unsatisfactory, all in
accord, however, with the conceptions of the different promulgators,
whatever their class, school, or creed; but underlying all these answers
was one* prominent thought—to make the individual happy. Ask the
religionist and he will answer, the purpose of life is for the glory of
God, whereby certain individuals, by godliness of purpose, adherence
to certain phases of belief, popular and orthodox, may receive the
blessing of God here, and eternal happiness hereafter. The materialist
asserts that the purpose of life is that we may learn from nature her
secrets, and by applying them to the welfare of humanity, en¬
lighten and uplift our fellow-man. By increasing knowledge and
perfecting wisdom each one should labour to leave the world
a little better than he found it. When the materialist was asked,
How about a future life ? the answer was that the future life does not
concern us; we know nothing about it; our care is with this life to
make the best of it, whereby the greatest happiness may accrue to the
greatest number here. The philosopher and the poet had also furnished
answers in which the silver thread of “ happiness ” could be observed.
Thus all these thinkers were agreed that true happiness was the object
and aim of life. He would call their attention to the reverse of the
picture presented by nature herself. She appeared totally oblivious to
the happiness of man, or any of her creatures. The disastrous tornado
swept over the ocean, regardless of human life, and amidst heaving
billows and boisterous waves vessels and their struggling crews sank
from sight; the volcano had its myriad victims, and nature by earth¬
quake swallowed cities with their teeming thousands, heedless of the
pain and suffering entailed thereby. Again, human laws seemed to
be devised by man’s ingenuity for the very purpose of crushing, en¬
slaving, and making miserable, instead of promoting happiness as the
true object of life. Religious tenets also, as part and parcel of modern
theology, only seemed to aim at making a certain select few happy, at
the expense of damned thousands; and individuals that could be happy
under such circumstances must be peculiarly constituted. Thus the
force of nature, society, and religion seemed combined to render man
unhappy. Notwithstanding all this, men possessed such happiness as
their spiritual or intellectual nature permitted. Garlyle had stated that
he considered the object of life to be “ blessedness,” which he and the
lecturer considered to be superior to happiness, for doubtless all persons
possessed more or less happiness, but he conceived that blessedness
arose from the awakening of the inner consciousness to the grand
purposes of life, enabling the man to see a Providence in every mis¬
fortune, a blessing in every difficulty; nothing left to blind chance, but
a wise ordering and perfect harmony in the fitness of things, and in the
relation man bears to the universe that evolves, claims, and stamps him
her child.
BIRMINGHAM.
A SCENE AT THE ATHENiEUM.
Recently the Birmingham press, in consequence of the pro¬
gress Spiritualism is making in the town, has commenced an
onslaught on Spiritualists by means of disparaging paragraphs,
culminating in a leading article in the Birmingham Daily Mail. Mr.
Mahoney, a recent convert from secularism, determined, single-
handed, to publicly take up the subject, and answer the editor of the
Mail, which he did in a most effectual manner, on the evening of Mon-
Jan. 21, 1876.
36 THE SPIRITUALIST.
day, last week, at the Athenaeum Hall, Temple-row. The Hall was
crowded to excess, hundreds not being able to get in. There was a
rowdy element, the result being that three benches and one of the
tables were broken into atoms. So great was the interest manifested
by the packed mass of people present, that it was determined to hold
another meeting the following week in a larger hall. As Mr. Mahoney
is a good speaker, and well known among his old associates, the secu¬
larists, he generally draws large audiences, not only in Birmingham, but
other towns.
The following report of the meeting at the Athenaeum is abridged
from the Birmingham Daily Mail:—
A meeting was held at the Athenaeum Kooms, Temple-street, last
night, to hear a lecture from Mr. J. N. Mahoney, purporting to be
“ A Heply to the Editor of the Birmingham Daily Mail, or Spiritualism,
is it a Delusion ? ” The room was crowded, there being a large number
of the Spiritualistic element present, and an equally strong number of
non-believers, who had been specially invited to attend. On the plat¬
form were Messrs. It. Harper, Perks, Guy, Groom, and Fob. Mr.
Harper was voted to the chair, and, in opening the proceedings, he
explained that Mr. Aaron Franklin, of Lee Bank-road, who, it had
been stated, would preside, had written refusing to do so for reasons
which he set forth in a letter as follows:—“In declining to take the
chair at your meeting on Monday, do not for a moment suppose that I am
any the less a Spiritualist, although I choose to withdraw from any
public movement. But as I hold both the Daily Mail and its editor
in the utmost contempt, I certainly do not feel inclined to waste time
upon either him or his scurrilous articles. If you take the advice of
an old Spiritualist, you will avoid this one thing, and that is taking any
notice whatever of his challenge “to show phenomena,” as we can
well spare him from our ranks, when we can number such men amongst
us as Cromwell F. Varley, Wallace, the eminent naturalist, and others
toonumerous tomention. IwouldsuggesttohimthathetakeupDamiani’s
challenge, which has been open for years, and not one of these scurrilous
editors has had the courage to do so. Gentlemen who are courteous
enough to give others credit for honesty are not so swallowed up in their
own conceits as to suppose that they know everything and all the rest
are fools. But you have doubtless found ere this that it is the common
practice of little minds to sneer at things they have neither the com¬
prehension or inclination to fathom.” The letter occasioned consider¬
able laughter, and some applause. The chairman then proceeded to
read the leading article headed “ Credulity in Birmingham,” which
appeared in the Daily Mail of December 30th. He was interrupted
several times by shouts of disapproval from the benches immediately
surrounding the platform, and cheers from the centre and far end of
the room.
Mr. Mahoney, who met with a medley of applause and shouts of
derision, then delivered his lecture. He argued that even if the editor
of the Daily Mail or any other representatives of newspapers were
thoroughly satisfied in their own minds as to the genuineness of the
whole thing they dare not advocate it in the columns of their journals.
(Hear, hear, cries of “ No, no,” and disorder.) He contended that it
was not in the power of the press to back up any question until it
received the credit and the support of the outside public. (Applause
and hisses.) The editor of the Daily Mail dare no more do such a thing
than he dared hang himself. (Laughter, and “Oh, oh.”) The only
organs of enlightenment—the organs which advocated popular questions
—were those organs which were supported purposely with that object.
We had two in this country—one called The Spiritualist—(Laughter)—
published at 2d., and the other called The Medium, issued at Id. (Hear
and laughter.) He was much surprised at the remarks which the editor
of the Mail made upon the general aspects of the question. For in¬
stance, he said “It rests upon nothing.” This seemed very strange,
and it would indeed be a wonderful thing if true, considering that
Spiritualism had existed for twenty-seven years and numbered upwards
of five million adherents. The lecturer said it was one of the greatest
mistakes made to suppose that Spiritualism consisted entirely in the
rapping of a table, or the moving of some piece of furniture. It was
the educated and the educated alone, amongst whom the truth of its
existence spread fastest. Those who were supposed to be ignorant and
deluded were the last to take it. It was not true that persons could
summon spirits up—the spirits could rather summon them up. (Laugh¬
ter.) In 1869, the Dialectical Society in London thought the subject of
Spiritualism of sufficient importance to elect a committee of thirty
gentlemen to investigate the phenomena. Sub-committees were ap¬
pointed, and sittings were held which extended over eighteen months,
during which time some startling manifestations took place, which could
not be accounted for by any known laws of science or three-fourths of
the sceptics present, intimately, finding how matters had gone, the
society who had promoted the investigation actually refused to publish
the results of the eighteen months’ research. This only proved that the
Dialectical Society, in common with the press, only desired not to put
down authoritatively what the bulk of the people were not convinced of.
He considered it an act of gross injustice. The lecturer concluded by
advising all present to make experiments at their own homes, and they
would probably be much the wiser. He would not give them the result
of his own experience, as many in the room would no doubt disbelieve
all he said. (Laughter.)
The Chairman having made a few strong observations in support of
Spiritualism, a person at the farther end of the room suggested that Mr.
Mahoney should recount a few facts which he himself had met with,
so that they might all go away instructed upon the subject. (Hear,
hear.)
Mr. Mahoney, responding, said he was at a seance in Liverpool, at the
house of Mr. Coates, Queen’s-road, a short time ago, at which the
medium Mrs. Hardy, of America, was present. About thirty highly
respectable people sat round a table eight feet by four feet, in the centre
of which was a slit. They all joined hands, including the medium, and
after about a quarter of an hour’s waiting, and in open daylight, a hand
—sensible to sight as was his own to that meeting—came “ bobbing up
and down.” (Loud laughter.) They might laugh, and he had told them
that they might not credit what he said, nevertheless it was true, the
manifestation he had alluded to being the result of materialisation.
Mental questions were propounded and answered by knocks upon the
table, and he (Mr. Mahoney) himself was drawn by the spirit hand with
the strength of a 40, 50, or 601b. weight. The people in the room were
moreover at liberty to look underneath the table whenever they desired
to do so, so that there could be no mechanical contrivances or conjuring
about the matter, and nothing but a true exhibition of spiritual phe¬
nomena. (“ Rubbish,” and “ Hear, hear.”)
Mr. Rhodes rose to oppose the principles of Spiritualism. He urged
that no one science could possibly be opposed to another, yet
Spiritualism was thoroughly opposed to all known sciences.
He ridiculed what were called the wonderful orations of spiritualistic
mediums.
Mr. Mahoney said darkness was quite unnecessary for the holding
of a seance, and he advised all to make experiments at home in open
daylight.
Here a gentleman rose and remarked that some time ago avisitor to Bir¬
mingham undertook to show the people what Spiritualism was. He en¬
gaged Curzon Hall, and in an entertainment introduced a table which
knocked when required, and produced marvellous “ manifestations.”
The exhibitor, however, explained very carefully that the whole
thing was accomplished solely by the aid of electricity. (Laughter, and
Hear, hear.)
In reply to a question, the chairman said he could undertake to say
that no Spiritualist had ever objected to a certain number of gentlemen
making thorough investigations in the dark rooms at sianccs. In proof
Of this, he might say that there were at least ten persons present at
that meeting who, in a dark room in this town, had—some of them forty
times at the lowest computation—felt the touch and heard the continued
existing personality of Mr. Benjamin Hawkes, of New-street. (Loud
laughter.) They were all of them spirits, whether they liked it or not
—(Laughter)—and were liable to be developed into mediumship in some
direction or other.
Mr. T. H. Aston, a freemason, challenged the chairman, or any per¬
son in the room who had been present at such stances, to come forward
and give the “ grip ” to him.
After some slight disturbance, in the course of which it was humor¬
ously suggested that a sitting should be held on the ground by the whole
of the company, Mr. Mahoney announced that the chairman was quite
willing to meet Mr. King at any appointed time. As far as he (Mr.
Mahoney) was concerned, he had only been a Spiritualist 18 months,
but he had seen sufficient in three months to convince him of the truth
of the thing. (“ Give us some proof.”) If they wanted proof they would
have to search and investigate for it, as he had done.
It was then decided that Mr. Harper and Mr. King should meet and
fully discuss the subject at an early date, and the meeting shortly after¬
wards separated amidst some disorder.
Mr. J. H. Gledstanks is now in London.
The Newcastle Critic contains an impartial article on Spiritualism.
Mr. Cogman writes that he has received the following contributions
towards his work in East London ; Mr. R. C., 10s. 6d., Mr. W., 10s. 6d.,
Mr. Y., 10s. 6d., and Mr. P., 10s. 6d.
We have been requested by the honorary secretary of the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, to call the attention of the
members of that society to the circumstance that important business
will have to be considered at its half-yearly general meeting next
Thursday, as set forth in an advertisement on another page.
Mr. John Care, of 3, Grange-terrace, Leyton, Essex, writes to say
that a young man at the east end of London, named Raby, has been
annoimcing himself as a medium, and has recently been detected in the
presence of about a dozen witnesses, including Mr. Carr, acting the
part of a sham ghost. On detection he made no defence, but asked not
to be exposed. Mr. Carr writes that towards the close of last month
he sent full particulars of the exposure of imposture to the Medium
newspaper for publication.
An Amiable Fiend.—The special correspondent of the Daily Tele¬
graph in. India says of the Kandys, a savage hill tribe:—“Livingin
huts which can be built in an hour, and making their cooking utensils
mainly from the leaves of trees, the household arrangements of the
Veddahs are not such as to call for any serious preparation. When
a young man falls in love with a maiden he first of all obtains her
consent, then waits upon her parents, who only demand that he shall
present their daughter with a piece of cloth. He assents, the cloth
is produced, the lovers become husband and wife at once, and re¬
main so. There is no religious ceremony, for of religion the Yeddah
has no idea. The only supernatural being of which he has any
notion is a devil, which, by the way, is a very respectable sort of
fiend indeed, and not at all so implacable and bad as our Western
Beelzebub. The Yeddah’s demon is really only a misguided person,
who is fond of mischief; and when, therefore, anybody falls ill, his
friends get some jaggery or native sugar, a little piece of cocoa-nut,
and any other luxury which circumstances permit of, and, placing it
on a leaf, dance round it till they think the Satanic anger is appeased.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
E. W. Baldwin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, U.S.A.—The paper of which you
speak has not come to hand.
We have received Hull’s Crucible (Boston) of January 1st.
Jan. 21, 1876.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “THE SPIRITUALIST"
NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY,
LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the_ author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent b09k of absorb-
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Gd.;
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 16s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, i by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
• published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal¬
lace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U.S. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. Cd.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums, also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychicl Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions . relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritual¬
ism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Yols., crown 8vo., 16s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
inediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of all the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions." 6s. Gd.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 6s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supernaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ;Science; the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. 12mo.,
600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s Gd.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
this extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the early history of geological
specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
Inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumsliipof Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made.by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a|trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. “The Prophecy of Vala,”. published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote Jduring the whole
of his life on earth. Best edition, gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through,
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. Gd.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and the phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. Gd.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM. MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
6s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A. Danskin, 4s. Gd. "
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. Gd.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s Gd.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with the Mastodon,
and details the history of his subsequent development. 7s. Gd.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. Gd.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), Gd.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), Gd.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M.P. 2s. Gd.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. Gd.'
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols.,
I2s. -
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. Gs.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 5s. Gd.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. Gd.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. OONANT.' 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES,by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. Cd.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. Gd. _
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. •
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. od.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 9s.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. Gd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 26s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M. A. 4s. Gd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle. 6s. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
5g
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by - Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. Gd.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists, is. Paper, Gd.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott. Gs.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record of Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. Gd.
STORIESOFINFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET.—3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. Gs.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONU ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase
4s. Gd.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. Gs.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post.
6s. Gd.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM,PSYCHOLOGY, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.
—Continued.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER By 0. M. Bumett. M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. Gd.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, - by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gained the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. fid.) 4s. ;
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer."
Nature’s Divine Revelations
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia
The Teacher. ,,11. . . '
The Seer. ..Ill, „
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . .
The Thinker. „ V. „, .
Magic Staff; An Autobiography of A. J. Davis
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land
Arabula, or Divine Guest .
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology.
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual ,
Death and the After-Life . . ,
History and Philosophy of Evil
Harbinger of Health , .
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for che Age
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.)
Philosophy of Special Providence .
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse
The Inner Life ; or, Spirit Mysteries Explained
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings
Tale of a Physician ; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology .
Morning Lectures .
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
16 0
3 G
7 6
5 0
7 6
2 0
3 G
3 G
T G
3 G
7 G
2 G
3 G
7 G
G 0
7 0
7 0
d.
24 0
. 18 0
12 G
15 0
G
Oriental Religions (Johnson)
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recom¬
mended by Tub Spibitualisi Newspaper . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on’Buddhism (Eitel) . . .60
History of American Socialisms-.(Noyes) .
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) .
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal)
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 A.D.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.Ay Trin. Coll., Cam. . 10 G
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge, D.D. . . . . . . . 10 G
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter¬
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind.’; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics, by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex¬
planation of the Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism,
Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion,
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . ' 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B. A . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. . . . . . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale . . . . , . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.RAS.
Special edition for Schools . , , . .10
CARTE DE YISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten: 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE YISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Galea
Forster. A useful Iract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear, is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. Gd.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman of Education and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE.OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is m it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” Gd.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
THEODORE PARKER IN SPIRIT LIFE. Given
inspirationally through the mediumship of Dr. F. L. H. Willis.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young. Gd.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d.
ALL ABOUT . CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. Gd.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM, by Dr. R. T.
Hallock. 2a.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
Jan. 21, 1876.
TESTIMONIAL TO MR. W. H. HARRISON.
Committee.
Martin R. Smith, Esq.
Charles Blackburn, Esq.
Sir Chas. Isham, Bart.
Baroness Adelina von Vay.
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory.
H. D. Jencken, Esq. M.R.I.
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq, M.S.
Tel.E.
N. F. Dawe, Esq.
Miss Pouglas.
Eugene Crowell, Esq., M.D.
Mrs. Honywood.
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgen-
stein.
Alexander Calder, Esq.
Alexander Tod, Esq.
Mrs. Eate Fox-Jencken.
Cromwell F. Varley, Esq.,
F.R.S.
James Wason, Esq.
Epes Sargent, Esq.
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
James Mylne, Esq.
Secretary and Treasurer,
Martin R. Smith, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
Since the year 1869 Spiritualists have been indebted to Mr.
Wm. H. Harrison for the excellent journal of which he is the
editor. This journal has been a credit and strength to the
movement in every respect. It has been printed in clear type
and on good paper, and has been conducted with ability,
caution, courage, and public spirit. It is hardly necessary to
say that up to the present time the paper has been by no
means self-supporting; indeed, during the first three years of
its existence it entailed upon Mr. Harrison a very heavy loss,
which he bore single-handed. This loss was aggravated by
the fact that, in order the more completely to devote his
attention to the Spiritualist newspaper, Mr. Harrison volun¬
tarily relinquished a censiderable portion (estimated, upon
reliable information, at an average of not less than £200 per
annum) of the income which he was deriving from literary
work on the Engineer newspaper and other journals. Mr.
Harrison has indeed done more than this, for during the past
eight years he has given up one or two evenings every week
to a practical observation of spiritual phenomena at seances.
By his unwearied and intelligent observation he has been
enabled to collect a mass of reliable information as to the facts
and principles of Spiritualism, which fits him in the highest
degree to be the editor of a newspaper devoted to the religious
and scientific aspects of the subject
It is a matter of notoriety that the Medium newspaper,
which was inaugurated the year after the appearance of the
Spiritualist, has been annually subsidized by large subscrip¬
tions, which its editor, Mr. Burns, has always called for as
justly due to his exertions. "Whilst we fully acknowledge the
services which have been thus rendered to Spiritualism, we
would call attention to the fact that no appeal to the public for
help has ever, except upon one occasion, and that fora special
purpose, appeared in the pages of the Spiritualist for six years.
The work was done, and the whole expense borne for three of
those years by Mr. Harrison alone; during the last three years
an annual sum of about two hundred pounds has been privately
subscribed by a few friends, which has, doubtless, greatly
relieved the burden upon the shoulders of Mr. Harrison, but
this in no way touches the fact that Mr. Harrison has for years
cheerfully submitted to a heavy pecuniary loss in order to
supply to the movement a paper in many, if not in all, respects
worthy of it.
The undersigned ladies and gentlemen are of opinion- that
it is not to the credit of the. movement that this pecuniary
loss should be borne alone by Mr. Harrison.
Had he appealed to the public for subscriptions, they would
doubtless have been forthcoming, as they have been for some
years past in answer to the appeals of the Medium ever since
its establishment—but he has not done so.
It is proposed, therefore, that a subscription, in addition to
the existing Guarantee Fund, shall be opened, which shall take
the form of a testimonial to Mr. Harrison, and which, it is
hoped, may to some extent, relieve him from the heavy
sacrifices which he has made in money, time, and work in the
interests of Spiritualism.
Friends desiring to contribute to this fund are requested
to send in their names to Martin R. Smith, Esq., care of Miss
Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
List of Subscriptions to January 5th, 1876.
Mr. Martin R. Smith  £50 0 0
Mr. Charles Blackburn    50 0 0
Mr. J. N. T. Martheze     50 0 0
Mr. James Mylne     40 0 0
Mr. Alexander Calder    20 0 0
A Friend         20 0 0
Mr. Alexander Tod       , 20 0 0
Comte de Bullet        20 0 0
Mr. N. F. Dawe         15 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart.  10 0 0
Mr J. M. Gully, M.D    10 0 0
Prince Emile Sayn-Wittgenstein    6 0 0
F S A 5 5 0
mV. ‘c,'£*varieyi’F.RVsl*!!!'!!!’.‘.!!!!’"'.‘.'.’.!‘.!’.'.!!’.!’.’.!’.’.!"!! 5 o o
Mr. Eugene Crowell, M.D.    5 0 0
Mrs. Louisa Lowe   5 0 0
Mr, Charles Massey     5 0 0
Mr. Desmond Fitz-Gerald   5 0 0
A Friend            5 0 0
Signor Damiani v    3 3 0
Mrs. Honywood          2 2 0
' Mr. Morell Theobald      2 2 0
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S,    2 2 0
Mr. S. Chinnery   |    2 2 0
Mr. S. Templeman Speer, M.D,    2 2 0
“ Ennesfalien "         2 2 0
Three Friends     2 2 0
Col. Olcott.,          ti  2 0 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory       2 0 0
Mr. Epes Sargent    2 0 0
Dr.Baikie    2 0 0
Miss Douglas        2 0 0
M. H. C.i        2 0 0
M. Gustave de Veh      2 0 0
Mr. Geo. Sutherland    2 0 0
Miss Anna Blackwell   2 0 0
Mr. Eeningale Cook         1 11 6
Mr. Geo. King        110
Mr. F. A. Binney      110
Mr.-J. Coates     .....i..  110
Mrs. Maltby         110
Mrs. Elslingbury     110
Mr. B. W. Pycock      110
Mr. B. Coleman        110
Mr. R.Fitton'    110
Major Menars    1 1.0
Mr. John Lamont         110
Mr. Archibald Lamont     110
Mr. T.B. Griffin    110
Mr. J. B. Stones        110
Mr. J. Regan         1 10
Mrs. Regan        110
Mr. G. "W. F. "Wiese      110
Rev. W. Whitear       110
Miss Whitear      110
Mr. C, E. Williams    11 0
Mr. A. Glendinning        110
Mr. H. Withall         110
Captain James..     110
Mr. F. W. Percival       110
Mr. Christian Reimers      110
Mr. Thos. Hinde   110
Mr. Thos. Grant    110
Mrs. Geo. Neville   110
Mr. G. R. Tapp   1 1 0
Mr. J. Clark Ferguson        110
Mrs. Woodforde   110
Mr. T. M. Simkiss      110
A Friend     ;    110
A Friend, per Miss Williamson    110
Mr. W. P. Adshead      110
Mr. D. H. Wilson      110
Mrs. M. T. Wood,      110
Mr. John Scott       110
Mr.C.T. Hook   110
Mr. W. White  110
Mr. E. D. Rogers     10 0
Mr. R. Corbet  10 0
M. B |   10 0
Baroness von Vay       10 0
Dr. W. M. Buchanan     10 0
Miss E. D. Ponder    10 0
A Subscriber     10 0
Amicus      10 0
Mr. A. C. Swinton       10 0
M.A. (Oxon.)  10 0
Mr. J. H. Gladstones  10 0
Mr. Geo. Lee     0 10 6
Mr. W. E. Bassett   1   0 10 6
Mr. T. H. Edmonds   0 10 6
Mr. Aaron Franklin     0 10 6
Mrs. Aaron Franklin     0 10 6
Mr. J.S. Crisp           0 10 0
Miss F. J. Theobald   0 10 6
Mr. St. George Stock  ..,  0 10 0
Mr. Geo. Blyton        0 10 0
Mr. G. H. Potts  0 10 0
j. f. c :   j    0 10 0
Mr. Algernon Joy *    0 5 0
Miss Kislingbury     0 5 0
“Peterboro”          0 5 0
A.O. W  0 5 0
Miss Emily FitzGerald       0 5 0
A Clergyman      0 5 0
A Reader of The Spiritualist     0 5 0
Mr. Wm. Robinson     0 5 0
Mr. E. Pearce      0 5 0
Small sums     .....i  0 5 3
Just published in one volume, handsomely got up, and printed
on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY
OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an
Angel in the tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—ThetTnity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences
in the Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
. , 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
,, 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Part 1.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron's Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an ac¬
count of the Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby,
with her experiences in the other life, up through the states
to the tenth in which she is now in, and communicates as the
Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a
full account concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo-
printed, of the Angel, the original of which was produced by
the direct operation of Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of are
of such thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense
to make it a handsome volume, and not being published with
any regard to profit, it is hoped that a large circulation may
be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s.
On sale at The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 88,
Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
First Edition.
IMPORTANT NEW PUBLICATION.
INFORMATION FOR INQUIRERS INTO SPIRIT¬
UALISM.
A PAMPHLET, the full size of The Spiritualist, containing a
large amount of information, compiled especially for inquirers,
will be shortly issued from The Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office at 38, Great Russell-street, London, for sale at public
meetings,
PRICE ONE PENNY.
There has long been a demand for some such publication
as this, the current spiritual newspapers not always containing
the most suitable or most condensed information for persons
to whom the subject of Spiritua'ism is a strange one.
Many thousands of copies of the publication will be printed,
and kept on sale by vendors of 'spiritual literature, and at
spiritual meetings throughout the country.
From the large circulation thus secured, it will be a
VALUABLE CHANNEL FOR ADVERTISEMENTS
To Mediums, Mesmerists, Authors of Spiritual Books, and
others. The charge for advertisements will be One Shilling
for the first twenty-five words, and Sixpence for every addi¬
tional twenty-five words, or portion thereof. Displayed adver¬
tisements Five Shillings per inch.
All advertisements should be sent in as soon as possible, as
the publication will come out in a few weeks’ time.
Special arrangements will be made to supply local societies
with copies at a cheap rate, if ordered in large quantities; the
said societies may thus considerably increase their income by
the profits on sales.
All communications on this subject should be addressed to
the Editor of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-street, Blooms¬
bury, London, W.C.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist
may obtain it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titularre dn Kiosque,
246, Boulevard des Capucines, Paris.
npHE ALPHA; OR, THE FIRST PRINCIPLE
I OF THE HUMAN MIN D; A Revelation, but no Mystery,
with Spiritual Advent and Steel Portrait of the Author,
E. N. Dennys. “We can call to mind few boobs fit to be its
fellows.’’—Alhenxum. “It contains more truth, poeiry,
philosophy, and logic, than any work we have ever read
it is a new revelation, and one of the most remarkable produc¬
tions ever given to the world.”—Cosmopolitan.
Also just published, with a beautiful Engraving of the Author
470 pages, on toned paper, handsomely bound, price 8s. Gd.
rpHE RELIGION OF LIFE, AS EXEM-
JL PLIFIED BY THE MAN JESUS CHRIST, a Series of
Lectures, by the author of “ Alpha.” A synopsis of the topics
may be obtained free on application.
CONTENTS:—What is Evil? Charity; Poverty—its Evils
and its Mission; The Divinity that Dwells in Man; The Church
of the Future; “Stand up! I myself also am a Man;" The
Path of Righteousness; Trust in God; Self-Trust; What is
Christianity? Thy Kingdom Come! What is Man ? The “one
thing” desired by the Psalmist; Pure Religion; Philosophy;
Tbe Childhood of Jesus; Religious Liberty; Election and
Grace; Time; Sin; Law the Regenerator; The Last Judg¬
ment; God is not Mocked; The Unchristian Character of
Riches; Peace; Religion Consists in Action; The Millennium,
and how to obtain it.
The work is also published in nine parts, eight at 4d. each
and one at 6d., done up in neat wrappers.
“THE UNCHRISTIAN CHARACTER OF RICHES" and
“RELIGION CONSISTS IN ACTION” are also published
separately at Id. each.
*** The cordial aid of the friends of education, intellectual
progress, and religious liberty is earnestly solicited to make
these works os widely known as possible. They contain the
most important of all knowledge, by a deep and original
thinker, and will be supplied at cost price for extensive circu¬
lation. They have been brought out in a variety of forms to
suit the means of all classes of readers.
Published by E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.
Now Ready, pp. 592, demy 8vo, handsomely hound, extra
cloth, 10s., by post, Us.
HAFED, PRINCE OF PERSIA. His expe¬
riences in Earth-Life and Spirit-Life, being Spirit
Communications received through Mr. David Duguid, the
Glasgow Trance Painting Medium, with an appendix, contain¬
ing communications from the Spirit Artists, Ruikdal and
Steen.
Illustrated by Fac-similes of Forty-five Drawings and
Writings, the direct work of the Spirits.
From numeroos eulogistic expressions of opinion by sub¬
scribers, the publisher has much pleasure in giving the
following from S. C. Hall, Esq.;—
Avenue Villa, 50 Holland-street, Kensington, W.
December 27, 1875.
Dear Mr. Nisbet,—You have sent me a most wonderful
book. It has given me intense delight. I cannot exaggerate
if I say I have never yet read a book that has given me such
deep and delicious joy—with only one exception, The Book,
which this book so thoroughly upholds. Surely it will be so
with all who believe in and love the Lord Christ. . . . Blessed
be the God of love and mercy, who sent him to reveal and to
elucidate the great truths of the Gospel. Mrs. Hall is reading
it now. But I must read it again, and yet again. It will
companion the Now Testament that stands at my bed-head,
and in which I read a chapter every night. Send me two
more copies.... Burns says it is cheap: it is worth its weight
in diamonds. But I wish it had been in two volumes.—Ever
truly yours, S. C. Hall.
London: James Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.O. Glas¬
gow : H. Nisbet, 219, George-street.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
rpHE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
-a- oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ists in all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. C. F- Varley, C.E, F.R.S.; Mr. "William
Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the “Quarteiir Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause); Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wies¬
baden); The Countess of Caithness: the Duke of Leuchtenberg;
Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen (New York); Mr. Epes Sargent;(Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat): Mi’s. Mak¬
dougall Gregory: the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Peters¬
burg) ; the Baroness Adelina Yay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D. (Edin.);
Mr. J. 0. biixmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India): Mi’s.
Hollywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn: Mr.
St. George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author of
the “Life of Swedenborg”): Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D., author of “Unorthodox London"; Mr. S. O.
Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law: Mr.
Algernon Joy; Mr. D. ill. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
bury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson, M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the UnitedlKingdom, 10s. lOd.
To residents in the United States, "4 dols. 17 cents per annum, which
may be paid in to Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-place,
Boston, U.S., and their receipt forwarded to “ The Manager,
Spiritualist Newspaper Office, 38, Great Russell-street, London,
W.C.”
[December, 1876.]
Just Published. Price 2s.
CALIFORNIAN HOMES FOR EDUCATED
ENGLISHMEN. A practical suggestion for a model
colony—Congenial English society, lovely scenery, a deligbtful
climate, and the most fertile of soils. By Frederick A. Binney
London: Simpkin, Marshall and Co.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing "Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn,
in the Parish of St. Andrew above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr. London, and published by E, W. Allen, Avo
Maria-lane, London, E.C.
