Registered as a Newspaper.]
S' V i) J 0 \J rv >r S 1/ 0 F ¥ H Y C J10 l.Oii 1 OS I< ^ C I !•< X C I'!.
W$ jrxmir^deb toitlj Sphiiualism nt <S|^t §rifahr.
THE SPIRITUALIST is regularly on Sale at the following places :—LONDON : n, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s Churchyard, E.C. PARIS: Kiosque, 246, Boule*
■ vard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de Lille. LEIPZIG: 2, Lindenstrasse. FLORENCE: Signor G. Parisi, Via della Maltonaia. ROME: Signor Bocca,
Libraio, Via del Corso. NAPLES: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja, opposite the Villa Nazionale. LIEGE: 37, Rue Florimont. BUDA-
PESTH : Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse. MELBOURNE: 96, Russell-street. SHANGHAI: Messrs. Kelly & Co. NEW YORK: Harvard
Rooms, Forty-second-street & Sixth-avenue. BOSTON, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18, Exchange-street. CHICAGO : “ Religio-Philosophical Journal”
Office. MEMPHIS, U.S.: 225, Union-street. SAN FRANCISCO: 319, Kearney-street. PHILADELPHIA: 918, Spring Garden-street. WASHINGTON:
No. 1010, Seventh-street. ■
No. 245. (Vol. X.—No. 18.) LONDON: FRIDAY, MAY 4, 1877. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
Contents.
Conditions Favouring Good Spiritual Manifestations,..;1... 205
Joseph Wolfif’s Visions... ...   ... ... ... ...205
The Knowledge of Time in the Mesmeric Sleep. By the
Late William Gregory, F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemis¬
try at Edinburgh University 206
Materialisation Phenomena. By the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Portugal 207.
The English Bible:—The Translators Charged with Fa¬
vouring Witchcraft... ../ ... ... ... ... ...209
Experiments in Mesmerism  ...    ...f: ... ... 210
Mr. Gladstone on Spiritualism ... ... - ... ...; ...  211
Musical Entertainment at the Rooms of the National
Association of Spiritualists... ... '   ... 211
The Rev. Canon Gilbert on Spiritualism   ... ... 211
“ Everettism ”...’   •’ ... ...• ... ...211
Original Researches in Psychology. No. Ill, By T. P.
Barkas,. F.G.S.:—^Description of a Seance—Conditions
of the Spirit World—Speech and Singing—Written
Records—True Riches—Acquisition of Knowledge-
Incredulity Everywhere—Schools apd Colleges—Avo¬
cations and Social States—The Struggle for Existence
—Matter and its Properties^-SConoluding Remarks ... 212
Poetry: — Fashionable Grief ’’for the Departed — Dress
Religion   ... i ,.V ... ...     213
Correspondence:—Canon Gilbert on Spiritualism 215
The History of the Liverpool Psychological Society 216
Answers.tdCorrespondents...    ...    ... 216
Paragraphs: — Vivisection 209 ; Anti-Vaccination, 211;
Mr. J. J. Morse’s Appointments, 215; Spiritualism in
Liverpool, 215; The Aldershot Ghost 115
“THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER :
A Record of the Progress of the Science and Ethics of
Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
nnHE. SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the
oldest Newspaper connected with the movement in the
United Kingdom, and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritual¬
ises m all the English-speaking countries throughout the Globe; it
also has an influential body of readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and
more experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks
of Literature, Art, Science and the Peerage. Among those who
have published their names in connection with their communica¬
tions in its columns are Mr. O. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.; Mr. William
Crookes, P.R.S., Editor of the “Quarterly Journal of Science” (who
admits the reality of the phenomena, but has, up to the present time,
expressed no decided opinion as to their cause) f Mr. Alfred R.
Wallace, President of the Biological Section of the British Associa¬
tion for the Advancement ol Science (1876): Prince Emile de
Sayn-Wittgenstein (Wiesbaden); the Bight Hon. the Countess of
Caithness :xHis Imperial Highness Nicholas of Russia (Duke of
Leuchtenberg); Mr. H. G. Atkinson, F.G.S.: Lord Lindsay: the
Hon. Robert Dale Owen (formerly American Minister at the Court
of Naples); Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld (Holstein); Mr. Gerald
Massey; Le Comte de Bullet: the Hon. J. L. O’Sullivan, formerly
American Minister at the Court of Portugal; Mr. 0. O. Massey,
Barrister-at-Law; Mr. George C. Joad ; Dr. Robert Wyld; Mr. T.P.
Barkas, F.G.S.; Mr. Serjeant Cox, President of the Psychological
Society of Great Britain; Mr. Alexander Calder, President of the
British National Association of Spiritualists; the Rev. J. Tyer-
man' (Australia); Mr. Epes Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles
Isham. Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church (Florence Marryat); Mrs. Mak-
dougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial
Councillor, andChevalier of the Order of St. Stanislas (St. Petersburg);
the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H. M. Dunphy, Barrister-
at-Law; Mr. C. Carter Blake, Doc. Sci., Lecturer on Comparative
Anatomy at Westminster Hospital; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer,
M.D. (Edin.); Mr. J. C. Luxmoore: Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India);
Mrs. Honywood; Mr, Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn;
Mr. St. George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason ; Mr. N.
Fabyan Dawe: Herr Christian Reimers ; Mr. Wm. White (author ot
the I* Life of Swedenborg ; Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C.
Maurice Davies, D.D.. author of “ Unorthodox London ”: Mr. S. C.
Hall, F.S.A.: Mrs. S. C. Hall; Mr. William Newton. F.R.G.S. ;
Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Algernon Joy,
M.Inst.C.E.: Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LL.M.; Mr. 0. Constant
(Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss Kisling-
tmry; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris): Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles '(United States): Mr. W. Lindesay
Richardson,‘M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
Annual subscription to residents in the United Kingdom, 10s. lOd. ;
to the United States and Australia, I3s., post free.
The Spiritualist is regularly on sale at the following places
London: 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Panl’s-churchyard, E.C.
Paris: Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des Capucines, and 7, Rue de
Lille. Leipzig: 2, Lindenstrasse. Florence: Signor G. Parisi,
Via della Maltonaia. Rome: Signor Bocca, Libraio, Via del
Corso. Naples: British Reading Rooms, 267, Riviera di Chiaja,
opposite the Villa Nazionale. Liege: 37, Rue Florimont.
Buda-Pesth: Josefstaadt Erzherzog, 23, Alexander Gasse.
Melbourne: 96, RusseU-street. Shanghai: Messrs; Kelly and
Co. New York: Harvard Rooms, Forty-second-street and
Sixth-avenue. Boston, U.S.: 9, Montgomery-place, and 18,
Exchange-street. Chicago: Religio-Philosophical Journal Office.
Memphis, U.S.: 225, Union-street. San Francisco: 319,
Kearney-street. Philadelphia: 918, Spring Garden-street.
Washington: No. 1010 Seventh-street
All communications on the business of The Spiritualist
should be addressed to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great RusseU-street, London, W.O.
April, 1877,  
Just published, price 7s. 6d.
THE RELIGION OF JESUS compared with
THE CHRISTIANITY OF TO-DAY. By FeedebioK
A. Binney.
London: E, W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS,
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, W.O.
Agenda for May, 1877.
Tuesday, 8th.—Correspondence Committee, at 5.45 p.m.
' „ ' „ Finance Committee', at 6 p.m.
„ „ Council Meeting, at 6.30 p.m.
Friday, 11<A—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 16rt.—Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m.
Friday, 18th.—Soiree Committee at 5 p.m.
„ „ House and Offices Committee, at 5.30 p.m.
„ „ Experimental Research Committee at 6,30
p.m.
Thursday, Mth.—Seance Committee, at 7 p.m.
Friday, 25</i.—Experimental Research Committee, at 6.30
p.m.
Monday, 28th.—Library Committee, at 7 p.m.
„ „ Fortnightly Discussion Meeting, at 8
p.m.
Tuesday, 29fA—Annual General Meeting of Members,
at 6.30 p.m.
SEANCES.
Seances for Inquirers are held every Thursday evening at 8
p.m. Tickets to Members, Is.; and Seances for Members and
Subscribers only every Tuesday evening, at 8 p.m. Tickets,
2s. 6d. Applications for tickets must always be made in
advance.
A Series of Trance Seances, Mr. E. W. Wallis, medium, are
held every Saturday afternoon, at 3 p.m. Admission to
Members and Friends, Is.
EAST END SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION,
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
THE next QUARTERLY TEA-MEETING
will be held on Sunday, May 6th. Tea on the table at
5 p.m. Tickets, Is. each. To be followed by an open meeting,
Which will be addressed by normal and trance speakers.
Early application for tickets should be made to prevent dis¬
appointment. The first Wednesday evening in every month
will in future be devoted to experiments in mesmerism with
a view to obtaining the phenomena of clairvoyance more
generally -than at present in the spirit circle.
E. W. Wallis, Manager.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
OFFICES—6, Loughborough-road-north, Brixton.
The object of the society is to promote the study of
Psychology and Spiritualism, and kindred subjects.
For information as to rules of membership, &c., &c,, apply
to—
  H. E, FRANCES, Hon. Sec.
THE EIGHTH QUARTERLY CONFERENCE OF
THE LANCASHIRE COMMITTEE.
THIS Committee will hold their Eighth
Quarterly Conference in the Temperance Hall, Grosvenor-
street, Manchester, on Sunday, May 6th, 1877. The morning
sitting (10.30) will be devoted to the secretary’s report and
the election of officers for the ensuing quarter. The afternoon
(2.30) will be devoted to general speaking on “ The Pro-
pagandism of the Movement.” In the evening (6.30) Mr. John
Lament, of Liverpool, will give an inspirational address.
Tea will be provided in the Hall. 
Just published, 2s. paper covers; 3s. cloth.
LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE: described
by a Spirit through a Writing Medium.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.C.’
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRIT-
UALISM EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney.
Third Edition. Price 3s. ‘
 LONDON:—SlMPKIN, MARSHALL <fe CO. ~ 
Now ready, in 8vo., cloth bound, price 16s.
LIGHTS AND SHADOWS OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM. By D. D. Home. “Light, more light.”—
Ooethe.
London: Virtue & Co. (Limited), 26, Ivy-lane, Paternoster-
row.
BRIGHTON.—The Spiritualist may be ob¬
tained in Brighton of Mrs. Beal, East-street, and Mr.
Bray, St. James’s-street
MR. J. W. FLETCHER, Clairvoyant and
Trance Medium, No. 14, Southampton-row. Seances
attended at residence if desired. At|home 11 to 5. '
THREE SHARES, value £100 each, in a
private Syndicate or Company, composed mainly of
Spiritualists, FOR SALE on most advantageous terms. The
holder is reluctantly compelled to part with them under
special circumstances. Full particulars to be obtained of X.,
care of the publisher of The Spiritualist, 38, Great Russell-
street, London, W.O,
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF INQUIRERS
INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ESTABLISHED 1870.
In alliance with the British National Association of Spiritualists
HENRY D. JENCKENV ESQ., M.R.I.
{Barrister-at-Law, Member of Council and Honorary Secretary
of the Association for the Reform and Codification of
the Law of Nations.)
Vice-President.
MRS. AMELIA CORNER.
COUNCIL.
Mr. Thomas Blyton, Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Alfred E. Lovell, Mrs. M. Theresa Wood,
Mr. Jonathan Tozeland, Mr. John Rouse,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Honorary Secretary & Treasurer—Mr. Thomas Blyton.
Rooms—74, Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
The objects of this Association are to collect well-authenticated
facts aflecting Spiritualism; to offer facilities to investigators; and,
by various means, to induce inquiry into Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday
evenings, at 7.45 p.m. The last Thursday evening in each month is
devoted to special stances with professional media, lectures, discus*
sions, reading of papers, or narration of experiences of investigators.
In addition to the weekly meetings and seances, Members of the
Association have) the privilege of attending, the public seances of
several well-known professional mediums on payment of reduced
fees, particulars of which can be ascertained on application to the
Honorary Secretary; and, also, of utilising the well-stocked Library,
comprising numerous standard works on Spiritualism and kindred
subjects. All the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines aro
regularly supplied to the rooms for the perusal of Members.
Copies of the prospectus, rules and regulations, directions “ for
ormation of circles and conduct of seances,” and library catalogue,
with any further information, can be obtained on application to the
honorary secretary. ■ 1
Subscription for Ordinary Membership .-—Annual, 10s.; half-
yearly, 5s.; quarterly 3s, All subscriptions payablein advance.
The quarterly payments are due on the last day in the months
of March, June, September, and December respectively.
Life Membership:—Persons approving of the purposes of
the Association, and desirous of aiding the same, can become
life members on payment of a minimum donation of £2 2s.
EASTLONDON SPIRITUAL INSTITUTION
15, ST. PETER’S ROAD, MILE END, E.
Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening at seven.
Admission free; voluntary contributions. Developing circles
held on Mondays at eight, application by letter. Open seance
on Wednesdays at eight. Quarterly subscriptions to admit to
both circle and seance, 5s. 6d.; for seance only, 2s. 6d.
E. W. WALLIS, Manager.
CARDIFF.—FREE LIBRARY of Scientific
and Spiritual Literature, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff. Ad¬
dress, G. Sadler, 157, Bute-road, Cardiff.
Leigh spiritualists’ association
MEETING ROOM.—Any books and pamphlets relative
to Spiritualism will be thankfully received and duly acknow¬
ledged for the above Association Room, by George F. Turner,
Brown-street, Leigh, Lancashire.
BIRKBECK BANK.—Established 1851.—
29 & 30, Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane, W.C.
DEPOSITS received at INTEREST for stated periods or re¬
payable on demand. On Current Accounts, Interest allowed
on the minimum monthly balances. Cheque Books supplied,
and Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued.
The Bank undertakes the custody of Securities of Customers,
and the Collection of Bills of Exchange, Dividends and
Coupons. Stocks and Shares purchased and sold and
advances made thereon.
Office Hours from 10 till 4, excepting Saturdays, then from
10 to 2. On Mondays the Bank is open until 9 in the Evening.
A Pamphlet with full particulars, may be had on application.
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
HATCHAKD’S duplex funeral cars
(Used open or closed), Silver-mounted, Violet or Oak Fanels«
Plated Harness, &c.
Inventors, Patentees and Builders,
S. HATCHARD & CO.,
FUNERAL FURNISHERS,’ &0.
Chief Office:—
47, CRAWFORD ST., BRYANSTON SQ., W.
Funerals conducted in accordance with the views of Spirit¬
ualists. Coloured Palls supplied. Personal attendance at any
address on receipt of letter or telegram.
Publishing Office: 13, Red Lion-court, Fleet-street;
London, E.C.
THE AMATEUR WORLD.—A monthly
journal devoted to non-professional literature, drama,
music, sports, &c. Chas. L. Wellsden, Editor and Proprietor,
1, Castledine-road, Anerley, S.E,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 4, 1877,
li
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OP
SPIRITUALISTS.
(Established 1873.)
President.
Alexander Gadder, Esq., l, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Coleman, Beniamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs.,19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, Warwick-square, S.W. .......
Jencken, Henry D., M.B.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-build-
ings. E.C.
Massey, C. C., Barrister-at-law, 96, Portland-place, W.
Bogers, E. D.,Kose-villa, Church-end, Finchley,N.W
Smith, Martin It., Heatnlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-
road. South Hampstead. N.W.
Wason. James. Wason’s-bulldings, Liverpool.
Wyld, Geo., M.D., 12, Great Cumberland-place, Ilyde-park, W.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House, Belper.
Armflekl, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-rd., New Wandsworth, S.W.
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Barkas, T. P., Central Exchange, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Bennett, Edward T., The Mansion, Kichmond Hill,
Binney, F. A., 24, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 159, Eglinton-street, Glasgow.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Coffin, W. H., 94, Cornwall-gardens, Queen’s-gate, S.W.
Colley, Kev. Thos., 11, Belle Yue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, LL.D., 1, A’dam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Cook, Mrs. E., 1, Adam-street, Adelphi, W.C.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Yanbrugh-park-road, Black-
heath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
Dodd, J. T., Lynwood, Southern-hill, Beading.
Edinands, T. H.. 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Fitton, B., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-rd, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road, North Brixton,
S.W.
Glendinning, A., 4, Castledine-road, Anerley-road, S.E.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Bochdale.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Spencer-terrace, Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-
park, S.E.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport-hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred, E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 41, Marylebone-road, W.
Mawson, Wm. Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.C.
Meers, W. D., 20, Tredegar-road, Bow-road, E.
Morse, J. J. Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs., 21, Church-road, Waterloo, near Liverpool.
Newbould, Bev. W. W., 118, Albany-slreet, Begent’s-park, N.W.
Pearce, fiichard, 8, Fassett-road, Dalston, E.
Beimers, Christian, 2, Ducie Avenue, Oxford-road, Manchester.
Bogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, Bose-villa, Church-end, Finchley, N,
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, 84, Bedcliffe-gardens, West Brompton,
S.W.
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N., 84, Bedcliffe-gardens, West Brompton.
Stock, St. George W., M.A., 14, Queen-street, Oxford.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., 62, Granville-park, Blackheaih, S.E.
Tredwen, B. Pomeroy, 40, Claverton-street, Pimlico, S.W.
Walhouse, M. J., 9, Randolph-crescent, Maida-vaie, W.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-st., Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Hemlock-house, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H. M.A., LL.M., Poste Bestante, Algiers.
Wiseman, Mrs^, 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin B. smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Auditors.
Mr, J. E. Andre. Mr. H. Cook.
Mr. Morell Theobald.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 88, Great Bussell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de TUnion, 67, Bue du Midi,
Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Bue de Vienne, Brussels.
Z. Test,Esq., M.D.,Union Springs,CayugaCo.,NewTork, U.S.A.
Le Comte do Bullet, Hotel de VAthenee, Rue Scribe, Paris.
J. L. O’Sullivan, Esq., 80, Upper Gloucester-place.Dorset-square,
London, N.W.
Captain B. F. Burton, F.R.G.S., H. M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
A. R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S., Rosehill, Dorking.
Isaac B. Rich, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mdlie. Huet, 173, Rue St. Honore, Paris.
W. S. Godbe, Esq., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Dr. Grunhut, Waitzner Boulevard, 57, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dr. A. E. Nehrer, Eperjes, Hungary.
J. W. Day, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
Mrs. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S.W.
Dr. R. Hallock, 54, Denbigh-street, Belgrave-road, S. W.
Signor Damiani, Salita Pontecorvo, 60, Naples.
Dr. Puel, 73, Boulevard Beaumarchais, Paris.
Herr J. H. Stratil, Modling, 18, Bruhler-strasse, near Vienna.
M. Cochet, Bue Tanger, Algiers.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—S. Pride, Esq.,
8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane. Liverpool.
L’Union Spirite et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121,
Rue de Louvain, Brussels.
The Brixton Psychological Society. Hon. Sec.—H. E. Frances,
Esq., 22, Cowley-roan, Brixton, S.W.
The Spiriter-Forscher Society, Buda-Pesth. Secretary, M. Anton
Prochaszka, Josefstadt Erzherzog Alexander-gassc, 28,
Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Dalston Association of Enquirers into Spiritualism. Hon. Secretary,
T. Blyton. Esq., 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E.
The Cardiff Spiritual Society. Hon. Sec., H. C. Emery, Esq., St.
Mary-street, Cardiff
Sociedad Espiritista Espanola, Cervantes 34, 2°, Madrid. Presi¬
dent—El Visconde do Torres-Solanot.
Sociedad'Espirita Central de la Republica Mexicana. President—
Senor Befugio T. Gonzalez, 7, Calle de Amedo, Mexico.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OE SPIRITUALISTS.
38, GREAT RUSSELL STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON.
This organisation, comprising several hundred members,
has public offices, a reading-room and library, with a secretary
in attendance to receive visitors and answer inquiries. Seances
can be attended by recommendation from a member. Terms,
for use of library and reading-room, one guinea per annum.
THE LIYERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1877.
President.—William Hitchman, Esq., M.D.
Vice-President.—John Priest, Esq.
Secretary.—Mr. Samuel Pride, 8, Grampian-road, Edge-lane,
Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Edward Nock,
Auditors.—Mr. Charlton and Mr. Chatham.
Trustees.—Mr Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Chapman, and
James "Wason, Esq.
Executive Committee.—Mrs. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hulley, Mrs. Nos¬
worthy, Mrs. Wharmby, Mr. Ainsworth, Mr. Casson, Mr.
Davies, Mr. Foden, Mr. Fowler. Mr. Jones, Mr. A. Lament,
Mr. J. Lament, Mr. Norris, Mr. Richard Nosworthy, and
Mr. Wharmby.
THE object of this Association is the discovery
of truth in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following
measures, or such of them as from time to time are found to
be practicable.
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference,
inquiry, instruction, mental improvement, spiritual culture,
social intercourse, and healthful recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for
the purpose of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual
powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public
discussion, lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit com¬
munion.
January, 1877.
Republished from The Spiritualist for July 14th.
SPIRITUALISM IN THE BIBLE IDENTI¬
CAL With modern spiritualism. By f. j.
Theobald. Price 2d.
His Imperial Highness Nicholas, Duke of Leuchtenberg, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-
Catnp General de S.M.I. de 1’Empereur Bussie, Vevey,
Switzerland.
Ahmed Rassim Pacha, Khan de Bassim Pacha a Bahdjd Capoussou,
Constantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria,
via Gratz, Austria.
The Baroness Guldenstubbe, 29, Bue de Trevise. Paris.
Colonel Don Santiago Bassols y Folguera, Madrid.
El Visconde de Torres-Solanot, Madrid.
The Hon. Alexandre Aksaxof, Russian Imperial Councillor,
Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirckinck-Holmteld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
Mme. de Veil, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Lake George; New York, U.S.A.
J. M. Peebles, Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co.,New Jersey,U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 18, Avenue du Boi de Borne, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs, Emma fiardinge-Brltten, 118, West Chester Park, Boston.
U.S.A.
A. J. Riko, Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
M. C. Constant, Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maxmilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne,
Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg Univer¬
sity, Germany.
W. Lmdesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96,
Russell-sfreet, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor C. Wittig, Esq., KornerstrassC 2b, Leipsic, Germany.”
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Bue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq,, Box 2,985, Boston, U.S A.
11. T. Child, Esq., M D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York,
U.S.A.
M.F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A,
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq,, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vemon-street. Philadelphia,U.S.A.
J, H. Gledstanes, Esq., Merignac, Gironde, France.
Samuel Chinnery, Esq., 2. Rue de Rocroi, Paris.
Bev. Samuel Watson,Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq., 9, Montgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.; W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, W.C.; F. J. Theobald,
18, St. John's-road, Lewisham High-road, S.E.
PRIMITIVE CPIRISTIANITY AND MODERN
SPIRITUALISM.
By EUGENE CROWELL, M.D.
One of the best hooks published in connection with Modem
Spiritualism for many years, and a standard work on the
subject. The author has studied the facts and phenomena for
a lengthened period, and deals in an intelligent manner with
the problems and difficulties presented.
In two vols, price 10s. 6d. each; postage 8d. per volume.
London: Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office.
REVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etndes psycho-
logiques, fonde par Allan K&rdec, appears on the 1st
of every month. Price, 1 franc. Published by the SocUti
Anonyms, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post-Office orders payable
to M. Leymarie.
CURATIVE MESMERISM. — PROFESSOR
ADOLPHE DIDIER, Consulting Mesmerist (thirty years
established) attends patients and may be consulted daily at
his residence, 10, Berkeley-gardens, Campden-hill, Kensington.
THE BANNER OF LIGHT: The oldest
journal devoted to the Spiritual Philosophy in the
world 1 Issued weekly, at No. 9, Montgomery-plaoe, Boston,
Mass. Colby and Rich, publishers and proprietors. Isaac B.
Rich, business manager; Luther Colby, editor: aided by a
large corps of able writers. The Banner is a first-class, eight-
paged family paper, containing forty columns of interesting
and instructive reading, embracing a literary department
reports of spiritual lectures, original essays—upon spiritual,
philosophical and scientific subjects; editorial department
spirit-msssage department; contributions by the most talented
writers in the world, &c., &c. Terms of subscription, in
advance, 15s. per annum; Spiritualist Newspaper Branch
Office, 38 Great Russell-street, London, W.C.
MRS. OLIVE has a FREE SEANCE for
Healing every Monday morning at 11 punctual. The
Public Seances on Tuesday 7 o’clock and Fridays 3 p.m.
are discontinued, but Spiritualist friends are admitted as
usual at those hours. Private consultations by arrangement,
one guinea. Trance, clairvoyance, healing, development, &c.
Established seven years. Residence, 15, Ainger-Terrace, King
Henry’s-road, N.W. Close to Chalk Farm Station.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational
TRANCE SPEAKER, is prepared to receive calls as
usual, to lecture in London or the provinces. All Letters
to be addressed to him at Warwick Cottage, Old Ford-road,
Bow, London, E.
MDLLE. HUET, good Medium for Raps.
At home from 12 to 5 o’clock. 173, Rue St. Honors,
Paris.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, W.C.
At home daily from 12 till 5. On Monday, Thursday and
Saturday evenings from 8 o’clock, for reception of friends.
Address as above.
Brighton. — apartments, pleasant
rooms, may be had, on moderate terms, at the house of
a Spiritualist, close to the sea, and near the Aquarium, Chain
Pier, Pavilion, &c. Address, “Spiritualist,’’ 18, Atlingworth-
street, Marine Parade.
MRS. BURKE’S
BOARDING HOUSE FOR SPIRITUALISTS,
8, UPPER BEDFORD PLACE, RUSSELL SQUARE, W.O
The . long-expressed want of a metropolitan centre where
Spiritualists, visiting London can secure domestic comforts
without the inconvenience of a public hotel, has, by the
generous efforts of friends of the Cause, led to the establish¬
ment of the above Private Boarding House. It is con¬
veniently located for the principal railways, and is in the
very area of the spiritual movement. Its arrangements have
been designed with a special view to the requirements of
Spiritualists.
Applications should be made as far as possible in advance.
Manager—Mrs. A. O. Burke
Mrs. WELDON’S ORPHANAGE.—
“ Grannie’s Nursery Rhyme Book ” will be published
as soon as Mrs. Weldon has obtained 500 subscribers at 5s. It
will be illustrated, and will contain thirty original tunes in all
the different keys. (The words of several of them are also
original.) Two are by Ch. Gounod, also a hymn at the
beginning of the book. “Souvenir,’ Ch. Rawlings, &eM will
also contribute, but the greater number are by “Grannie"
herself. Mrs. Weldon sells everything which is given her, for
the benefit of the Orphanage. Gifts of old clothes are likewise
most acceptable; Address, Mrs. Weldon, Tavistock House,
Tavistock-square, W.O.
SPIRIT PEOPLE.
A scientifically accurate description of Manifestations
recently produced by Spirits, and
Simultaneously Witnessed by the Author and Other
Observers in London.
By WILLIAM H. HARRISON.
Limp Cloth, red edges. Price Is.; post free Is. Id.
38, Great Russell Street, London, W.C.
Or of Messrs. Colby and Rich, 9, Montgomery-street,
Boston, U.S.
Opinions of the Press.
“As a dispassionate scientific man, he appears to have
Investigated the subject without pre-conceived ideas, and the
result of his examination nas been to identify his opinions with
those of Messrs. Varley, Crookes and Wallace, in favour not
only of the absolute reality of the phenomena, but also of
the genuineness of the communications alleged to be
given by the spirits of the departed. Into the much vexed
question of h priori objections to Mr. Harrison’s opinions we
shall not now enter. We will only say that his descriptions of
facts are couched in a moderate and truly scientific spirit, that
he appears to have exhausted every reasonable test which his
experience led him to make, and that the whole tone of the
book (which is singularly free from dogmatic pretension) is
rigorously logical.”—.Public Opinion.
“ At the outset of his booklet Mr. Harrison disclaims any
intention of proselytising or forcing his opinion down non-
Spiritualistic throats, and it is only fair to admit that the
succeeding pages are remarkably free from argument and
deduction, albeit bristling with assertions of the most dumb¬
founding nature.”—London Figaro.
“ Although the author has taken some trouble to prove that
table-turhing and spiritual appearances are worthy of more
attention than the public are disposed to give, yet we are so
far from being impressed by the evidence he has brought for¬
ward, that we acquit the spirits of mortals of performing any
of the nonsensical acts with which they are accredited.”—
Morning Advertiser.
“ The unprejudiced and dispassionate temper in which
Mr. Harrison seems to have approached the question, emi¬
nently fitted him to test the authenticity and the value of the
phenomena he undertakes to chronicle, and after a careful
perusal of his little booklet, we are hound to acknowledge that
the statement in his preface is fairly sustained. He neither
theorises nor dogmatises, nor attempts to make converts to
his views. He states occurrences and events, or what he he
lieves did really happen, in a remarkably clear and narrative
style, without any attempt at advocacy or argument. The
mode in which Mr. Harrison has discharged histask is praise¬
worthy; but what of the task itself? To those who are un¬
acquainted with the pretensions of Spiritualism, and those so-
called, and to the majority, incredible manifestations of the
spirit world, which are the ordinary concomitants of the
system, the revelations contained in Spirit People will appear
startling and antecedently impossible.”—South Wales Daily
News
Limp cloth, red edges. Price Is. Id., post free.
W. H. Harrison, 38, great Russell Street, London, w.c.
IT
JL cl % jyig$| of anb of ^ptijttaaftow.
¥oi,u|vie Tejh, Kumber Eiqhteej^.
LONDON, FRIDAY, MAY 4th. 1877.
CONDITIONS FAVOURING GOOD SPIRITUAL MANI¬
FESTATIONS.
A new journal. The Spiritual Scientist of Boston, U.S., has j;
stated that the conditions which we have published as j
favourable to the evolution of spiritual phenomena when the
power is weak, are exactly those which shut out hard sceptics, I
the persons whose adhesion would be of most value to
Spiritualism. Experience, on the'other hand, has convinced
us that the general want of precision in the evolution of the |
phenomena, shuts out those persons whose support would be |
a disgrace to our movement, but whom some Spiritualists are j
trying to drag in out of a weak-minded reverence for what
are in one sense 11 great names,” and out of an undignified
recognition of the claims of mountebank authorities.
With exceptional mediums nothing can stop the manifesta¬
tions. Mr. Woods, of The Times, and acute pressmen, bound
and, by means of screws, affixed Mrs. Fay most securely to
one of the pillars of the Crystal Palace, in a room which
some of the directors then and there declared Mrs. Fay had
never entered before ; yet the phenomena took place imme- j
diately with the utmost precision. But it is good that with j
the generality of mediums, especially those who are young |
and undeveloped, there is no such precision, and that the
phenomena can only be evolved when they are happy, when
they are surrounded by sparkling eyes and loving hearts, and
when the presence of the man who would persecute mediums j
to the death, is deadly poison to the manifestations. The
phenomena then prove to honest men and women the moral
degradation of those juggler authorities of science,who talk to [
public audiences about the imposture of people more honour- j
able than themselves. More dignity and self-respect are j
wanted among a large proportion of Spiritualists ; we ought !
one and all to look upon the entrance into our ranks of a j
scientific man who by misrepresenting truth abuses authority |
reposed in him by the uninformed public, as a thorough dis- j
grace to Spiritualism. He ought rather to be refused access [
to all spirit circles on the ground that he is not an honest j
man, and should be plainly told that he is morally unfit to
be recognised as having anything to do with Spiritualism.
The phenomena shut out exactly the men who ought to
be shut out, and the attempt to drag such persons in displays
lamentable intellectual weakness. The outcasts may be
highly intellectual in their grooves of thought, but they are
always rotten in their affections ; where the full blown roses
of true affections and truthful hearts should be, nothing but
dusty rags can be found in their moral natures. It is more
easy for such people to believe in imposition on the part of
their most intimate friends, than to accept as genuine
abnormal phenomena depending to any extent upon their
testimony, and the manifestations fortunately often occur, as if
some great and good power designedly made human truth and
honour an essential link in the chain of evidence. Were
this not so, Spiritualism would be all physics and no religion.
Men ought only to be permitted to enter the higher courts of
heaven when they have attained that true love for each other
which blushes and burns only in celestial climes, and !
permits the entrance of no evil thought. Into that atmo- j
sphere those who slander their neighbours are not j
permitted to enter; their presence would be poison. The j
attempt to push them in is an undignified metaphysical |
and moral error.
Confccius wrote—“ When one cultivates to the utmost the moral j
principles of his nature, and exercises them on the principles of j
reciprocity, he is not far from the true path. What you do not like when
done to yourself do not do to others; serve your father as you require j
your son to serve you; serve your elder brother as you would require j
your younger brother to serve you; set the example in behaving to a j
fdend as you would require him behave to you.”
JOSEPH WOLFF’S VISIONS.
Many will remember Dr. Joseph Wolff, the ardent Jewish
| convert to Christianity, the energetic preacher in a dozen
] different languages, deeply skilled in Talmudical and Oriental
I learning, the undaunted missionary who often and often
j carried his life in his hand amongst fierce and fanatical tribes,
| and who, when neither the English nor the Indian Govern-
| ment considered it politic to send a mission to Bokhara to
| ascertain the fate of Stoddart and Conolly, and endeavour, if
| not too late, to rescue them, went there himself, alone and
single handed, through a thousand perils, faced the bloody
| and terrible Amir in his then inaccessible capital, and learnt
| that the Englishmen had been foully murdered. Few, how-
| ever, are aware that this remarkable man was a powerful
! medium. At that time the meaning and management of
mediums was not understood, and though there are some
j strange stories current about him in the far East, we are
| not aware that the fact has been previously brought forward,
or is even mentioned in his published biography, a very
entertaining book dictated by himself.
Dr. Wolff firmly believed in diabolical possession; it had
| been to him a familiar experience in Eastern countries, and
! he laid claim to the power of casting out devils. There was
| an acrimonious controversy that once excited much attention
| in India, but is now forgotten, between him and Lieut. Burns
I on this subject, and Dr. Wolff issued the following extra-
I ordinary letter, which seems worth reproducing without any
comment from ourselves at least. It is dated “ Hyderabad,
June 4th, 1833,” and addressed “ to the Public in India —
11 Dear Friends,—Having now taken leave, I hope for ever,
from Mr. Burns, I would consider myself to be dishonest by
not laying before you the whole of the circumstances to which
Mr. Burns alludes, with regard to my frequently casting out
! devils. I told him the following fact. In the year 1828
when I left with my wife the city of Cairo for Jerusalem,
S one night when sitting in my tent, and the Arabs near the
I fire, one of them, Hag Alii by name, was talking. Whilst
; he was talking a horrid voice came out of him—it was like
i the voice of the tormented spirits in hell. I asked the Arabs,
| 4 What is this?’ They replied 4 the devil!’ My wife trembled
; all over. One of the Arabs said to the devil, 4 In the name
! of Mohammed, the Prophet of God, be silent.’
“Devil: ll don’t know Mohammed; Mohammed is a
pig!’
il Myself (to the Devil): 4 In the name of Jesus be
silent! ’
44 Devil: 4 Who is near me ? Is Elijah near me ?’
44 Myself: 4 In the name of Jesus be silent!’—(and the devil
was silent).
44 The same circumstance happened the second night, and 1
silenced him again with the name of Jesus, but as we found
out that the Arab was a great blasphemer and profligate, I
| made not use of the name of Jesus the third night; but Ahmed,
j a Bedouin, who became through this circumstance a believer,
j made use of the name of Jesus, and the devil was silenced.
44 With regard to my one interview with Christ at Bokhara,
it is as follows. When my mind one evening was very much
cast down, having been accused as a Russian spy, I was
I weeping, when suddenly a splendour filled my room, and a
| voice thundered in my ears, 4 Jesus enters ! ’ I saw sud-
! denly Jesus upon a throne, surrounded by little children,
| mercifully and kindly looking at them. I fell down and
| worshipped, and the vision disappeared! This is the one
j instance I mentioned to Burns. But now one similar
j instance more, which I never mentioned to Mr. Burns.
44 When arriving at Malta, for the fifth time, in the
I Lazaretto from Macedonia, my mind was very much cast
206 THE SPIKITUALIST. May 4, 1877.
down, for a horrid hypocrite had imposed upon me. I |j
walked about in my room, and said, * I am afraid my |)
whole trial of converting the Jews is in vain,’ when sud- ||
denly my room was transfigured, and I believed I was in |<
New Jerusalem. Jesus Christ, surrounded by Abraham, !)
Isaac, and Jacob, and the apostles, walked down the street. |j
Paul, with a crown upon his head, turned to me, and said, if j(
I remember right, these words :—( Now it is otherwise: you |>
have not such a beautiful crown as myself, but still you have K
a crown!’ The daughters of Jerusalem were devoutly ||
looking out of the windows, saying, as Christ approached, K
1 Now hath he his tabernacle with men ! ’ Some of the saints K
were looking forth, and said, ‘What are these ships coming j|
from afar, as doves to the windows?’ The others replied, j)
‘ These are the ships of England I ’ and the visions dis- ||
appeared!” u
THE KNOWLEDGE OF TIME IN THE MESMEEIC SLEEP* ;
BY THE LATE WILLIAM GREGORY, F.R.S.E., PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY AT |)
EDINBURGH UNIVERSITY. I(
Many somnambulists can predict, to the second, how ||
long they have to sleep, and they will do so, however often n
they may be asked, at different intervals of the same sleep, c
and always name the same minute. I do not mean to )
say that they are never wrong, for some known interferences |
may derange the phenomena, while some unknown ones \
seem also, at times, to operate. But in those who possess j
the power, failure is the exception. Thus, in a set of obser- j<
vations I made on this point in one case, where this power [)
was early developed, out of thirty-five sittings, the time of n
waking was precisely predicted in thirty-one, in many of K
these three or four times, at different intervals; in all, more \i
than once. Of the remaining four, in two, the time was j||
not asked at all; in the other two, disturbance occurred, as ||
I shall explain below. j j
The form of prediction varies. Some subjects name the j j
hour and minute, usually by the watch of the operator, ||
without, however, its being shown to them; or by some | |
clock, to which they are accustomed to refer. They say, m
for example, “ I shall sleep till eight,” or, “ I shall wake at j j
thirty-four minutes past nine,” &c. Others, among whom j j
is the person referred to in the preceding paragraph, name j
the number of hours or minutes they have to sleep. That j
person, for example, would say, u I have fifty-three minutes |
to sleep; ” (I never caused him to sleep more than an hour j|
in these trials;) and, if I asked again, after twenty-one j
minutes by my watch, he would say, after a moment’s | |
attention, “ I have still thirty-two minutes to sleep.” |||
When I again inquired, after an interval of fourteen and |jj
a-half minutes, he said, “ I have to sleep eighteen minutes ; j j
no! only seventeen and a-half,” and so on. ij!
It would appear that these two modes of fixing the time |j|
of waking, depend on the form of that which presents itself j||
to the interior vision. The former class see the hour on j(j
some imagined clock or watch, or possibly look by their | |
lucidity at the house clock, or at the operator’s watch. I j j
know that some have said that they saw a watch or time- jjj
piece of some kind before them, when asked the question, Im
and that some internal, inexplicable feeling showed them jjj
the point at which the hands would be at the moment of jjj
their awaking. The individual above referred to, on the
other hand, spontaneously told me of, and most minutely j j
described, a sort of apparatus that enabled him to answer j j
the question. He saw a kind of scale, or measuring rod, j j
which accompanied him, and seemed to pass before his eyes, i j
moving from left to right, slowly, so that while certain j j
'marks or divisions, at one time to the left of his eye, when j j
they seemed to advance out of a dark cloud or mist, moved |jj
towards his eye, others came into view on that part of the jjj
rod formerly shrouded from his sight. On the right, the jjj
portion of rod (the ends of which he never saw) which had jj j
passed his eye, at a certain distance entered a similar cloud, jjj
He was very intelligent, and compared it to an endless jjj
revolving tape, of which only a small portion, and that jj!
straight, was at any one time visible to him, extending to a jjj
variable distance on each side of his eye, and constantly jjj
advancing. It, had marks or divisions, representing minutes jjj
* From Gregory’s Animal Magnetism. '''
and at every ten there was either a longer mark, or the mark
was broader, so that he could instantly distinguish it, but he
said this was not necessary. Indeed, I think he occasionally
spoke as if the marks were all alike, and at all events he counted
them by an instinctive and instantaneous process. He did
not always notice this scale, that is attend to it, while looking
at other objects ; but he had a sense of its constant presence
even when not attending to it. When asked how long he
had to sleep, he had only to look and there it was. There
were no numbers on the scale, but he could always see as far
as was required (in his case never more than sixty minutes
or degrees of the scale, to the left of his eyes). The degree
right in front of his eye he knew to be that of the present
minute, and a peculiar feeling, which he spontaneously com¬
pared to the consciousness of right and wrong, told him, on
looking towards the cloud on the left, the degree which, at
waking would be found opposite the eye. He was also quite
sensible that the degrees to the right represented past
minutes, as those to the left represented future minutes. He
could apparently recognise, after it had passed on towards
the right, the degree which was present when he first fixed
the time, and found it easiest to count how many degrees it
had moved to the right, and deduct this number from that
originally fixed, when he was again asked. But he could
answer either way. The whole of this description was given
as nearly as possible in the words and order here set down;
and I asked no questions until he had finished his account of
it, which he had spontaneously offered to give me.
I should observe, that in about one-half of the trials made
with him, I first commanded him to sleep 30, 40, 45, 50,
55, or 60 minutes ; and in the remainder I allowed him,
when first asked, to fix his own time, which he did instantly,
by looking at his scale, and which was not copied from my
experiments, inasmuch as he varied from 7 or 8 to 12, 14,
15, 20, 22, 34, 35, 40, 41, 43, 47, 50, and 52 minutes. One
reason why he never exceeded the hour, any more than my¬
self, was doubtless the fact, that our time, on both sides,
was limited, and that he retained this impression in his
sleep.
From the variation in the times fixed by himself from
those fixed by me, and from his invariably, as he told me,
looking first at his scale, before he could specify time, I con¬
clude, that the length of the sleep was not, in those instances
in which he fixed it, the result of suggestion. But, grant¬
ing that it was so, surely the fact, that he could see the
moment fixed upon, when asked, visible as a future point,
advancing to the present, and subsequently fading into the
past, is truly remarkable. I am not aware that this
curious phenomenon has been, in other cases, so minutely
inquired into. I had the great advantage of having a subject
highly educated, of great natural ability, and able to express
his feelings and observations in good and precise language.
But I have no doubt, that if other cases were fully investi¬
gated, we should arrive at very interesting results in refer¬
ence to this point.
In the two instances in which the prediction of the time
of waking was not precisely fulfilled in this case, the subject
slept about fifteen minutes longer than the allotted period.
The first time, I observed some symptoms of change in his
face and manner, but was not aware, till he awoke, that the
time had been exceeded. Next day I observed him more
closely, and saw the same signs of something unusual. He
became silent, and, after a time told me that he was in no
place, but as it were in air, and then he said, he was in a
different world,—not meaning by this, as I ascertained, more
than that he was in a different country, and among strange
people. He also saw better. At this time he was in a pro¬
gressive state, the power of predicting the time of
waking having appeared to him very early, before
he saw plainly. This change occurred about seven
or eight minutes before the time he had named for
waking. He continued to describe the new scene for
about fifteen minutes, which, as I was busy noting what he
said, seemed to be a shorter time. All at once, he became
again silent, and then spoke of the things he had been
alluding to before the change. I then asked him how long
he had to sleep, and he said seven minutes, which proved
correct. Here, being in a progressive state, he had spon¬
taneously passed into another stage, the fifteen minutes
THE SPIRITUALIST.
207
May 4, 1877,
passed in ■which, did not count in his first state, but had | |
been, as it were, interpolated. It is highly probable, that j j
many instances of inaccuracy in the time fixed as the dura- | |
tion of the sleep, especially in the early stages, may admit j !•
of a similar explanation. I think it also very probable that j j
occasionally the interference of a third party, especially if he j j
should touch the sleeper, may derange the result, either by j |
confusing his sensations, or by temporarily inducing a j j
different stage of sleep. j j
MATERIALISATION PHENOMENA.
BY THE HON. J. L. O’SULLIVAN, FORMERLY AMERICAN MINISTER AT THE COURT j
OF PORTUGAL, (
Your editorial leader of 13th inst., commenting on my
recently renewed experience of the Firman materialisation
seances here, and on the circumstance of “ test conditions”
having been thoroughly established, by a strict search both
of the cabinet and of the medium’s person, puts the
question:
But if two living and beautiful young women came out of that test )
cabinet, wherein was the necessity for searching the medium, it being (
inconceivable that he had two such living persons concealed in his j
pockets ? The object in putting this question is to ascertain whether )
the two visitants had living flexible features, bearing no resemblance to \
those of the medium, or whether they were mask-like faces manu- )
factured or brought in by unseen powers, possibly to represent the
features of the departed ? \
You then go on to say:
We have closely watched materialisation manifestations since they
first began regularly in England, and in every instance in which genuine \
phenomena were undoubtedly presented under test conditions, the form
has either been living—in which case it has always borne a strong j
resemblance to the medium—or it has been a death-like representation |
of somebody else. On several occasions there has been undoubted j
duplication of the features and form of the medium, the two having )
been clearly seen together. j
An hypothesis fitting such cases is that spirits being divorced from >
material conditions, must either take on somewhat the form of the )
medium, or must manufacture such representations from material things j
pertaining to this lower world, as to symbolise the presence of a de¬
parted friend now in the higher life.
Perhaps if these manifestations were farther developed, a new order \
of materialisations would set in, and living, flexible, intelligent faces, j
manifestly those of deceased friends, appear to five or six trustworthy I
and critical witnesses at once in a good light. The evidence is strong (
that such phenomena have been witnessed in America.
The search was made, not for ourselves, but in order to
meet your very proper habitual requirement of 11 test condi- j
tions and to repel in advance the supposition which some j
captious and stubborn objectors (such as abound) might make, j
however absurdly, that the medium had a concealed supply j
of masks and drapery. |
Numerous as may have been your attendances at materiali- j
sation seances in England, yet you have never had such |l
opportunities of observation as are afforded by consecutive |
daily seances continued through years, with the same medium |
and the same spectators, keenly observant while in perfect j
harmony and sympathy. I know of nothing at all similar, j
except perhaps (though in much less degree), Mr. Crookes’s |
series of observations upon u Katie” through Florence )!
Cook, his own record of which is before the world, and in ft
which his scientific perseverance was rewarded with results j
in some respects much superior to ours. !
Let me assure you, in the first place, that there is never j
the slightest resemblance between any of the various faces j
we see and the features of the medium Firman. Nor do j
they at all resemble each other. Nathalie, Alexandrine,
• Carmita, my mother, Glaucus, and John King (not to recal !
the names of others whom I have not now again seen since j
my return), are all different, and each one always the same, j
so that we at once recognise them, and salute them by their |
names, to which they give a bow of assent. I
This statement I will qualify so far as to say that when we j
first see Alexandrine or Nathalie at the window, veiled, and j
a little in the rear of it, and in shadow, we are not always j i
certain which of the two it is, both being beautiful young j j
girls, with oval faces and regular features; but we very soon | j
distinguish with certainty, the face of Alexandrine being >|
larger than that of Nathalie, and perceptibly different, ! |
though by differences which would be more easily expressed j j
by the pencil than by the pen. The moment the veil is re- - ’
moved we have no uncertainty in determining vhich is
which.
As to the faces being % living, intelligent, flexible,” our
experience is, that when the atmospheric and other unknown
conditions are favourable, and “ the power” is good, then
they are so unmistakably, and in striking and beautiful
degree. They look into our eyes, not only with living in¬
telligence in their countenances, but with a deep earnestness
of expression—expression full of feeling, as though it sought
to sink into the depth of our own hearts and souls. “ Flexi¬
bility,” a term implying movement, is hardly to be expected
in any face whose gaze is earnestly fixed upon another ; yet,
as you will see below, we have often had that too in move¬
ments of features. They often turn round so as to show in
profile or at three-quarters; often bend the head forward at
a slight inclination, as we are all apt to do when looking
earnestly forward at a person. They constantly nod forward
in salutation, or response to salutation, or in assent; and at
other times shake the head negatively, sometimes quickly,
sometimes more slowly. And all their movements, both of
faces and of persons, are unsurpassably graceful—slow,
gentle, and as it were tender. With the exception of the
lips they are white, though it is a whiteness rather sugges¬
tive of ivory than of marble or of death. There used to be
colour in the cheeks, but I do not see it now ; yet are they
less white when they appear by John King’s light than when
by our own, which has blue and green predominating in it.
So much for the faces when l( the power” is good.
But it is not always thus. John King will tell us that
the weather is bad, and this not solely dependent on sun¬
shine or rain. He calls it the a electricity”—too little or
too much. At such times his luminous stone is dull
and clouded, or reduced to half-size, or both. It does
mot show like a small “full moon,” as it does at other
times. He sometimes tells us that he to-day cannot
do anything; makes no attempt at showing the cabinet
materialisations, or will show them but for a few moments
at a time, or with no withdrawal of the veils from
before the faces. He rarely fails, however, of being at least
able to talk to us himself, and to show his light a little, with
more or less of glimpses of his then slightly perceived white
dress and turban and black beard behind it. When it is
“ full moon,” he himself shows splendidly by his light, and
he then generally shows us some of the other spirits by it
also (even though they had already been shown in the
cabinet), and brings them close up to our faces. We have
thus seen four at a time, with Firman asleep into the bargain.
Now, there are, on the other hand, occasions when the
spirits materialised in the cabinet are shown to us when
“ the power ” is not very good, or not good at all; and John
King seems to be doing the best he can with an insufficient
amount of it. Then the faces will indeed have no life in
them, or but little and questionable life; no “ speculation
in their eyes,” or life seen but for a moment, and then
extinguished like a light suddenly going out. (John King has
told us that such is what sometimes occurs.) Any spectator
seeing them then, and then only, would indeed regard them
as “ death-like masks.” Some such cases of imperfect
materialisation you have evidently seen in England. We have
occasionally witnessed more than that (though not of late). We
have seen a face formed in only its lower or its upper half,
or in a side half, or formed all but the eyes, where was only
a broad black chasm; or even a face existing, or rather
visible only in parts or spots, with black blotches, suggesting
the idea of a dead face that has been gnawed by fishes-—
shocking to behold. These were all simply and evidently
failures, owing to deficient “power;” and yet, when the
materialisations are good, it is veritable angels that we have
the privilege of looking upon and communing with! What
less than this would take us to these seances every day at
noon, month in and month out, year in and year out—
always uncertain what we shall get, with constant variation
in what comes, and disappointed when it is poor, but in¬
tensely delighted when it is good.
We begin always with the cabinet seance, lit by the
electric vacuum-tube light, which you know. It is at this
time the materialised spirits appear, first at the window of
the cabinet, then at the side or middle ; sometimes coming
forward full a foot or two outside. After this, thr^e knocks
208
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 4, 1877.
under the table call our attention. “ Light out ? ” the
Count asks. “ Yes.” Then, presently, John King speaks j
to us, sometimes immediately, sometimes after more or less j
of silent waiting—shows his light, himself, and often other
spirits — now illumined only by his “moon.” I have
before mentioned that the faces which then and thus ap- j
pear, show to us (as we all agree, though John King has
once told me that I was mistaken in so saying) full one-
third smaller than the same ones had before appeared under j
our artificial light. It seems to us as though they were then I
more condensed in their materialisation. They seem to be |
the same, yet reduced, and with a difference, and more j
perfect in beauty. John King has told us that they then |
appear as they appear in the spirit-world; as we shall see |
them when we pass over to there. There is here never any !
want of “ life ” and earnest, intelligent expression, as they j
look into our faces, within often less than a foot of distance, j
Of the cabinet faces, he has said, that he makes them the j
best he can with such “materials” as the state of the j
atmosphere and other circumstances enable him to employ,
and that they are more or less complete, according to the
“ conditions.” Yet, even then, as already said, they are j
often marvellously beautiful, and seemingly perfect, yet, at
other times, strangely different from that condition.
I will here mention that several times (before my parti- i
cipation in these seances) the Count has been inside the
cabinet during the process of materialisation, and has seen
the spirits gradually condensing into form out of a sort of I
white cloud, and he has then and there been allowed to feel
them, their feet and legs, being himself also touched by
them. Only once did he witness, outside the cabinet, the
spectacle of one who appeared complete from head to foot,
in the dark, but visible by her own inherent luminosity. It
lasted for almost twenty seconds, then disappeared, but pre¬
sently again shone there close to him as before. I have
never witnessed this, but the Count’s description is quite j
equivalent to the testimony of my own. eyes.
Let me revert to your “ flexibility ” of face. I cannot say
that in these present seances I have seen clearly any move¬
ment of features, so as to be quite sure of it—being always
so anxious not to see or say anything I was not quite sure of.
Yet you must remember that since Firman’s trouble with
the authorities, his “ great upset,” as John King always calls
it, his mediumistic force does not seem ever to have risen up
to its former level, though it is promised that it will do so.
My former letters recorded the kisses, visible by the motions i
of the lips between the sister spirits, as well as audible by
the sweet little familiar sound;—and this occurring once or j
twice between three at a time. Surely that is “flexibility”
of a feature—not to say, the best of the features. Those I
letters told of occasions when they would blow kisses to us, !
either on request or in response to ours, accompanied not only
with the natural movement of the finger-tips, and the sound
of the kisses, but with the distinct sound of blowing instantly |
following, as though to waft the kiss on its way; just as in !
our ordinary human life. They told you also of smiles, dis- !
tinctly brightening the faces and modifying their lines, in
response to things that would be said by us—such as com¬
pliments, thanks, or expression of affection. They told you j
also of an occasion when (I being quite ill with a pleurisy, j
yet having imprudently gone in a carriage to the seance) the j
faces appeared both of Grlaucus and of my mother, and all 1
four of us who were present, namely, the Count, myself, I
another intimate friend and his wife, both saw the lips move j
and heard the words spoken in a distinct whispering voice— j
by the former, “ Go to bed,'n by the latter, “ Send for ” |
(naming a nurse).*
Have I not said enough to meet fully your inquiry about i
“ life, intelligence and flexibility,” in these materialised j
faces ? I must add something further about figures, limbs, j
and drapery; points which, though not coming exactly |
within the letter of the question raised by you, yet have j
their connection with, their bearing upon it.
* To-day (21st) they seem to have made an effort to meet the points about which I had !
written you, though my letter was not yet posted. Both the Count and I saw clearly slight j
but distinct colour in their cheeks, and interchanged the remark at the time. Their noses, !
cheeks, <fcc., always throw natural shadows. Moreover, as I was closely scanning the !
beautiful face of Nathalie, with her eyes at first fixed on mine, I saw her eyes upraised, as I
though towards heaven, so that I saw chiefly the lower whites of them, and then agdin j
closed, the eyelids dropping over them. This was repeated twice. I felt sure of it, and j
remarked upon it. I afterwards spoke of it to John King. “ Yes, to be sure,” was his i;
i istantaneous answer, '■'■and it was for you it was done;” evidently because I was just S
treating of this point of the movement of features.
11 Though it was not formerly so, yet it is certain that now
i] these spirits are generally not materialised below the head.
Below that, ample drapery sweeps downward. Sometimes
[| the neck is visible; more commonly the drapery muffles
them up to the top of the neck. The drapery is partly a
!j gauze; partly it seems some very fine but more opaque stuff.
;| To the touch it is soft as the finest of fabrics that ever issued
j from material looms. We have often gathered it up in our
j hands when it would lie in a heap before us on the table just
j underneath the head (close to our own faces) of the spirit-
! person to whom it belonged—a head evidently floating above
and near to the table. Sometimes it hangs in a long droop
of drapery quite down to the floor; sometimes there is a space
between the bottom of it and the floor. Sometimes we see
the spirit-head rise up near to the ceiling while the bottom
of the drapery lengthens out of itself beneath as the floating
form lengthens upwards, reminding us of the shawls produced
by “ Honto ” out of air, as recorded by Col. Olcott; some¬
times we see it shorten and disappear as the spirit-face sinks
down to or near to the floor, as though about to disappear
through it. Sometimes, when we request it, the spirits will
thrust the drapery forward, in volume largely increased. As
j a general rule, judging from the volume and outlines, there
! does not seem to be any swell of shoulders and bust under
j the drapery, yet sometimes there does. We have seen the
j head sometimes appear first in that shoulderless condition,
j and then, on our remarking upon it, lo, in a few moments it
j would reappear with evident shoulders and bust, and a sort
| of gathering in of the drapery at the waist. We seldom now
| see arms and hands, yet we see what would seem to be such
! protruding from the sides, under cover of drapery, to open or
I shut the curtain. We have seen this curious thing, viz., a
j veil hanging down before the face, and down below the level
j of the waist, and on our request to have it removed, agather-
! ing in of the veil sidewards in vertical folds at about the
j level of the waist, and a drawing of it aside, as the operation
] would be done by material hand and arm, and yet no such
j hand or arm visible to us (at three or four feet distance,
I under good light). Hand and arm seemed to be acting there
| —proving themselves to be there by their action—and yet
I not visible—acting without materialisation; somewhat as
I when spirits often lift a musical box, or other object, in the
I light, without any view of the hand which performs the act.
Sometimes the top of the head is entirely covered with
| drapery, sometimes partially so, with hair visible over the
| forehead, or hanging in curls at the side; sometimes the
| whole hair visible, and elaborately dressed, as though by a
| coiffeur; sometimes changing within half a minute from
! one mode or style to another. For instance, Nathalie first
I appeared with a long veil covering her head and face, yet on
| the left side there was what seemed either a large and
| copious fluffing of the hair (somewhat after the present
| Skye-terrier fashion), or else a mass of flowers, for under the
| veil we could not distinguish clearly which it was. I thought
j it the one thing, the Count the other. On the other side was a
| large burning jewel. She withdrew, and in a few moments
| reappeared with the veil raised and gathered round the head
| into a very graceful, gauzy turban, drooping to the
j left side, and flattening down the hair or flowers there ; and
| presently she again exhibited a third variation of style,
| all within the time of a minute or thereabouts. Simple
| will seemed to produce the effects; whether her own will
| and power, or that of John King, the manager or director, I
I cannot say: only, her countenance was full of life and expres-
j sion; she seemed to be enjoying the success of what she
| was doing, or perhaps enjoying our enjoyment of her beauty
| and our expression of it.
We never now, as we used to do before “ the great upset,”
| see the whole of the figure, below the bust down to the feet.
| We see the transparent drapery hanging down in graceful
| folds, but no lower limbs within it, no feet shown beneath it.
| It is all evident void within, or at least absence of anything
| visible there. Yet formerly we have seen the outlines of
I beautiful limbs visible under the drapery up to the knee, and
| lovely pink feet thrust forward for our inspection. Once
| even the Countess exclaimed to her husband, as such a foot
! (of a sister of hers), was made conspicuous, “ Look, look,
] the family foot! ” referring to- a family peculiarity of the
' great toe overlapping its neighbour. And yet I am told that
THE SPIRITUALIST.
209
May 4, 1877.
shortly before my return, on its being requested, and on a
favourable day a foot ims thrust forward for inspection.
In connection with the movement of features, as shown
by kisses, as we have both often seen and heard them, it is
pertinent to refer to kisses which have been given, in the
dark, indeed, but under circumstances quite as conclusive of
their genuineness as though they had been given in the
light. I have thus been kissed by my mother. I have
had my hand raised up nigh to the ceiling, and had it
kissed up there by the little Indian boy whom we call
Franky. He has often kissed me on the forehead and
lips, when I was seated at the table, with four persons seated
round it (the Count, myself, Mr. and Mrs. Firman), all
secured by the chain of hands, and no other material
mortal in the locked room, and his little soft lips are quite
unique. I have been kissed by John King (with a distinct
feeling of his great beard which I had just seen) and by
Glaucus. Here were palpable unmistakable living movements
of lips, and lips forming part of materialised faces.
We have seen John King, in quite sufficient light, bend
over the table, take paper and pencil, which were lying
there, and write a few words, signed with his name. We
have seen Glaucus do the same, simply writing his name,
both by John King’s light.
I conclude, by saying that there have been three distinct
periods in these manifestations, viz.—
1st. Before I came into these seances and when the Count
held them alone, Firman’s mother, a strong medium, was
then with him. The manifestations were then far beyond
what they have ever been since. Then it was that spirits
would walk forth into the room, as many as nine at one
seance, and as many as three at a time, in full complete
stature, in full life and action. Then it was that the Count
had one actually photographed by the sunlight from the
windows—to the no small terror of the photogr q her.
2nd. The interval between Firman’s arrest (the beginning
of his “ trouble ”) under the police persecution, and his
going to spend several months in the pestilential spiritual
atmosphere of Ste. Pelagie (“ the great upset ”). The
history of this period is recorded in my first series of
letters.
3rd. The period subsequent to his release, which may be
called the John King period; that strong spirit well-known to
you through Williams in London, having come over with his
goodwill and great fluidic power, to take the management
of matters here, and to revive the mediumistic power which
had seemed all but extinguished in Firman. This period
includes the present time. The manifestations have never
(in some respects) come quite up to those of even the second
period, splendid and wondrous as they have been and are.
Yet we are assured that the power is progressing, and that
manifestations will yet be given which will astonish us
and the world.
If I have gone somewhat beyond the letter of your inquiry
(which asked only about faces) it has been because these
other matters touched upon have their bearing upon its
meaning and spirit, inasmuch as they contribute towards the
solution of the main question, what is there of real life in
those materialisations. If our facts are accepted (for this
letter is equally the Count’s as it is mine), I think it must
be admitted that our case stands fully proved, I trust to your
satisfaction.
{Read and endorsed) De Bullet.
Paris, April 18, 1877.
The Religio-Philosophical Journal has improved in literary merit
under the new management.
Vivisection.—On Friday afternoon last a meeting was .held at the
Westminster Palace Hotel, by the “ Society for the Protection of
Animals Liable to Vivisection,” in support of Mr. Holt’s Bill “ for
affording the utmost possible protection to vivisectible animals.” The
chair was occupied by Lord Shaftesbury, and the chief speakers were
the Hon. W. Cowper Temple, M.P., Cardinal Manning, Mr. Evelyn
Ashley, M.P., Professor Sheldon Amos, the Bishop of Winchester, and
Miss Cobbe. The speakers expressed their thorough confidence in Mr.
Cross, in whom discretionary power is now vested in the matter of
licensing places for vivisection; but all agreed that it was not advisable
to leave matters in this state, and that greater restrictions should be put
upon those who are allowed to practise it. Among the audience were
several Spiritualists—Miss Douglas, Mrs. Hallock, Mr. Dietz, Mrs.
de Morgan, Miss Mackay, and Miss Kislingbury.
|j THE ENGLISH BIBLE.
11 THE TRANSLATORS CHARGED WITH FAVOURING WITCHCRAFT.
The translators were quite aware of the enmity and oppo-
| sition which their work was sure to meet with, and their
| preface opens with distinct anticipations of the calumnies
| that would be poured upon them 
Among the charges brought against the new version, the
I most absurd and ludicrous is, that through royal influence
j the translation was worded so as to countenance the notion
| of witchcraft. Dr. Samuel Johnson [Works, vol. x. p. 76,
i London, 1823], after telling of James’s great skill in witch-
| craft, and referring to his Treatise on Demonology, printed at
| Edinburgh and reprinted in London soon after his accession,
| adds that, 11 as the ready way to gain King James’s favour
| was to flatter his speculations, the system of Demonology
| was adopted by all who desired either to gain preferment or
| not to lose it.” These words do not contain any definite
I accusation against the translators, though they have been
j supposed to do so. But Bishop Hinchinson [Hutchinson ?],
| in his Historical Essay on Witchcraft, asserts in the same
| spirit, and more directly (after referring to the statute
j against conjuration), u the translation of the Bible being
j made soon after, by King James’s particular desire, hath
| received some phrases that favour the vulgar notions more
j than the old translations did. At that unhappy time was
j brought in the gross notion of a familiar spirit... these
j translations being introduced for the great reverence they
j had to the king’s judgment, and the testimony he gave
j them of facts from Scotland.” A professed commentator,
] also (Rev. John Hewlet [Hewlett?], B.D.), who pub-
| lished an exposition of the Bible in 1812—the notes of
j which were reprinted in 1816—declares without reserve that
j the translators introduced the terms “familiar spirit,”
j “ witch,” and “wizard” to flatter the notions of royalty,
i But whatever the king’s opinions were on this subject,
! the terms objected to occur in the earlier versions, and were,
j therefore, not introduced by the king’s translators. Both
j the two preceding versions in concurrent use had, in the
j story of her of Endor, the phrase “familiar spirit” three
j times (1 Sam. xxvii, 7. 8) though they rendered the phrase
j “ them that had familiar spirits and the wizards,” in 3
j and in 9, by “sorcerers” and “soothsayers.” In the
j Great Bible (1540) a “ familiar spirit” is rendered “ a spirit
j of prophecy,” and by Coverdale “ a spirit of soothsaying.”
| Both the Genevan and the Bishops’ have (in Exodus
j xxiii. 18) “thou shalt not suffer a witch to live,” and
j the Bishops’ has the following note:—“The word in
j Hebrew signifieth a witch or sorcerer, or an enchanter,
j or any that by devilish means hurteth either cattle,
| corn, or men.” The translators, though they accepted
j the text, pointedly refused this note, which was after the
j king’s own heart. “Witch” is also the translation of the
I earlier versions. Nay, in Isaiah Ivii. 3, where the Genevan
j has “ witches children,” the authorised does not copy, but
j has used “ sorcerers.” In both the Wycliffite versions iSimon
| is called a witch, the noun being at that early period of both
j genders. Belief in witchcraft was very current in Europe
j before the period of James I. Many medifeval councils,
| synods, and papal bulls had maintained the reality of it, and
j there is an immense body of literature on the subject,
j Wierus had written in 1583, and Reginal Scott in the
I following year. A statute had been passed against witchcraft
| in 1541 (33 Hen. viii. c. 8), and it was renewed at the acces-
j sion of Eiizabeth, before any law was enacted in Scotland.
J Witchcraft figures prominently in many dramas. At a later
II period Glanville, Henry More, Sir Matthew Hale (who con-
| demned two women to death at Bury-St.-Edmunds in 1665),
j the Mathers in America, Professor Sinclair, of Glasgow
j University,* Sir Thomas Brown, the “exposer of vulgar
j errors,” and good John Wesley, expressed their firm convic-
I tion of the reality of it. The penal laws in existence at that
j time against it, which had been passed (1 Jas. i. c. 12) when
(j Coke was attorney-general, and Bacon a member of Parlia-
jj ment, were not repealed till 1736.f Chief Justice Holt, in
(| * See yoI. i. p. 326, Satan’s Invisible World Discovered, by George Sinclair, Professor of
(j Moral Philosophy and Mathematics in the University of Glasgow. Edinburgh, 1685
(i Reprinted at Edinburgh, 1871. The story is Relation xxii. p. 154.
j i t See Huchinson s [Hutchinson's ?] Essay on Witchcraft, 1718 ; Upham’s Salem Witchcraft,
/1 Boston, 1867; the first chapter of Becky's Rationalism, yol, i. London, 1866, thirl edition J
) '■ and De la Demonialile, par Isidore Liseux, Paris, 1875.
210
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 4. 1877.
3702, punished witchcraft as an imposture. The belief in i
witches was intensely prevalent in Scotland. The General !
Assembly had often taken up the matter, and the early |
seceders set down among the signs of spiritual declension
the cessation of witch-burning. The last instance in England u
of witch-burning occurred in 1716, and in Scotland in 1720.— |)
John Eadie, D.D., LLD., The English Bible, vol. ii. p. 264, ij
268, 269, 270 (1876). |
EXPERIMENTS IN MESMERISM.
A few evenings ago, Mr. S. R. Redman gave an experi- K
mental lecture on a Mesmerism” at the School-rooms con- j
nected with Holy Trinity Church, Tulse-hill, London. There j
was a fair attendance. ||
The lecturer stated that mesmerism was a power or force j
by means of which one person could put another into a j|
curious condition—into a psychological state the nature of |
which was not yet well understood. Mesmerism was not !
’new; it had been known to the Egyptians, the Assyrians, j
and the Babylonians, and in one instance was directly I
mentioned in the Bible, namely, where Naaman the Assyrian i
came to be cured of his leprosy. Haaman’s remark on that j
occasion, when properly translated from the Hebrew, ran j
thus—u Surely, said I to myself, he will come out to me, j
and will call upon the name of his God, and move his hand j
down and up, and recover the leper.” In this passage then j
there was a clear description of mesmeric passes. The name I
of animal magnetism” had also been given to mesmerism |
because by making passes in one direction the influence j
could be thrown upon the subject, and by making passes in j
the opposite direction the influence could be removed, just | j
as magnetism similarly could be induced in or removed from | j
pieces of iron by means of passes made with a loadstone. )
He had brought two of his own sensitives to operate upon j
that evening at the special request of the committee, but he J
would endeavour to get other subjects from among those j
who were listening to him, and whom he had never seen n
before. One of the two boys upon whom he intended to j
operate had been put into the mesmeric state in the presence |}j
of Dr. Gully and other eminent men, who had been fully j
satisfied of the genuineness of the phenomena.
He then placed the boy in a chair, and by making a few |) j
passes over him threw him into a mesmeric sleep in which | j
he could hear what was said to him, but all his other senses j !
were dead; he then mesmerised him a little more, and the j
boy could no longer hear him, which fact he said was an K
answer to a remark made by Major Owen at a meeting of j
the Psychological Society, that it was doubtful whether j|
sensitives could ever be deprived of their hearing. The boy, j
he added, was in a very deep sleep, so deep that only one | j
sleep could be deeper, namely, the sleep of death. He then j) j
demesmerised him, and woke him up.
He (Mr. Redman) would not attempt to prove the truth of m
mesmerism; the day for so doing had gone by, and it was j j
for others to prove its falsity. Galileo was laughed at in his 1|
day because he taught that the world travelled round the | j
sun, and he was put into the Inquisition for telling the truth. i
If people would only investigate the subject of mesmerism j
at home among themselves, they would find it to be perfectly j j
true. But what was the use of it? It would cure many j j
disorders; if medical men failed in every way in curing a j j
disease, then mesmerism should be tried, and if that power I !
failed, human intellect could go no farther. Mr. Serjeant | |
Cox had asserted that he was satisfied that the mesmeric | |
state was a self-induced condition, that is to say, that the ! j
operator only fixed the mind of the subject, and that the m
latter then threw himself into the state. He (Mr. j j
Redman) did not believe this to be the case, for a mes- j
meric sensitive could be influenced without expecting it, | |
or without there being any outward sign of an attempt ! j
to influence him. By mesmerism nervous diseases were j !
easily cured; he knew a lady who had been suffering from I j
neuralgia, and he mesmerised her five times; very little I
effect was produced at first, but on the fifth occasion the j (
neuralgia left her, and she had never had it since, although ! j
that was two years ago. Another lady, living upon Brixton j j
Hill suffered in the same way; she was treated by medical j
men for three months without any benefit, and she had had ii!
three visits from Dr. Gull, who was unable to do her any
good. He (Mr. Redman) mesmerised her three times, giving
twenty minutes each evening to the work ; she did not go to
sleep, but talked to him while the passes were being made,
and she was cured. Afterwards she caught the neuralgia
again through going out into the damp, and on that second
occasion it was removed with difficulty, but he succeeded.
In these experiments there was no self-induced state, for she
was wide awake, and argued with him all the time. The
influence was only perceptible by its effect. Mesmerism
might be a self-induced state in some instances, but he was
quite convinced that in others it was not so. This wonderful
curative power was altogether neglected by science, to the
great injury of the world; indeed, in relation to subjects out¬
side their own grooves, scientific people were the most
bigoted set on the face of the earth. (Applause.) It
mattered not to him if these remarks were taken to apply
more especially to Dr. Carpenter, or the learned Professor who
had caused so much trouble to Dr. Slade; it would have
been better if these men, before speaking, ha£i first investi¬
gated with patience, and had not acted in the same way that
the medical profession do towards mesmerism, for they knew
that if mesmerism were to be generally practised, Othello’s
occupation would be gone. (Applause).
Mr. Redman here performed a variety of mesmeric and
biological experiments, some of them highly amusing. He
made one boy attempt to get possession of the moon, whilst
another, in a different mesmeric state, said to the searcher for
the orb celestial—“ Come back, you silly fellow, or you will
be locked up.” Some of these absurd things were done with
marvellously solemn countenances, and others, of equal
absurdity, while the sensitives were smiling, the condition of
the face depending upon the passes he had made over it
before each experiment began. While one of the sensitives
was seated with his back to the audience, Mr. Redman made
passes over the head of one of the listeners, then returned to
the platform, and told the sensitive to search for a flower
upon the head of the said observer. This experiment,
which would have proved the presence of some tangible
force, and that mesmerism was not a self-induced state,
failed on every occasion. He blindfolded a boy, and by
making passes near him, the boy slowly and hesita¬
tingly followed him to different parts of the room,
but the noise of Mr. Redman’s footsteps being audible, as
well as the rustling of his dress in making the passes, the
influence of suggestion on the mind of the sensitive was not
necessarily absent. Altogether we saw no clear proof against
the theory of self-induction, or in favour of Mr. Redman’s
statement that there were two mesmeric states ; to clear up
these points it would be well if these experiments were to be
repeated before the Psychological Society. Among the more
absurd experiments was one in which he made a sensitive,
B, believe that another sensitive, C, had his (B’s) head on
his shoulders. B gazed at C with glassy eyes for a few
minutes, and said in a perplexed tone, <( He’s got my head !
that’s a nice game too! ” Then he flew at C, seized him
round the neck, and tugged at him with a violence which
threatened to pull his head off, had not the mesmerist
separated them.
Afterwards, Mr. Redman called the attention of these
two sensitives to a chair which he had laid upon the floor
between them, and, looking down at the chair, he said :—
Take her up tenderly,
Lift her with care ;
Fashioned so slenderly,
Young, and so fair;
Still for all sins of hers,
One of Eve’s family,
Wipe those poor lips of hers,
Oozing so clammily,
and so on. The two youths gazed at the chair with the
utmost earnestness, until the tears came into their eyes;
then they bent down and gently lifted it, one of them
tenderly stroking the wooden back as if removing the hair
from a face. They then slowly carried the chair about the
platform. The following conversation took place :—
Mesmerist: What have you got there ?
Sensitive: A dead woman.
Mesmerist: Where did you find her ?
May 4, 1877.
211
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Sensitive: I found her somewhere, and here she is.
Mesmerist: Did you feel her pulse ? |)|
Sensitive: She has none. . m
Mesmerist: Is she heavy? ijj
Sensitive: Yes, I should think she is; and (shuddering) m
so cold. She looks as if she had been drowned. Well j
(sighing), I suppose we had better take her somewhere. m
Mesmerist: Where are you going to take her?
Sensitive : To the dead-house. Ill'
While one of the sensitives was gently caressing the back
of the chair, as if removing curls from a face, the mesmerist ||
made him believe that the chair was a pig. It took about j
two minutes to change the impression. The stroking of the m
hair suddenly ceased, the youth sprang up and in disgust j j
kicked the chair away from him exclaiming, £< There is no j
tail to it! Oh, it is a beastly thing 1” jl
The lecturer concluded with the well-known experiment of |||
making the body of one of the sensitives so stiff by mesmeric jj j
passes, that it could be lifted up and placed with the !)j
shoulders on the top of the sharp edge of the back of one ! |
chair, whilst the ankles rested upon the sharp edge of the k
back of another; in this uncomfortable position the body | |
rested as stiff as a plank, and bent but slightly when the ||j
weight of the whole of the body of Mr. Redman was thrown \\
upon the breast of the sensitive. j I
MR. GLADSTONE ON SPIRITUALISM. ! |
The May number of a journal entitled The Liverpool (30, Moor- •)
fields, Liverpool) contains the following letter to the editor from the Right i \ \
Hon. W. E. Gladstone, M.P..—
“ Holmbury, Dorking, April 8th, 1877. i) j
“ Sir,—I fear I can render but little service, yet should be glad to aid || j
in removing, if it might be, risks which you name, and each of which is jj I
in its own way so great.
“ I know of no rule which forbids a Christian to examine into the i j j
professed signs of preternatural agency in the system called * Spirit- j j j
ualism.’ But it seems to me his duty— i) j
“ 1. To refrain from * dabbling ’ in a question of this kind: that is to jj j
say—making a shallow and insufficient examination of it.
“ 2. To beware of the rash assumption, that, if the signs are real, the j)
system has therefore of necessity any claim to more than an acknow- jj j
ledgment of this reality. jj!
“ 3. To remember that, on the principles of the Christian religion, a j) j
bad preternatural agency, or a misleading one, is not shut out from jj j
the range of possibility.
“ 4. To avoid, in so solemn a matter, the spirit of mere curiosity, and i) j
to be assured of having in view an useful object.
“ Universal knowledge, however, is not possible, and we are bound to j j j
choose the best and healthiest. I may add that an inquiry of this kind j i
seems to me much more suited for a mind in a condition of equilibrium j j j
than for one which is disturbed.
“ If the reviews and facts of the day have in any way shaken the jj I
standing-ground of a Christian, is it not his first and most obvious j) j
duty to make an humble but searching scrutiny of the foundations ?
“I speak as one who is deeply convinced that they will bear it, and jj j
that God has yet many a fair plant to rear in this portion of His garden, j j i
With all good wishes, I remain, Sir, your faithful servant,
“ W. E. Gladstone.” ^ i
MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT AT THE ROOMS OF THE
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
The Library and Reading Rooms of the National Association of
Spiritualists, at 38, Great Russell-street, London, were reopened on
Wednesday, the 25th ult., with a soiree and musical entertainment of
unusual brilliancy. The programme, as previously announced, was an
exceedingly good one, and the performers all of a high order of merit;
the warm thanks of the Association are therefore due to the ladies and
gentlemen who so kindly came forward and gave their assistance on
the occasion. The whole performance was a complete success, the
attendance was large, and it is to be hoped that this may be the inaugu¬
ration of similar meetings in the future. A great addition to the
pleasure of the evening was found in the profusion of beautiful flowers
with which the rooms and the platform were decorated, and which were
sent by friends from hot-house and hedgerow for the occasion.
The appearance and comfort of the rooms are greatly improved by the
alterations, which will doubtless continue to attract a large number of
visitors during the London season.
The following are the names of the professional and non-professional
performers to whom the National Association of Spiritualists has been
indebted for the elegant entertainment of last week: Madame Schneegans,
Madame Ronniger, Miss Schallehn, Mrs. Limpus, and the Misses
Withall; Mr. Dietz, Mr. E. A. Tietkins, Mr. Kitcat, and Mr. Andre.
Dr. Carter Blake continues to improve slowly, and there is reason
to hope for his ultimate recovery. His steady and efficient work, so
kindly and willingly given for some time past to the National Associa¬
tion of Spiritualists, has endeared him to many members of that body,
and has made his absence a truly public loss.
THE REV. CANON GILBERT ON SPIRITUALISM.
Next Sunday morning the very Rev. Canon Gilbert, D.D., will
deliver his second lecture on Spiritualism, at the Roman Catholic
Church of St. Mary’s, Moorfields; the church is close to the Liverpool-
street station of the Metropolitan Railway, and to the Broad-street
station of the North London Railway. The sermon is preached in the
middle of the service, consequently it begins at half-past eleven o’clock.
On the last occasion many persons quitted the church at the conclusion
of the sermon, without remaining for the rest of the service; such de¬
parture is considered by the regular attendants as an act of irreverence
in a congregation assembled for public worship, so those who are not
Catholics should pay some respect in this matter to the feelings of
others. Strangers had better enter the church by the central door.
Canon Gilbert is a logical and intellectual preacher, whose sermons are
always of interest to the listeners.
“ EVERETTISM.”
Two Americans, of the name of Mr. and Mrs. Everett, recently came
to London, and, after taking apartments at the West End, began to give
nightly what they called a,n “ expose” ot spiritual phenomena. The
circular they issued was of a dubious nature, the word “ expose ” being
used in the sense of “ exposition,’’ and the whole document left it open
for them to say at any time either that they were genuine mediums or
conjurors. They have stated to several persons who have been there
that they did this because on their arrival in England they thought that
all professional mediums were liable to be prosecuted at law.
Their performance, whatever the nature of it may be, strongly re¬
sembles the real thing, since everything takes place in a private room
devoid of stage appliances, and Mr. Everett places himself entirely in
the hands of the strangers present, who are invited to test him. A large
party of well-known Spiritualists observed the performances last Friday
night, and among the more remarkable occurrences witnessed was the
freeing of Mr. Everett while shut up in a cabinet from steel handcuffs.
True they were his own handcuffs, so that what took place on this parti¬
cular occasion amounted to nothing; but he advertises his desire that
those who come to his entertainment shall bring handcuffs with them
borrowed from any police-station. He said last Friday that if this
were done he would guarantee to get free from them in a few minutes.
On the same occasion a kind of stiff wire helmet, coming down over his
head and breast, was placed upon his shoulders; his hands and arms
were also placed in stiff iron-wire casings. All these iron appendages
were tied to him by non-confederates with ropes in any way they pleased.
His legs were then tied together, and his whole body, with the wire
casings, lashed to the chair. Yet under these conditions, while by
himself in his little cabinet of American cloth, guitars were floated and
played, a handkerchief was drawn into the cabinet and knotted, and a
variety of other curious things done. At the end he was found secured
as at first.
To further sift this matter to the bottom, the Investigation Committee
of the Psychological Society has invited him to give a seance at their
rooms, thus getting him entirely off his own premises, and to this
arrangement he has consented.
Mr. Everett tells the observers—“ You may call what we show you
‘ Spiritualism,’ or anything you please; we call it * Evereitism.’ ’’
Mr. W. Eglinton desires to acknowledge the sum of 17s. 6d. re¬
ceived from Mr. J. Docton, of Merthyr, collected by him from his
Welsh friends for Mr. J. Aldridge.
Anti-Vaccination.—The following paragraph, relating to a Liverpool
Spiritualist, is extracted from the Liverpool Argus of April 28th:—
“ Mr. Henry Pride, of Grampian-road, Edge-lane, whose name is
familiar to most of our readers, has at last become tired of the repeated
legal prosecutions, in the shape of fines, to which he has been subjected
for the offence of refusing to have his child vaccinated, and has elected
to be sent to prison. We think it a pity that a greater number of those
who are opposed to the Vaccination Acts are not courageous enough to
i j j follow Mr. Pride’s example. We fear it is the only way in which public
i j I opinion can be aroused. Even fair-minded and kind-hearted people are
i ; not impressed by the record of the imposition of a fine. They are apt
jj! to say lightly that if a man has a whim and chooses to pay for the
j I privilege of indulging it, it is nobody’s business but his own; but they
j j are likely to speak in a different tone when they hear that the same
j) j man, whom they know to be a respectable and worthy citizen, has been
j i compelled to herd with felons and vagabonds because he is a dissenter
j) j from an established medical creed, and has dared to make his dissent
i) i not a mere theoretical, but a practical thing. It may, perhaps, occur
ijj to them that when our governors have made themselves perfect legis-
jjj lators it will be quite soon enough for them to think of becoming
j) j physicians as well. That consummation has, however, not yet arrived,
j —Since writing the above we have received a letter from Mr. Samuel
j j i Pride, informing us that while his brother was on his way to Kirkdale
j j he learned from the policeman who accompanied him in the cab that his
j j j sentence included hard labour. * My brother,’ writes Mr. Samuel Pride,
ijj ‘ knowing this to be illegal, managed to communicate with me. I went
j) j to Basnett-street, but as business there was over for the day I could not
j j j get the blunder rectified. My brother has long been in delicate health,
j j j He would endure the ordinary incarceration rather than either vaccinate
j j or pay; but hard labour is simply out of the question. I went straight-
lj way to Kirkdale, paid thirty-one shillings, and so liberated him. He
i j had been there only about two hours, and the labour had not yet been
j j imposed on him; but he was received, and for the time being treated as
ijj a hard labour prisoner.’ This kind of thing cannot last. A bad law may
jj j be borne with, but a bad law maladministered on the side of severity
U i soon becomes unendurable.”
212 THE SPIRITUALIST. May 4, 1877.
ORIGINAL RESEARCHES IN PSYCHOLOGY.
No. III.
BY T. P. BAKKAS, F.G.S.
On the evenings of Oct. 23rd and Dec. 18th, 1876, I had the honour
of delivering before the members of your society the first and second of
a series of lectures on “ Original Researches in Psychology,” and, with
your permission, I propose to deliver the third of the series this evening.
In the first lecture I stated at length the conditions under which the
various communications had been received; the character, position,
and capabilities of the medium through whom they were written; and
the agents by whom the medium was, from time to time, said to be
controlled. On the occasions referred to in my former addresses, the
subjects of inquiry included light, heat, magnetism, electricity, optics,
pneumatics, anatomy, physiology, music, harmonics, and the future
life; and the answers then given as illustrations of the modes in which
the questions asked were answered, were selected from the records of a
series of twenty-eight seances. It may have been supposed that on
those occasions I selected, not typical answers to various questions, but
specially excellent answers. In proof that there was no special selec¬
tion, some of the answers were incorrect; my object was to show, not
that all the answers were correct, but that, correct or not correct, they
indicated remarkable cleverness, some literary ability, and a great
general knowledge of the subjects under consideration, such as is,
probably, not possessed by any living woman, and, therefore, not
possessed by the medium. Those who expect to receive absolutely
accurate answers to numerous critical questions, on a great variety of
obscure and little understood subjects, from any inhabitant of either
this sphere or those that are beyond, know remarkably little of the
limitations that surround all conditions of finite existence.
On the present occasion I propose to give verbatim records of a series
of seances, in which there is no attempt at selection, and where the
questions and answers follow each other exactly as they were written
during the respective seances.
I may state, that at each seance there were present the lady medium
and two or more gentlemen ; that the whole of the proceedings were
conducted in a room illuminated by gas; that each member of the circle
was distinctly visible; that the lady medium visibly wrote, or, her hand
was controlled to write, the answers to the various questions ; that the .,
answers were written immediately after the questions were asked, with i
great rapidity, and without the slightest hesitation; that the questions i)
were all written by myself, and were answered in writing through the j)
hand of the medium; that the MSS. books containing the original | (
questions and answers are now in my possession; that the copies I am j
now about to present are verbatim extracts from the MS. records; that j |
no human being except myself knew what questions were to be asked;
and that no previous hint had been given to the medium of the character
of the questions I proposed to ask.
Under these conditions there was no possibility of preparation, and
the answers, therefore, may be taken as spontaneous and immediate
answers, without time for reflection, and without any opportunity for
revision. In estimating the merits or demerits of these answers, reason¬
able allowance should be made for the conditions under which they
were written, it being far more difficult to compose and write imme¬
diately at the impulse of the moment, under the keen supervision of
observers, than to write in private, with time for reflection, reference,
and revision.
I now propose to give the results of a series of seances held in a pri¬
vate room in Newcastle-on-Tyne. The medium had been unwell for
several months, and had just recovered from a succession of illnesses,
which threatened for some weeks to terminate fatally.
The mode of treatment pursued during these illnesses, and the reason .
why treatment of a very exceptional character was followed, will be j<
printed in the work giving a description of the remarkable psychological
phenomena that occurred through the mediumship of the lady, which it
is my intention to publish.
The material for the work is now entirely in my possession, and on
the receipt of the required promises of support, viz., subscribers for
1,200 copies, 400 of which have already been received, I shall take the
earliest opportunity of going to press with the work.
I do not require payment until the volumes are ready, but as no
profit whatever from its publication will be received by me, and I
give the whole of the time and labour necessary for its production
without charge, I may fairly ask that the whole number of subscribers
be obtained before I incur the financial responsibility of its production.
DESCRIPTION OP A SEANCE,
The following is a verbatim report of a seance held in Vardy’s Hotel*
Grainger-street, Newcastle, on the afternoon of December iTth^lSTB.
There were present, the medium, her husband, and myself. A fire was
burning, and the gas was lighted.
After sitting for about eight minutes the following was written by the
hand of the medium in a large folio MSS. book, which is used at the
seances :—
“lam sincerely glad to have the pleasure of meeting with you again;
it is so much more than I had expected.”
I then wrote:—
Ques. We are equally glad to have the opportunity of meeting you under
the present favourable conditions. We are happy to see that your
medium is quite r-ecovered. What course do you propose for this after¬
noon’s proceedings ?
Ans. Let me know what you want of me. I understand that you
wish to complete the remarks or answers to the questions you put to me
some months ago. Is it your wish to begin a new series, or to finish up
* An address delivered to the members of the Psychological Society of Newcastle-on- l)'
Tyne, in their large room, Weir’s-court, Newgate-street, Monday evening, April 23,1877. j) i
Mr. John Mould occupied the chair, and there was a large attendance! At the conclusion i) i
of the lecture several critical questions were asked and. answered, 111
I what remains of the subjects we have had in hand. If a new series
then, out of chemistry, anatomy, and the others I before mentioned,
what do you choose to begin with first ?
Q. I think it very desirable that we should proceed with chemistry,
and continue anatomy, but before doing so it occurs to me that it might
be desirable to have three features in the phenomena quite cleared up.
I should like personally to have a drawing, the more elaborate the
better, under strictly test conditions, that would to the sitters be ab¬
solutely satisfactory; I should like also to have a communication in any
kind of foreign language, with which the medium is unacquainted, the
J longer the communication the better. I should like you to give us as
)| definite information as possible, as to the conditions and circumstances
iof your present life and associations, that is a clear description of the
sphere in which you at present dwell.
A. To the first I can only say that so little depends upon us in the
drawing of a portrait, and so much on the medium, that I can give you no
| adequate answer as to when such might be obtained. It would be a
j good idea for you to be always in readiness with the necessary condi¬
tions, so that at any time the opportunity occurs, it might not be wasted
because something was wanting on your part.
| I can easily promise the second, but make sure what your medium is
| really acquainted with.
| As to the third, I will do my best for you at any time; but you must
I understand it is a difficult matter to explain, seeing that I can give you
)j nothing very tangible to reason from, but perhaps we may come to an
j| understanding if we try.
) | Q. Thank you. We shall endeavour to have such conditions as to
11 take advantage of the opportunity of a portrait when it presents itself.
With respect to foreign languages, I think a good long sentence, written
j rapidly in Arabic, by Dr. Aaron on his own speciality, viz., anatomy
(j and physiology, would be perfectly satisfactory; or, if he prefer it, a
ji long sentence in Syriac, and, if it be possible, a translation of one into
)j the other. We shall this afternoon, if it please you, take questions on
11 the conditions of the spirit world, and I’ll begin by asking you to answer
the following :—
CONDITIONS OF THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Q. Have spiritual bodies in your sphere force similar to natural
bodies in our sphere ?
A. Yes.
Q. You speak of houses, mountains, and valleys in the spiritual
world. Are they impervious to spiritual bodies, as our mountains are
impervious to natural bodies ?
A. Yes; they seem precisely the same as your mountains, valleys,
and landscapes do to you.
Q. Are your mountains, valleys, and landscapes as impervious to you
as ours are to us ?
A. Yes; and with the exception of our being able to travel, as it
were, by the exercise of will-power, or volition, would present the same
obstacles to our progress.
Q. Please describe some of the laws that regulate spiritual substances.
Have you spiritual physics as we have material physics ?
A. It is very difficult to give you a definite explanation of the laws
which govern us, and then when you consider that what to you seem
intangible substances are to us ponderable realities, and vice versa, you
can easily understand that the whole laws which govern the realities of
our life and associations are absolutely reversed, or it would seem so to
you, until you are able to study and examine for yourself. It seems to
(| me that it is almost a waste of time to try to explain that which I am
ji so little fitted to do. I only mystify you, instead of making things clear;
i yet indeed it seems such a simple state of matters to us, till we try to
explain, then we are at a standstill for words to give you the ideas we
want to convey.
SPEECH AND SINGING.
Q. Is there anything in your world equivalent to speech and singing
in our world ?
A. Imagine yourself deprived of every organ of sense, such as seeing,
hearing, speaking, &c., and yet having all senses, or one embodiment
of all the senses, that you can understand without hearing, see without
ji seeing, speak without speaking. Can you imagine such a state of
i acute perception, such an intuitive faculty ? If you can, then I can give
ji you no better idea of the manner in which we see, hear, speak, and
jl understand—though I am not now speaking of those poor miserable
i beings who come among us without these senses, or sense developed, as
i many do, and who are for a time virtually blind, deaf and dumb, and
j | devoid of understanding, and only by slow painful degrees obtain the
j i gift of each of these senses, till in time they become merged into one.
| Q. Can you in the spiritual world produce oratorios, &c., such as are
i produced in the natural world ?
i A. Such music as may be produced on earth is but the faintest echo
j i of the sounds which may be heard among us, where everything, every
j j sense, is the perfection of senses ; every faculty we possess is the per-
j] fection of the faculties we possessed on earth. Can you not understand
j i that any artistic attempts on our part are the perfection of those we
attempted on earth.
WRITTEN RECORDS.
Q. Have you books and collections of records in your sphere, as we
have in ours ?
A. Yes; not the smallest trifle escapes record. There are histories of
those who inhabited this sphere before us, and who have gone on ; not
the smallest detail is lost among us.
Q. Is your writing alphabetic; and if so, is it phonetic ?
A. Perhaps the Chinese writing resembles ours more nearly than
anything else I could give you as an example. Each symbol is a
thought, an idea, and the reader is able to interpret not the symbol he
sees, but the thought expressed by the writer, and, according to the
reader’s development of sense, or senses, so much does the writing
Mat 4, 1877. THE SPIRITUALIST. 213
convey. For example, a comparatively undeveloped being reading a
sentence, would understand just so much as his development gives him
power to understand, while one more advanced would read much more
than the other. This is also difficult to explain.
Q. Thank you. This, of course, is also the case in the reading of
terrestrial writings. Could you favour us with a sketch of any one of
the written forms to which you refer, and give us its interpretation ?
A. I would, but I may not.
Q. Are there those in your sphere who correspond with the hopelessly
idiotic in our sphere ?
A. Yes; there are many who do; but there are none hopelessly
idiotic.
Q. What are the common occupations of the inhabitants of your
sphere ?
A. There are as many, nay, more, than in yours, and of a somewhat
similar character.
TRUE RICHES.
Q. Do the inhabitants of your sphere accumulate property in a
manner somewhat resembling that adopted by the inhabitants of this
sphere ?
A. No. In a commonwealth such as ours it is impossible. Here
every one works as much for his neighbour as himself—a man cannot
rise unless he does so because he has helped others to rise, and gains
only riches because he has helped others to do the same ; he only gains
to bestow upon others, and the more he bestows on others the richer he
becomes.
ACQUISITION OF KNOWLEDGE.
Q. Can you give us any idea of the knowledge you acquire in your
sphere, and in what respect it differs from that we acquire here?
A. I can only tell you how I gain or acquire knowledge. When you
or others wish me to tell you something respecting your laws of physics,
I can, by studying the laws of those in our sphere, repeat them to
you, interpreted, of course, into language suitable to the times in which
you live. The physical sciences which you are so much interested in in
your world, have their counterparts in ours, and a skilful interpreter can
easily make the reading of one do for the other, bearing in mind the
difference of each development, &c., which has been attained by our
friends to whom we communicate. We may not advance theories which
are in your province to discover and treat as facts, you would not believe
us if we did. We can only go with the times. We hear of your dis¬
coveries, and they amaze (?) us with wonder; what would be the
result of the communications we could make to you if we were allowed
to do so.
Conclusion. We are greatly obliged to you for the information you
have given us this afternoon, it is very interesting. Before we separate
permit us to thank you for the attention you paid to our medium during
her serious illness. We shall have pleasure in meeting you again. We
shall endeavour to meet you for a seance on Monday afternoon.
The following seance was held on Monday afternoon, Dec. 18, 1876;
present the medium, her husband, Mr. B , and myself. Gas burning.
Fire out. In a short time the hand of the medium was controlled,
and wrote—“ I am glad to meet you; what can I do for you now ?”
INCREDULITY EVERYWHERE.
Q. We shall, if you please, continue our questions on the conditions
of the spiritual world. You said that angels occasionally visit your
sphere. In what form do they come ?
A. In the form common to us all; they have come in the same to yon
in times gone by, but they have not been received as such; even here
they are doubted by the incredulous, who do not believe in the existence
of a yet higher sphere. There are many here who, if the Deity himself
were to come amongst them, would ask one another, how do we know
that He is what He represents Himself to be ? where are His
credentials ?
Q. Do you ever in person visit our earth, or do any inhabitants of the
spiritual world now do so ?
A. Assuredly. I have been among you many times, not visible to
any but those gifted with the faculty of what you call clear-sight, yet
still in person.
Q. Is there any limit to the number of persons whom you can instruct
at one time, as there is on earth. We can only address by voice a few
hundreds, can you in your sphere address much larger numbers, and if
so, how ?
A. There are none of us omnipotent, at the best. We are but men,
and have no power beyond that of mankind. After death we still have
the same powers and gifts, enlarged perhaps, but others share the same;
so that our power to instruct and address others is in the same propor¬
tion as on earth.
SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES.
Q. Have you training schools, colleges, professorships, and modes of
instruction similar to those we have here; and, if not similar to ours,
what are their peculiar characteristics ?
A. If I say we have schools for training the unopened minds of our
young and comparatively undeveloped, you must not understand that we
educate our uninstructed in the same manner as you do. We have
methods and methods; the greatest among us is the best teacher, and
he who is the best teacher and instructor claims the highest position
among us. There have been teachers, doctors, professors among you,
who have come to us ignorant and uneducated in the necessary rudiments
of a spiritual education, if you call it so in the most ignorant child, and
their progress has been slower. There are different grades of professors,
teachers, among us, as there are different classes of scholars. The
wisest is the richest, and a man’s riches consists in the amount of
wisdom he possesses.
Q. Do acephalous children born into this world live in the future
life ?
I A. I do not know. I said before, I would inquire, but I had forgotten.
I will do so before we meet again.
AVOCATIONS AND SOCIAL STATES.
Q. Thank you. What are your ordinary avocations? Please to
describe an ordinary day’s work in your sphere.
A. This I cannot do perfectly. I am a teacher, as indeed most of us
are; I am also a scholar—all of us here are both teachers and scholars.
We have recreations and amusements : this is mine. We work hard or
| otherwise, according to our desire to progress or get rich. The most
ardent inquirer after learning gets rich first, only to be able to give to
others the benefit of his acquisitions. If I am amused by doing this, I
am also learning a great amount, and so the time I spend in communi¬
cating with you through this or any medium is improving my knowledge
| of the sciences, and is not a great waste of time. My whole time is
j taken up with the work I have in hand; not an idle minute is spent, our
amusements are instructive, and our work a pleasure.
Q. Are there various grades and social states in your sphere ? Are
there those, for example, who follow manual labour, and those who
follow intellectual pursuits ?
A. I suppose you would call it intellectual pursuits, but to us it is
| what we consider manual labour. To the spirit, intellectual avocations
are as the manual occupations of the body. There are grades and
stations, barriers of caste, even as among you; not the caste as you
understand by the term, yet as imperious to the outsiders as in your
! mercenary and aristocratic society. These barriers are only to be
broken by the one who bears in his hands and face such recommenda-
| tions as the wholeness of mind, purity of purpose, and philanthropic
greatness, such as are the distinguishing features of the society of those
he wishes to enter. In our societies there are none who are not con-
| sidered equally worthy, not one in whom any lurking taint of his
| sometime associations is to be found. Caste is not to be broken through
here by the outside show of some plebeian, whose only credentials are a
seeming wealth; but the stamp of goodness and worth is to be plainly
j seen before they will be received.
Q. You said you were a materialist when on earth; have you found
! that that has affected you prejudicially in your present life ?
A. Very considerably. I think I had not so much to unlearn as many
\\ j have, not so many prejudices to overcome, but I had learned so little
|) that it has been terrible up-hill work.
Q. How many, if any, spirits attend persons in the present world ?
| A. Explain what you mean by “ attending.”
Q. How many are in special attendance upon any given person,
| (I assuming that persons are attended by spirits ? How many, if any,
| ordinarily attend Mr. B ?
A. I cannot say. Those by whom he, on earth, may have been
| (| regarded by affectionate ties, are usually to be found near him, or I
i) i should say so, speaking for myself from personal knowledge. I like
j) j to be beside those for whom I have the greatest affection. In some cases
|j| a person will be always surrounded by friends; others, perhaps, one
| j | solitary kindred spirit. It is quite impossible to give any number. I
i) have known scores of spirits near one who had some particular attrac-
i (! tion for them, and again I have known others whose loneliness has been
h| pitiable. Just according to the lovable qualities of a person, just so
|) j many spirits will he attract.
j)i THE STRUGGLE FOR EXISTENCE.
Q. Have you anything in your sphere equivalent to our struggle for
i | existence here, that is, must you work in order to live ?
|) j A. It is impossible to die, always remember that. To die is but to
| (| be born again, to resume the everlasting work of creation. To die would
hi be a great blessing to many who are too idle to work; yet on they must
i )j go, and a man even on earth can understand that to be idle is to be a
K miserable grovelling creature, too abject to raise himself without assist-
m ance from others. It is the same here; there are many who would
i) | rather die than work, but, as this is impossible, are content to eke out
\l j a miserable existence upon the scantiest proceeds of such work as they
\)! are of necessity compelled to perform.
Our next seances were held on Deo. 19 and 20, but on both occasions
the medium was unwell. At the latter seance the following was written
j through the hand of the medium:—
j.; “We must decline any attempt at communication this evening,
i (i although to-morrow we will be glad to receive your questions and con-
!) | sider as to our ability to give you those tests you require. Good night,
j i —H. Stafford.”
The following seance was held on Thursday, Dec. 21st, 1876, from 2
|j| o’clock till 3.45 p.m.; present, the medium, Mr. B., Mr. F., and myself.
I) | Gas burning. Fire out.
j) | After sitting a short time the hand of the medium was controlled to
! (| write the following:—
“I have seen the doctor, Aaron, and told him that you requested a
|)| written message from him in Syriac or Arabic. He did not at first
I (I seem inclined to grant it, but I think he may reconsider his decision,
}) j though I cannot say when it will be. I am also quite unable to promise
|) j you a portrait. As I said before, I can only do as others can, viz., help
Hi to supply conditions, to me quite as intricate a matter as is the darken-
;)! ing of the room to you, and of no more real assistance.”
IQ. Will'you please to inform us when Dr. Aaron arrives, in order that
| we may receive his communication ? In the meantime possibly you will
| answer the following question—Are space and duration infinite ?
| A. As far as I, with my limited means of judging can tell, it is (they
| are). Before answering questions, I should like to know if you, or any
one, is willing to go into the chemical question; not this afternoon, but
at any time ? I have been studying the subject with great interest, and
would like to continue it; but, before doing so, I should like to hear of
some of your latest discoveries, that I may keep up with the times.
214
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 4, 1877.
MATTER AND ITS PROPERTIES. I)
Q. We shall be glad to arrange for a series of questions on chemistry :(
at an early date. Thank you for your offer. Is matter, in your jj
opinion, infinite ? > |
A. Tell me, first, what you understand by matter ? j
Q. We understand by matter those substances that are amenable to j
our chemical analysis. j (
A. There are so many kinds of matter that it is difficult to get beyond i!
the pale. On earth you have matter amenable to such chemical agencies | |
as your world knowledge supplies. Here we have the same, though to j (j
you it is spiritual. To us, our world, ourselves j and surroundings are as Hi
material as are yours to you, and can be chemically analysed by us. So j i
far as I know, matter is infinite. j (!
Q. Had matter a beginning. | j
A. I cannot tell. I might give you a dissertation on metaphysics, in j j
order to show you how matter must have existed from all time—never ju
had a beginning—never will end; how through time the earth would j |
resolve itself into the simple elements from which it was composed; i|j
how new worlds would be built up of the old materials; how new j(l
creatures would be formed from the crust of the world’s inhabitants. I j. i
might go on in this strain, guessing at probabilities and possibilities, ijj
till I lost myself in a maze, and would leave you no wiser than you are ; j
at present. So I refrain.
Q. How do you discriminate between terrestrial substances and ! j
spiritual substances ? Have they the same substratum ? | I
A. This is such a simple question, I rather wonder at your asking, i i
Can you not easily understand that spirit, such spirit as we possess ! (|
here I mean, not the spirit of things yet higher than the plane on which | j
I live, is but the spirit of the simple elements to be found in your earth, ! |
and is composed, so far as I can yet understand, of the same chemical i (I
properties that the bodies we inhabit are built of. Mind, I am not up j j j
yet sufficiently in the chemistry of our sphere to say that it is so, as in j j
the bodies you inhabit. Our world is the same as yours, chemically ! j
speaking, and is composed of the same elements as is yours ; but, still, j j
not amenable to your chemical analyses, though your science is the 111
rudimentary  I !
Q. This sentence appears to be incomplete ; kindly finish it.
A. —part of ours; the more you know of any science in your terres- ! |
trial plane, the less will you have to learn here. . ! I
Q. Would you kindly give us your opinion of the relation which j j
exists between the physics of the brain and the phenomena of ordinary i j
consciousness? ill
A. Please leave all such metaphysical questions to one of the doctors, j I
I really am not equal to it.
Q. Are atoms material entities, or are they centres of force ?
A. The material part of the atoms is but the outer coating; the force m
which is the collecting or binding power which gives life and energy to 11|
all kinds of matter, is now almost beyond dispute the electro-magnetic I (!
force I once before spoke of, though at that time I believed and said that I i
this force, fluid, or property was the outside covering of all the atoms, |||
molecules, of which the earth or water is composed. When we go into m
chemistry I can better explain this, by showing the lines of force em- : ;
ployed by the different atoms and molecules of substances according to j 1 j
the size and substance, and by drawing off the outer electric or magnetic ! j i
covering continue to prove that within the atom is the replacing power, j (|
and that the central force still exists, even when withdrawn from the I j
magnetic attraction of other bodies. j j j
Q. Would you kindly give us a brief fundamental essay on chemistry, i j I
so that we may have our questions in some measure adapted to the i j!
knowledge you appear to possess ?
A. I cannot now; I have an appointment with Scheele in a few ijj
minutes. By the way, can you tell me what particular use you make of [ j
ozone? * Ijj
Q. We are not aware that ozone is used for any special purpose. |j|
There is a general opinion that its presence is conducive to health, and j :
an indication of the absence of noxious substances in the air. It is said | i
to be an allotropic condition of oxygen. | !
A. How do you prepare it ?
Q. It is prepared by strong currents of electricity, but we are not | j!
aware that in any case it can be entirely separated from other sub- j j j
stances and examined as a separate entity. : i
A. What relation does it, in your opinion, bear to iodine 1 I am only ! i
sounding your knowledge now. I wish to know what I may help | |
you in. i :
Q. We do not know the relation which it bears to iodine, except that j j
it is generally present where iodine is abundant. Would you kindly ; |
give us some information on the subject ? | |
A. I perhaps may do so presently. What does the odour of the ozone | j
resemble, or its colour, that that name should have been given to it ? ijj
Why that name, and j j j
Q. Your sentence is not complete. Ozone has the odour, and the test | j
gives the colour of iodine. Is that the source from which it derives its ! j i
name ? ■ ■ I j
A. Have you any other test beside the ordinary starch test used for (j
test purposes 1 ■ 1
Q. We do not know of any other test except the starch test. Would ]!
you please to inform us if there be ? j I j
A. I cannot stay longer. I will think over this and the test that can j |
be used. I cannot promise to go into the questions very deeply to-day, j | j
but I would like to continue asking you some. I will, however, go Ijj
now; if we meet again to-day I shall be glad to draw upon your know- j j i
ledge of the subject. [I
Q. Thank you; we shall have pleasure in meeting you again this j j
evening at six o’clock. j j j
[Mr. Barkas then read a series of answers, given by the’ controlling j j
intelligence, on chemical subjects, showing that the latter was well ac- j j I
quainted with chemistry.]
CONCLUDING- REMARKS.
I have this evening placed before you records of a series of stances,
on which questions have been asked on subjects that are quite outside
of the knowledge of all ordinarily educated people, whether male or
female. Those questions have been answered in a most logical and, on
the whole, satisfactory manner. The composition of the replies would
not disgrace any literary man or woman, and that especially so when
we realise the fact that the replies have not been revised, that they were
written rapidly without a single erasure or correction, and without the
slightest hesitation, and that in point of mere composition alone, apart
altogether from their originality and uniqueness, they probably could
not, under similar conditions, be exceeded by any living man. In
estimating phenomena of this kind, we must always bear in mind the
conditions. Here is a lady acting as an automatic agent or medium,
who has had a very rudimentary education, who has never devoted an
hour to scientific studies, who has literally no knowledge of the subjects
respecting which her hand writes, and yet the answers written through
her hand are such that I venture to say no living man who has not
read or heard them could equal them in their general correctness, their
originality, their freedom from glaring errors in grammar, their general
uniformity of excellence, their oneness on the one hand and diversity
on the other in the modes of expression. We must bear in mind that
the illustrations I have given in the three addresses I have had the
pleasure of delivering to your society, have been answers selected for
the most part from the communications of one of the controls who gives
the name of Humnur Stafford.
There are five or six others who use the hand of this medium for the
purpose of expressing their opinions in reply to questions that are
asked, and each of these controllers has his own peculiarities of expres¬
sion, his own specialities, and his own range of knowledge. I fail to
see any escape from the conclusion that it is utterly and hopelessly
impossible for a lady, with the education and capacity of the medium,
to give by any normal means the answers which during three evenings
I have submitted to you. When we bear in mind that these answers
are but a fragment of those I have received, covering almost the entire
range of physics, I am quite unable to refer them to any normal power
on the part of the medium, and equally unable to refer them to any
abnormal power which shall not recognise the hypothesis on which
their writers themselves assert they are based, viz., that they are written
by the persons who profess to write them, or by some persons who
systematically personate them.
All theories of unconscious cerebration, thought-reading, direct or
indirect terrestrial control, involuntary muscular action, reincarnation,
&c., are utterly and entirely futile. One thing must be self-evident to
reflective minds, that whoever, or whatever, are the communicators,
they must possess the special information communicated, inasmuch as
the information consists not of mere generalities which any ingenious
person may write by the volume, but of special and definite answers, to
special and definite questions, that can only be given by those who have
specific knowledge of various abstruse branches of science.
The whole tone and scope of these communications are masculine.
There is not a particle of the feminine element in their composition,
and yet every word was written automatically by the hand of a lady.
If these and similar communications and experiences ultimately
satisfy critical inquirers, they will remove crushing loads of serious
doubt from many earnest but sceptical minds, and lead to the adoption
of opinions that are very dissimilar to the ordinarily received theological
opinions of the present day, and yet more divergent from those held by
thinkers who coincide with the views expressed by Miss Harriet
Martineau, in a letter written to her friend Mr. H. G. Atkinson, a few
days before her departure from this sphere of existence. She wrote—
“ I cannot think of any future as at all probable, except ‘ annihilation,’
from which some people recoil with so much horror. I find myself here
in the universe—I know not how, whence, or why. I see everything in
the universe going out and disappear, and I see no reason for supposing
that it is not an actual and entire death. And for my part, I have no
objection to such an extinction.’’ Sad, sad words.
Even George Jacob Holyoake, whose defence of Secularism somewhat
redeems it, longing for immortality, says, in describing the departure of
his favourite daughter—“' My dada’s coming to see me! ’ Madeleine
exclaimed, on the night of her death, with that full, pure, and thrilling
tone which marked her when in health; ‘ I am sure he is coming to¬
night, mamma,’—and then, remembering that that could not be, she
said, ‘ Write to him, mamma; he will come to see me; ’ and these were
the last words she uttered, and all that remains now is the memory of
that cheerless, fireless room, and the midnight reverberation of that
voice which I would give a new world to hear again. Yes, though I
neither hope—for that would be presumption—nor expect it, seeing no
foundation, I shall he pleased to find a life after this!'
How much more hopeful and cheerful are the words of the Rev.
Stopford A. Brooke, who, at the close of his second discourse, in his
work entitled Christian Modern Life, says—“It will be pleasant, if
what I have said be true, for all of us to meet five hundred years hence,
and, interchanging our tidings of the earth, to find that the thoughts and
hopes of this address, in which many of you must sympathise, have not
been proved untrue.”
Again, and finally, many intelligent Spiritualists assert that they
know, or, at any rate, have an assured and rational belief, that man
lives in the future; and the evidence for that assertion is certainly as
strong—probably stronger—than are any of the hypotheses on which
science builds, and by which scientists explain and correlate the
wondrous phenomena of nature.
Sir Charles Isham, of Lamport Hall, Northampton, has written a
poem on Vegetarianism, which he is selling for the benefit of the
Vegetarian Society.
Mat 4, 1877.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
215
Pcettg.
FASHIONABLE GRIEF FOR THE DEPARTED.
Dear Sarah, darling Matt is dead!
My heart is very sore :
I have the sweetest mourning suit
Just come from Shoolbred’s store.
Ah, well! our loss is but his gain,
Insurance covers all.
No more I hear his cheerful voice,
His footsteps in the hall.
My dress is trimmed with real lace,
We had four doctors here ;
They called it “ softening of the brain,”—
My bonnet is a dear!
I know your sympathy is mine;
My heartstrings almost broke ;
“ Dear wife, my fortune will be yours ! ”
Were the last words he spoke.
I wear my hair done " pompadour,”
And so do all the ton:
Upon his stone these words shall be,
“ Hicjacet, dearest one! ”
I’ve kept a lock of precious hair,
His bank-books and his will,
By which he left me all his wealth
In railroad, bank, and mill.
There’s balm in Gilead I know,
And I may find relief:
Please send the latest fashions to—
Your friend in deepest grief.
DRESS RELIGION.
The following lines by Mr. W. H. Harrison, entitled “ The Quaker’s Address
to his Hat,” were originally published in Public Opinion, and are now being
set to music by Mrs. Weldon:—
I love it! I love it! my broad-brimmed hat,
With its surface so smooth, and its crown so flat;
And often my memory wanders away
To the thrice happy hours of my boyhood’s young day,
And I dream of the shop where I patiently sat,
While grandmother purchased my broad-brimmed hat.
When the maids at a picnic get caught in the rain,
Its shelter they seek, nor seek it in vain ;
And they say as the water pours off round the brim,
“ My goodness ! How much we’re indebted to him—
To the funny old man who owns this large tile,
With his ‘ Yerily yea! ’ and benevolent smile;
With his sober-cut coat and its lining of grey,
Oh! aint he a darling! Aye, ‘ Yerily yea ! ’ ”
Through the streets of the town I impressively walk,
Of attraction the centre, of gossips the talk,
And the little boys shout—“ What a regular flat
Is that funny old man in the broad-brimmed hat! ”
With my gingham umbrella their jackets I clout,
And ask if their mothers are sure they are out,
But the young rogues have always this answer quite pat—
“ Friend ! where didst thou purchase thy broad beaver hat,’’
When the sorrows of life set in like a flood,
And the nations are reeking with warfare and blood,
Its influence steals o’er my senses like rain—
Assuaging my anguish, relieving my pain.
Earth’s troubles depart, its dramas grow dim,
As I sink into slumber beneath the broad brim ;
And my dear little brother as well as the cat,
Oft takes a night’s rest in my broad-brimmed hat.
The rocks may be rent and the sea become dry,
And the moon disappear from its place in the sky ;
The sun may grow dim—a mere dusky red ball—
The empires of earth may totter and fall;
The idle may grin, and the wicked may frown,
The lowly despise, and the lofty look down,
And small boys be saucy, and rude, and all that,
Yet I’ll love thee ! I’ll love thee ! my broad-brimmed hat!
(Korrespotrtience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions diametrically opposed
to those of this journal and its readers. Unsolicited communications cannot be returned;
copies should be kept by the writers.]
CANON GILBERT ON SPIRITUALISM.
Sib,—In answer to your proposal, made in a leading article of The
Spiritualist of the 27th April, that I should deliver from the pulpit in
my discourse next Sunday at 11 am., “without alteration or emenda¬
tion,” the paragraph printed in small type, I beg to say that I shall be
most happy to comply with your request. Further, I will read the
proposition which you consider to be strictly identical with the one I |
made to Mr. Eglinton, that I should try to perform a cure with Lourdes |
water on a sick person at the rooms of the National Association of
Spiritualists. I will do so for these reasons:—First, because I think it
due to Spiritualism that the two strongest points, written with such force I
by a person of your position, should he made known; and secondly,
because it will give me the opportunity, in the first place, of refuting j
what you consider to be the test of Spiritualism, and, in the next place,
it will afford me the occasion of showing that what you consider a j
proposition strictly identical with the one I made to Mr. Eglinton, is
neither identical, parallel, or analogous, but the very opposite. I shall )
pass over the personalities you indulge in in your article, because I am
( I persuaded the educated public will be on my side in thinking
| that I ought not to answer them, and will appreciate at its full
j | value a cause which has to be advocated by arguments, such as those
| j which you, a representative defender, have used. Neither will I notice
(| several grave inaccuracies in your leading article, nor the contradictions
j • between certain statements therein and your report of my sermon,
| i because they will be patent to every intelligent reader. Already, many
(| who have read them, and especially some who were present at the dis-
| course, have condemned them in the very strongest terms, and have re-
I i quested me not to reply to them in your paper. This advice I intend to
! act upon with regard to any remarks that may be made in The Spiritualist
/1 on my coming discourses. But if any comments be made, and if they
(i seem to me of sufficient importance I will answer them from the pulpit,
i I trust you will do me the favour of publishing this letter in your next
| issue. Daniel Gilbert.
II 22, Finsbury Circus, E.C., April 30th, 1877.
(i Mrs. Lowe gave evidence yesterday before the Parliamentary Com-
(| mittee on the Lunacy Laws.
(i In Holland there appears to be more freedom for scientific research
/1 than in England. Not only has Dr. Slade not been vilified and abused
(j in the journals of that country, but the Dagblad, which is a very influ-
j ] ential newspaper, devotes three columns to one of M. Riko’s lectures on
(| Spiritualism containing descriptions of seances with Dr. Slade.
Mr. J. J. Morse’s Appointments.—On Sunday next Mr. Morse will
) | deliver a trance address in the Freemasons’ (old) Hall, Newcastle-on-
(j Tyne; subject—“Supernaturalism;” service commences at 6.30p.m.
j Also, at the same place, on Monday evening, May 7th, he will deliver
I an inspirational address on “ Spiritualism ; What is it ? and How Best
(| to Sustain it.” His other appointments areGlasgow, May 13 and
I j 14; Liverpool, May 20; Belper, May 23 and 24; Derby, May 25;
[ i Birmingham, May 27 and 28.
>| Spiritualism in Liverpool.—Large audiences continue to assemble
[! in Meyerbeer Hall to listen to the Sunday lectures of the Liverpool
j Psychological Society, especially when the lecturers are “normal”
> | rather than trance-speakers. Whatever may be the real explanation of
II the fact, such is the actual state of things at the present time. Last
\ i Sunday week, for instance, Dr. William Hitchman occupied the plat-
| form, and the Liverpool Daily Post describes the meeting, as follows:
j “ Meyerbeer Hall was filled to overflowing by a large and intelligent
| audience, to hear an address from Dr. Hitchman, on the subject, ‘Did
I Christ Rise from the Dead? ’ This question the doctor answered in the
(| affirmative, entirely from the standpoint of logic, reason, argument, and
i rigid criticism. He thought that St. Paul’s Epistles were unrivalled for
j genuineness and authenticity in Biblical literature. Mrs. Nosworthy,
(| whose literary and dramatic talents are widely known, will be the
! lecturer on the next occasion, to discuss the merits and demerits of
) | trance-speaking.” On the 29th ult., accordingly, Mrs. Nosworthy
| ( favoured the listeners with an address upon “ The Literature of the
j; Spirit-world.”
(| The Aldershot Ghost.—For the past month the camp of Alder-
) | shot has been almost nightly visited by what is intended to represent
I a ghost. The author of these practical jokes has up to the present
time escaped detection, and his doings have become the prevailing
topic throughout the camp. The object made its appearance about
four weeks ago to a private in the 19 th Regiment, who was on guard
at the north camp. It was midnight, and the sentry, perceiving
| something advancing towards him, gave the usual challenge, to which
| no reply was made. The challenge was repeated, whereupon the
would-be ghost went direct to the sentry-box, slapped the soldier
several times in the face, and before he could recover from his con¬
fusion made off across the common with astonishing bounds. The
soldier, in his excitement, loaded his rifle and fired, but missed his
aim. From here the ghost went twards the Military Cemetery, and in
i a similar manner attempted to frighten a private in the 100th Regi¬
ment, who was on guard by a powder magazine, and was again fired
I at, but without being hit. Nothing was heard of the ghost’s move-
i ments after the above adventures until about a fortnight since, when
he suddenly pounced upon a private in the 3rd Battalion 60th Rifles,
j sentry by a powder magazine near the Basingstoke Canal. It appears
that the ghostly visitor sprang on him from behind, and endeavoured
to snatch away his rifle. A sharp struggle ensued, which ended by
the soldier receiving a pair of black eyes and losing his shako, which
was found next morning in the canal. A few nights later a sentry by
the Female Hospital, south camp, was discovered by a file of the guard
on his post in a state of horror-stricken alarm, and on being asked
j what was the matter, pointed towards a retreating figure, which ap-
| peared to be a tall man dressed in a tightly-fitting white coat. This
was understood to be the supposed ghost, and a chase ensued, but the
object distanced all its pursuers, and was eventually lost to sight in some
I bushes. One sentry states that he was accosted the other night in the
I camp by some one with a mask, who informed him that he was the
| much-dreaded ghost, and his object was to show the nation how easily
| he could frighten the soldiers of the present day. At first there was
great excitement in the camp, but this has cooled down. Not the
slightest clue has been obtained as to who or what the daring indi¬
vidual is; but it might be mentioned that a few nights ago a tall
i gentleman, carrying a carpet bag, was met by some provosts and others
1 about twelve o’clock going into camp. He was stopped, but on stating
he was an officer they allowed him to proceed. It is hardly probable,
| however, that an officer would have been walking into camp at that
hour (there being no late train), or that he would have been carrying
a carpet bag; it is therefore not unreasonable to suppose that had the
j provosts followed the person in question the Aldershot ghost mystery
* would have been solved.—“ The Times,” April 28th.
216
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 4, 1877.
THE HISTORY OF THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL
SOCIETY.
( Concluded from page 171.)
Mr. J. J. Morse, of London, had, since the founding of the Psycho¬
logical Society up to the end of the year 1873, attended seventy of the
meetings of the society, and given 105 excellent addresses in the trance
state. Two of these lectures have been published by the society in
pamphlet form, viz., The Phenomena of Death, and What of the Dead?
The first edition sold off at once, and the committee issued a second
edition of several thousands.
The extra work of the society during the year of 1874 was as follows:—
On the 30th of June Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, of America, delivered,
under the auspices of the Liverpool Psychological Society, an inspira¬
tional address on “ The Future Life,” in the Concert Hall, Lord Nelson-
street ; and on the 1st July gave another oration, upon “ What is the
Practical Utility of Spiritualism P” The subjects were selected by the
audience. These orations gave general satisfaction, and were well
attended. Ur. Hitchman occupied the chair on both occasions.
On the 10th July, Dr. Hitchman became a member of the society;
and July 24th of the same year (1874), the society entered into alliance
with the British National Association of Spiritualists.
On August 26th, 27th, and 28th, respectively, Mrs. Tappan delivered
three inspirational orations in the Concert Hall, Lord Nelson-street,
Dr. Hitchman in the chair. The subjects on each occasion were chosen
by the audience, as follows:—“ Indisputable Evidence of Spirit Com¬
munion f ’ n Was Christ Necessary for the Salvation of Mankind ?” and
“ The Resurrection of the Body.” She gave two inspirational poems—
“ The Man, Jesus,” and “ Creation.” On Sunday, August 30th, after¬
noon and evening, Mrs. Tappan gave inspirational addresses and poems.
On Sunday, September 20th, Mr. Jas. Burns, of London, occupied the
platform at Islington Hall twice ; the subjects were—“ Spiritual Phe¬
nomena in Harmony with the Known Laws of Nature,” and “ What has
the Devil to do with it P” In the evening the hall was crowded, and
the lecture was listened to with great interest. On the 11th October,
the Rev. F. R. Young, of Swindon, gave two addresses in the same hall.
Nov. 19th and 20th, Dr. Sexton gave two lectures, under the auspices
of the society, in the Concert Hall, Lord Nelson-street, subjects—
“ How I became Converted from Scepticism to Spiritualismand
“ Objections to Spiritualism Stated and Examined.”
October 14th about thirty members of the committee and friends met
at Mr. Wall’s Temperance Hotel, by way of farewell to Mr. John
Davidson prior to his departure for North America, and on behalf of
the committee Mr. John Lamont presented Mr. Davidson with an
elegantly mounted inkstand, with suitable inscription, as a token of the
esteem and regard in which he was held by all with whom he had been
associated in furthering the cause of Spiritualism in Liverpool, more
especially in connection with the Psychological Society. A pleasant
evening was spent.
Sunday, December 13 th, 1874, Mr. Thos. Everitt, of London, occupied
the Islington platform twice. He gave several extracts from his diary,
descriptive of some of the extraordinary manifestations which had
occurred through the mediumship of Mrs. Everitt during the past few
years, especially “ direct writings,” specimens of which were shown to
the audience. In the evening Mr. Everitt read some of the writings
which specially referred to the historical accuracy of the Christian
records.
The last Sunday in 1874 closed with the delivery by Mr. John Priest
of two addresses on “Supernaturalism,” and “The Religious and
Philosophical tendencies of the Age.” The balance in hand at the end
of the year was £2 11s. 3d.
The union and good feeling of the members were exemplified by the
well attended meetings; the Sunday services were well supplied by
mediums, who attracted large and respectable audiences, and were
generally presided over by Mr. John Lamont, vice-president of the
society, an ardent worker. Mr. Lamont, after the election of the office¬
bearers for 1875, in addressing the members, enunciated the importance
of strenuously endeavouring to manifest that harmony and unanimity of
purpose which were so essential for the progress of the society; he
hoped that the members would bear with each other’s difference of
opinion as charitably as possible, since by so doing they would become
living examples of the higher aspects of Spiritualism; he said that they
ought to practically live out in daily life the exalted truths which had
been taught them by angel friends through the mediums on their
platforms.
The work of the year 1875 may be summed up by the statement that
most of the ordinary work was carried on steadily by local normal
speakers, including Mr. John Lamont, Dr. Hitchman, Mr. John Priest,
and others; these upheld the Sunday services with much advantage to
the cause. Mr. G. Farmer, of London, late editor of the Pioneer of
P?'ogress, Mr. J. Burns, and Mrs. Tappan gave special lectures. The
society had to grapple with circumstances under which it suffered to
some extent in numerical strength.
I select the following extract from the “ Annual Report—“ In pre¬
senting the annual report and balance-sheet for adoption, your secretary
labours under the disadvantage of accepting office under circumstances
which render it difficult to present such a report as would be satisfactory
to the society and himself, the cause of which need not be further alluded
to here, but the financial condition of the society has been in a great
measure retrieved by the kindness of Dr. William Hitchman, Mr. John
Priest, and others, who so kindly and efficiently gave their services free,
thus saving the important item of fees and other expenses.” The number
of members on the books was eighty-six, and the balance in hand one
shilling.
The society began the work of the next year, 1876, with a new set of
officers. Mr. James Wason, president, said that he felt that the time
had arrived when he ought to lay down his charge as president of the
i ! society, especially as he had only held that office for some time nominally;
i)| besides, his age was such that with infirmities coming on, he thought it
| (J would be beneficial to the society that it should choose a more active
|)| worker as president. He expressed his grateful sense of the esteem
i ? | in which the society had held him, and he wished it to prosper when
si he had passed from the scene of his labours. To Mr. Wason was
;j due, to a great extent, the founding of the society, and all along he
h had faced with cheerful and hearty good will every difficulty. When
s | no place could be had in which to hold meetings, he invited the few
)j seekers after truth to his own office, in which on one occasion the
<j table was taken up to the ceiling by the unseen powers, and then
sj smashed, while Mr. Wason exclaimed—“Dear spirit, be gentle.” His
11 wooing the spirit did not stop the power; one of the legs, after it
| i was broken from the table, moved about the room as if it were alive.
\| Mr. John Lamont signified his intention of resigning his vice-
)| presidency, a post which he had occupied from the beginning of 1873,
ji at the same time that Mr. Wason was elected president; and as Mr.
{I Wason had held his office nominally only, the actual conducting of the
jj society had fallen chiefly upon Mr. Lamont, who was always at his
ji post. At the time of delivering up his charge he said that he ven-
|! tured to congratulate the members on the fair measure of success at-
)| tending their labours during the year 1875. The society had given
11 special attention during the year to the higher or mental aspects of
j | Spiritualism, the platform being well supplied twice every Sunday by
trance or normal speakers; the result was the elucidation and expo-
11 sition, to a large extent, of the principles of psychology and physiology
(i in their relation to each other, and the true position of man in the
) | universe of being. The attention paid to the current theology of the
ji day, on the one hand, and to purely physical science on the other,
(| had been, he considered, of vital importance; by theology the mind was
i cramped by gross superstitions, by physical science the spiritual
j nature of man, and his noble duties and destiny, were altogether ignored,
j In this connection he had much pleasure in recognising the valuable
) i services of Dr. Wm. Hitchman and Mr. John Priest, for their able and
j scholarly addresses during the year.
»| At the close of the year 1875 Dr. William Hitchman was elected
i i president of the society, and Mr. John Ainsworth vice-president, Mr.
[i Louis Roberts secretary, and Messrs. James Wason, Jno. Chapman,
i i and Joseph Shepherd, trustees, with a good committee, having power
11 to add to their number. At the conclusion of the annual meeting, Dec.
j 31st, 1875, Mr. John Ainsworth presented the society with about fifty
! works on Spiritualism and cognate subjects. A vote of thanks was re-
| turned to him for his generous gift.
11 On Sunday, 4th June, 1876, the Meyerbeer Hall, Liverpool, was first
11 engaged for Sunday lectures. The inauguration proceedings commenced
1 j there at ten o’clock in the morning in the form of music, singing, con¬
versation, and fraternal greetings. The introductory lecture was given
! at three o’clock by Dr. William Hitchman, in the presence of a large
congregation; the doctor’s discourse took the form of a reply to the
| article in the current number of the Contemporary Review, entitled,
j “ The Courses of Religious Thought,” by the Right Hon. W. E. Glad-
I stone, M.P. Mrs. Nosworthy spoke in the evening to a crowded audi¬
ence, upon “ experiences ’’ of the coming life; it consisted of quotations
| from a recent trance address by Mrs. Tappan, under the control of Judge
Edmonds. Mrs. Nosworthy has spoken several times upon the same
platform in advocacy of the claims of Spiritualism. The speakers
during the year were confined to Mrs. Nosworthy, Dr. Hitchman, Mr.
i Morse, Mr. Harper, Miss Longbottom, Mr. Pride, and a few others
whose names I have forgotten. Recently work in Spiritualism has
taken more the form of the fostering of public lectures in the district,
the central work being carried on in Meyerbeer Hall, where regular
I Sunday evening services are held.
I conclude by saying that it has been my endeavour to give an unvar-
| nished account, free from gloss of any kind, and I think that this short
history of the Psychological Society of Liverpool may be more appre¬
ciated in times to come than now. This idea led me to undertake the
writing of a narrative, which I hope will hereafter be found to be of his¬
torical value.    .
I Next Sunday evening, at five o’clock, Miss Kislingbury will preside
at the tea-meeting and subsequent discussion, at the East London
Spiritual Institution, 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile End, E.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
T. (Manchester).—A talkative chairman is a mistake, and worries the listeners
by incessantly interposing his remarks; he should confine himself to a
speech at the close.
Several letters have been sent us of late containing allegations of an astounding
i nature relating to life on other planets, given in spirit messages. These
| statements are of little value, because of the absence of intelligent cross¬
questioning of the communicating intelligences, tending to bring out details
in support or otherwise of the major affirmations.
We are often asked what is the circulation of The Spiritualist, but decline to
give the information; it is the usual thing with newspapers, when idly
asked this question, to magnify their own circulation by six or eight, and
to reduce the circulation of their competitors by dividing the reality by six
or eight; Spiritualism ought to be kept free from such trade tricks. Some¬
times newspapers known not to be remunerative, announce a circulation
which would yield enormous profits, so by a little calculation on the part of
readers can be detected in barefaced untruthfulness. So far as the circula¬
tion of The Spiritualist is concerned, we believe it to be unequalled in the
West-end of London, also among the county families in this country, like¬
wise in international distribution throughout the world among the more in¬
tellectual Spiritualists. In Australia, in consequence of certain trade
manipulations, now removed, it is in a somewhat unadvanced state. Be¬
cause of the large circulation of this journal among influential Spiritualists
in the fashionable parts of London, we believe that Spiritualistic tradesmen
who reside therein will find this journal a valuable organ in which to
. advertise.
May 4, 1877,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
111
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY,
MESMERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND
BIOLOGY,
Representing the English and American Literature of Spirit¬
ualism, obtainable of W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist News¬
paper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury,
London, W.O.
[For purposes of mutual convenience the above office has been
rented on the premises of the National Association of Spirit¬
ualists, but the Association and The Spiritualist Newspaper and
publishing business are not in any way connected with each
other.]
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale
Owen, formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A
standard work containing interesting ;and well-authenticated
facts, proving the reality of spirit communion. It also contains
an elaborate essay defining the author’s views of the relation¬
ship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. 6d.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER
WORLD, by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorb¬
ing interest, replete with well-authenticated narratives, describ¬
ing manifestations produced by spirits. 7s. Od.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of
the Dialectical Society. This committee consisted of literary,
scientific, and other professional men who investigated Spiritual¬
ism for two years without engaging the services of any profes¬
sional medium, after which they published the report. Original
edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRIT¬
UALISM, by William Crookes, F.R.S. The best work ever
published to scientifically demonstrate the reality of some of
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, 5s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by
Alfred Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly
argument in reply to Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also
records a large number of interesting spiritual manifestations,
and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr. Wal-
IclCG 5s
PLANCHETTE; OR, THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE,
by Epes Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well-authenti¬
cated spiritual phenomena. Information about the relationship
of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is also given. 5s.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey.
A brilliant well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly
bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W.
Edmonds, Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, US. This
book consists of essays on the Social, Moral, and Scientific
aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 0d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? OR, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED, by Fred. A Binney, A practically useful work
for inquirers, giving general information about English profes¬
sional and non-professional mediums,'also about the periodical
and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM
IN ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important
facts connected with the early movement in this country with
which the author was identified, and an account of some of the
most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
WHAT AM I? Vol. II., by E. W. Cox,Serjeant-at-
Law. An introduction to Psychology. This book admits the
reality of some of the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but
argues that they are produced by an alleged Psychic Force,
unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of the
medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book,
which deals chiefly with Physiology, is out Of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev.
F. G. Lee, D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts
and Traditions relating to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions,
Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft. The author admits the
reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spiritnal-
sm to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, pre¬
viously unpublished, and prints the only authorised and com¬
plete account of the Apparition seen by one of the ancestors of
Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo„ 15s.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the
mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give
life experiences, scenes, incidents, and conditions illustrative of
spirit life. The preface says:—“Experienced spirits state pro¬
positions to man in the flesh as they would state them to each
other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for
granted because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in
the light of ail the reason and experience possessed by those
who receive their instructions.” 5s. fid.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes
Sargent. This work, by an American author of acknowledged
ability, gives an account of the materialisation of Spirits in
England and America during the past few years in the presence
of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated witnesses
of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also
contains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology,
morals, and religion; and it is prefaced with a portrait of the
materialised spirit Katie King, copied from a photograph of her
taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium light. 5s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev.
William Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous
thinker, and a writer of unquestioned ability. Contents: The
Anti-Supcmaturalism of the Present Age; Science and the
Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the Be¬
lieving Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles
and ^Science: the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-
Supernatural Misunderstandings; the Last Ecstatic; Matter
and Spirit; the.Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts on Spiri¬
tualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and
the Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature; Miracles
and Pneumatology: the Spirit and the Old Testament; the
Old Testament and the New; the Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit;
Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the Spirit. l2mo.,
500 pp. Cloth 10s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEC’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell).
7s fid.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In
tills extraordinary book the author, who is a Professor of
Geology in America, employed clairvoyants to reveal to him
by vision events connected with the 'early history of geological
specimens' these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and other
extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they like¬
wise saw the scenes by which these prehistoric animals (were
surrounded. The author also sent his clairvoyants to examine
portions of different planets, and they gave descriptions of the
inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of each. The
book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance
of a review of this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to tbe effect
that there is no doubt as to the integrity of the author, who also
possesses sufficient intelligence to select clairvoyants who would
not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the narratives
therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability
of clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about
distant places on earth, has been found sometimes to give ac¬
curate results and sometimes inaccurate results. The review
further expresses the opinion that if ever interplanetary com¬
munication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood
spiritual powers in man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single
volume.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits
through the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is some¬
times made by disbelievers that spirit messages are of a!trumpery
character, but these beautiful poems give evidence that all spirit
utterances are not so. "The Prophecy of Vala,” published
in this book, and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar Allen
Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote .during the whole
of his life on earth, Best edition, gilt, IQs. fid.; cheap edition,
7s. fid. „
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through
the mediumship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work,
is a collection of beautiful poems. 7s. fid.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H.
S. Olcott. Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr.
William Crookes and Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author
is a literary gentleman of high standing in New York, and the
book consists of descriptions of seances at which materialised
spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers,
their homestead, and tbe phenomena presented at their seances,
are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS
LIFE. By Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER
WHICH HELPED THEM TO PERFORM.MIGHTY WORKS.
By Allan Putnam. 6s.
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces
of music, and 550 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST.
By Washington A Danskin, 4s. fid. ?
POEMS BY ACHSA W. SPRAGUE, for many years a
public trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth
Sweet, with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspiration-
ally through the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s. fid.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL
MAN SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle.
This book argues that man is contemporary with tbe Mastodon,
and details the history of bis subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS; OR, GENESIS
AND GEOLOGY. By WilUam Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen.
3s. fid.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the
testimony of the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a
vision of scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED; OR, MESSAGES FOR THE
BEREAVED, FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY.
Christian spirit-messages given through the mediumship of F. J.
T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of,
and advanced teaching from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISM, by M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains
experiments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will.
2s. fid.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clair¬
voyant. fis.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem.
By Lizzie Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6<L
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive
principles, 6s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT
WORLD. Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s
translation.) 7s. fid.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles.
7s. fid.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s.
STATUVOLENCE ; OR, ARTIFICIAL SOMNAM¬
BULISM. 7s. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma
Hardinge. 15s.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 12s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting
little book, containing messages given by Spirits through the
Writing Mediumship of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and
Dr. Daniel H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU,
. giving information about Spiritual Phenomena among the
Amazulu and other Tribes of South Africa, by the Itev. Canon
Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TENYEARS’ INVESTIGATION
INTO THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM,
by Thomas P. Barkas.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS,by the
Rev. Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. fid.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
ARCANA OF NATURE. Two Vols. By Hudson
Tuttle, fis. per Vol.
ARCANA OF SPIRITUALISM, by Hudson Tuttle.
CAREER OF RELIGIOUS IDEAS, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2s. fid.
THE SPIRITUAL LYRE. A Collection of Songs for
the use of Spiritualists. Is. Paper, fid.
DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT, by Sir Walter
Scott, fis.
SIGNS BEFORE DEATH. A Record oi Strange
Apparitions, Remarkable Dreams, etc. 3s. fid.
STORIES OF INFINITY: 1. LUMEN.—2. HISTORY
OF A COMET —3. AN INFINITY, by Camille Flammarion. fis.
LIFE LINE OF THE LONE ONE; OR, AUTO¬
BIOGRAPHY OF THE WORLD’S CHILD, by Warren Chase.
4s. fid.
NATURE’S LAWS IN HUMAN LIFE. An Ex¬
position of Spiritualism. Cs.
VOICES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD, being Com¬
munications from many Spirits by the hand of Isaac Post,
fis. fid.
THE GADERENE; OR, SPIRITS IN PRISON, by
J. O. Barrett and J. M. Peebles.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION
TO MATTER. By 0. M. Burnett, M.D. 5s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
By Hugh Farmer, 1765. 2s. fid.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Con¬
tains Records of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnam¬
bulism, and Clairvoyance, and philosophical considerations con¬
nected therewith. This work gamed the prize offered for com¬
petition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. Cd.) 4s,
THE COMING MAN. By tbe Rev. James Smith,
formerly Editor of the “Family Herald” (2 Vols. j 10s
WORKS BV ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer.” s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations .* . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. „ . . . .76
The Seer. „III, „ . , . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . , . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . . . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography ot A. J. Davis . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . .36
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis; or, Truth v. Theology. . . .60
Answers toEver-reourring Questions from the People . .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . .36
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . .36
Harbinger of Health , . . . . • .76
Harmonial Man; or. Thoughts for the Age . . .36
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) . . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . .26
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion . . . .36
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . .76
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . ..60
The loner Life; or. Spirit Mysteries Explained . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . .50
Tale of a Physician; or. Seeds and Fruits of Crime . .50
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . . . .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology . . . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
S d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book,
recommended by The Spieitdalist Newspaper . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing in¬
teresting particulars and legends relating to Buddhism . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . .50
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . 12 6
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) ... . . . 15 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Owen . 7 6
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from
China to India (400 a.d. and 518 a.d.). Translated from
the Chinese by Samuel Beal, B.AV Tnn. Coll., Cam. . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus,
by_ the Rev. Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English,
with Preliminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James
Legge.D.D. . . > idi. . . . 10 8
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions inter
preted by Comparative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind;; or, A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer 5 0
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English
from the Chinese Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. .12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Ex-
S'anation of the Mysteries of Modem Spiritualism,
reams, Trance, Somnambulism, Vital Photography, Faith
Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous Congestion
VV 111, v/llglll J-iliO, Ullcoldf, dilllt AN Cl YUllo v/UIigcSblOn
by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . .20
The Dervishes; or. Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown,
Secretary of the Legation.of the United States of America
at Constantinople. , . . . . . 12 0
Son, Remember: an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond
the Grave, by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North
Germany and the Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In
three vols. ... .... 18 6
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed.
Translated into English immediately from the original
Arabic, by George Sale ..... 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.AS.
Special edition for Schools • , , . 10
CARTE DE VISITE PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELE¬
BRATED AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds; 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie
Doten: 4. Mr. Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late
Mr. William White; 7. Dr. Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M.
Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs. Conant.
CARTE DE VISITE PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY
WARD BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales
Forster. A useful Tract for Inquirers.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E.
Newton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H.
Powell, Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of
the Travels and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev.
J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R.
Hazard. Cd.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard.
fid.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Per¬
sonal Experiences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a
Gentleman oi Education and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER by
Adolphus Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Ser¬
jeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY 1 AM
NOT ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of
this little pamphlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine
good feeling, sound common sense, and deep thought.” fid.
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by
Hudson Tuttle. 2d.
SPIRITUALISM; ITS CAUSES AND EFFECTS,
by Baron Dirckinck-Holmfeld. fid.
THE DAY OF PENTECOST, AND ITS PHENO¬
MENA, by F. R. Young fid.
CONCERNING MIRACLES, by Thomas Brevior. 3d,
ALL ABOUT CHARLES H. FORSTER, THE
WONDERFUL MEDIUM. 2s.
ORDEAL OF LIFE. Given Psychometrically through
the mediumship of Dr. C. Gunnell. 2s.
MEDIUMSHIP, ITS LAWS AND CONDITIONS,
by J. H. Powell. Is.
AGASSIZ AND SPIRITUALISM, by Allen Putnam.
THE GIST OF SPIRITUALISM. A course of five
Lectures. By Warren Chase. 2s.
MESMERISM, SPIRITUALISM, WITCHCRAFT,
AND MIRACLE, by Allen Putnam. Is. fid.
IS IT THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE? by William
D, Gunning. 9d.
THE ROAD TO SPIRITUALISM by Dr. R„ T.
Hallock. fis.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST,
May 4, 1877,
HE GREAT QUESTION OF THE DAY.;
How to Prevent Premature Death from Disease, or
Prevention of the Propagation of Infectious Diseases. Startling
but True.
How long are we to he left in sanitary matters at the mercy
of the ignorant and careless ? The Times states that 100,000
cases annually of illness from typhoid fever alone may he set
down as preventable. Upwards of 500,000 persons have died
of this preventable disease since the death of PRINCE
ALBERT THE GREAT AND GOOD. Under the Mosaic
law the nations were in a higher position in sanitary matters
than the world to-day, while their appliances were rude in
comparison to ours.
INQUESTS. — A STARTLING ARRAY OF
PREYENTABLE DEATH.—Why should Fever, that vile
slayer of millions of the human race, not be as much and more
hunted up, and its career stopped, as the solitary wretch who
causes his fellow a violent death ? The murderer, as he is
called, is quickly made example of by the law. Fevers are
almost universally acknowledged to be preventable diseases;
how is it that they are allowed to level their thousands every
year, and millions to suffer almost without protest ? The most
ordinary observer must be struck with the huge blunder.
WHO’S TO BLAME ? For the means of preventing prema¬
ture death from disease read a large illustrated sheet given
with each bottle of ENO’S FRUIT SALT; the information is
invaluable. The Fruit Salt (one of nature's own products)
keeps the blood pure, and is thus of itself one of the most
valuable means of keeping the blood free from fevers and
blood poisons, liver complaints, &c., ever discovered. As a
means of preserving and restoring health it is unequalled; and
it is, moreover, a pleasant, refreshing, and invigorating
beverage. After a patient and careful observation of its effects
when used, I have no hesitation in stating that, if its GREAT
VALUE in keeping the body healthy was universally known,
not a household in the land would be without it, nor a single
travelling trunk or portmanteau but would contain it.
ENO’S FRUIT SALT.—A gentleman writes
“ In cases of bilious headaches, followed by severe
attacks of fever, ENO’S FRUIT SALT has acted like a charm
when all other treatment failed. The day is not far distant
when the neglect of its use in all fevers and diseases resulting
from poisoned blood will be considered criminal.”—See
Stomach and its Trials, 10th edition, post free 14 stamps.
What every TRAVELLING TRUNK and
Household in the world ought to
contain—a bottle of END'S FRUIT SALT.
Without such a simple precaution the JEOPARDY of life is
immensely increased.
As a HEALTH-GIVING, REFRESHING, COOLING, and
INVIGORATING BEVERAGE, or as a GENTLE LAXA¬
TIVE and TONIC in the VARIOUS FORMS of INDIGES¬
TION, use
ENO’S FRUIT SALT
(PREPARED FROM SOUND RIPE FRUIT).
It is the best preventive and cure for all Functional Derange¬
ments of the Liver, Temporary Congestion arising from Alco¬
holic Beverages, Biliousness, Sick Headache, Skin Eruptions,
Impure Blood, Pimples on the Face, Giddiness, Feverishness
or Feverish Colds, Mental Depression, Want of Appetite, Con¬
stipation, Vomiting, Sea Sickness, Thirst, &c., and to remove
the effects of Errors of Eating and Drinking; also Gouty or
Rheumatic Poisons from the Blood, the neglect of which often
results in Apoplexy, Heart Disease, and Sudden Death.
Notwithstanding its medicinal value, the FRUIT SALT
must be looked upon as essential as breathing fresh air, or as
a simple and safe beverage under all circumstances, and may
be taken as a sparkling and refreshing draught in the same
way as lemonade, soda water, potass water, &c., only it is much
cheaper and better in every sense of the term, to an unlimited
extent. Being a genuine product of nature, it is a true or natural
way of restoring or preserving health.
To Europeans who propose visiting or residing in HOT
CLIMATES, I consider the FRUIT SALT to be an indispens¬
able necessary, for by its use the system is relieved of poisonous
matter, the result of eating to nearly the same extent, and of
too rich food, as they do in a colder country, while so much
heat-making food is not required in the warmer climate. By
keeping the system clear, the Fruit Salt takes away the
groundwork of malarious diseases, and all liver complaints,
and neutralises poisonous matter. Out of a large number of
Testimonials we select the following:—
A M.D. (EDINB.) and M.R.C.S., L.A.C., London, writes
“ I am much pleased with your Fruit Salt, having tried it on
myself. Your theory and remarks are most reasonable.
Having nearly died of Typhoid, when studying at College,
being the only one out of sixteen who recovered, I mean to go
in well for purifying the blood. Though I am sixty-three, I
have not the least doubt it will be very serviceable to me.”
A. Gentleman writes:—“ I feel quite certain, if your FRUIT
SALT was known in INDIA and the COLONIES, that the
sale would not be limited to thousands of bottles per annum,
but MANY MILLIONS. India alone would use more than
all England.’,
“Your Fruit Salt is beyond all praise. I wish you would
sell it here; it would make its own way by its own merit.”—
T. A. Somerby, Councillor-at-law, 20, Old State House, Boston,
U.S.A.
A lady writes: “ Everything, medicine or food, ceased to
act. properly for at least three months before I commenced
taking it; the little food I could take generally punished me or
returned. My life was one of great suffering, so that I must
have succumbed before long. To me and our family it has
been a great earthly blessing. I feel I cannot say toe much
for it. The least I can do is to do my best to make the Fruit
Salt known to other sufferers. I am getting better rapidly,
and expect to totally recover, after spending hundreds of
pounds and travelling about for twelve years.”
Messrs. Gibson and Son, Chemists, of Hexham, say: “ Since
we introduced your Fruit Salt at Hexham a few months ago,
we have sold upwards of 1,000 bottles, and it gives general
satisfaction, as customers who get it almost always recommend
it to their friends. We have had numerous instances of its
great efficacy in the cure of bilious headaches, indigestion, or
stomach complaints, &c.”
“ 14, Rue dela Paix, Paris, Jan. 16,1877.
“ A gentleman called in yesterday. He is a constant
sufferer from Chronic Dyspepsia, and has taken all sorts of
Mineral Waters. I recommended him to give your Salt a trial
which he did, and received great benefit. He says be never
knew what it was to be without pain until he tried your Salt,
and for the future shall never be without it in the house.
“ M. BERAL.”:
Sold by all Chemists, price 2s. 9d. and 4s. 6d.
Sole Agent for Paris—PH A RMACIE DE BERAL, 14, RUE
DE LA PAIX.
SPIRITUALISM:
New Works on its Phenomena, Philosophy, and
Present Position.
BY “ M.A. (OXON.)”
I HAVE been frequently asked to publish a book on Spirit¬
ualism. The facilities which I have enjoyed for personal
investigation, my acquaintance with the literature of the
subject and with prominent workers in it, and the attention
that I have paid to the investigation of its various phases, have
seemed to many to fit me for such a duty.
It is easier asked than done. A book on Spiritualism, if it
did but sketch the subject, should be very voluminous; and,
when written, it would be found to omit more than it dis¬
cussed or recorded. I cannot write such a book; nor do I
think it desirable that any such attempt should be made in the
present state of our knowledge.
But I do think it very important that any person who has
special facilities for observation should use them, and record
their results as best he can. In this belief, I have kept careful
records of what I have seen, and from time to time have pub¬
lished Essays and Reviews on the published opinions of others.
I have also printed a number of chapters of Personal Research
in the Phenomena and Philosophy of Spiritualism, and have
selected, from a mass that have been automatically written out,
certain Spirit-teachings.
I propose to collect and complete these works.
First, I wish to print a volume of Essays and Reviews.
It will contain, in addition to a number of Reviews of works
of standard American authors—Olcott, Sargent, Tuttle,
Crowell, and others—and a long Essay on the Transcorporeal
Action of Spirit, which have already appeared, much original
matter not yet published. A special feature of the book will
be the introduction to general readers of the best books on
Modern Spiritualism.
The volume will be published at 10s if sufficient names are
enrolled as subscribers to show that such a book is wanted,
and will pay expenses. I decline pecuniary risk.
I propose hereafter (but not now) to issue two other works,
—one “ Spirit Teachings,” dealing with the religious aspect
of the question; the other, “ Researches in the Phenomena
and Philosophy of Spiritualism,” dealing with the whole
subject in its experimental phases, and with the theory and
philosophy of it. These will come in due time if they find
a place.
For the present I put forward only “Essays and Reviews.”
The following friends have kindly formed themselves into a
committee with a view of carrying out business arrangements.
Those to whose name * is prefixed will receive names of
Subscribers, and Mr. Percival, the Treasurer, will receive
subscriptions as they become due.
Details of publication will be given when it becomes clear
that the book will meet a demand. Unless a sufficient number
of copies—about 600—be subscribed for I shall consider that
it is not wise to print.
I respectfully beg that no business letters may be sent to
me, as my time is already overtaxed.
“M.A. (OXON.).”
Names of Committee.
*Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-sq., W.
Mrs. Fitz-gerald, 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde Park, W.
♦Mrs. Tebb, 7, Albert-road, Regent’s Park, N.W.
*S. T. Speer, Esq., 13, Alexandra-road, N.W.
*0. O. Massey, Esq., 96, Portland-place, W.
T. Shorter, Esq, 23, Prince of Wales’-road, N.W.
*B. Coleman, Esq., 1, Bernard-villas, Central-hill, Upper
Norwood.
F. W. Percival, Esq., 15, Conduit-street, Bond-street, W.,
Treasurer, to whom all Names are to be sent in,
together with all subscriptions when payable.
Subscribers who do not wish their names to be published,
should inform Mr. Percival to that effect.
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES AT
HOME.
Inquirers into the phenomena of Spiritualism should begin
by forming circles in their own homes, with no Spiritualist or
professional medium present. Should no results be obtained
on the first occasion, try again with other sitters. One or
more persons possessing medial powers without knowing it
are to be found in nearly every household.
Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool
rather than warm—let arrangements be made that nobody
shall enter it, and that there shall be no interruption for one
hour during the sitting of the circle.
Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about
the same number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered
wooden table, with all the palms of the hands in contact with
its top surface. Whether the hands touch each other or not
is usually of no importance. Any table will do, just large
enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The re¬
moval of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no
harm, but when one of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving
the table it sometimes, but not always, considerably delays the
manifestations. -
Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils
and some sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write
down any communications that may be obtained.
People who do not like each other should not sit in the same
circle, for such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifes¬
tations, except with well-developed physical mediums; it is
not yet known why. Belief or unbelief has no influence on
the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is fre¬
quently found to be a weakening influence.
Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in
general conversation or in singing, and it is best that neither
should be of a frivolous nature.
The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a
feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first
manifestations will probably be table tiltings or raps.
When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to
avoid confusion let one person only speak; he should talk to
the table as to an intelligent being. Let him tell the table that
three tilts or raps mean “Yes,” one means “No,” and two
mean “Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrangement is ’under¬
stood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, and spell us out a mes¬
sage ? ” Should three signals be given, set to work on the
plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent system of
communication is established.
Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the
right order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some
members of the circle will then be told to change’s eats with
each other, and the signals will afterwards be strengthened.
Next ask “Who is the medium?” When the intelligence
asserts itself to be related or known to anybody presem, well-
chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as the alleged spirits are found to exhibit all the
virtues and all the failings of humanity.
THE SPIRITUALIST FUND.
ANNUAL SCBSCRIPTION FOR 1877 AND 1878.
. £ s. d.
Le Comte de Bullet  go 0 0
J. N. T. Martheze, Esq.    20 0 0
Martin R. Smith, Esq. 20 0 0
Alexander Tod, Esq  16 0 0
Charles Blackburn, Esq  10 0 0
Alexander Calder, Esq   10 0 0
N. F. Dawe, Esq    10 0 0
G. C. Joad, Esq    10 0 0
The Hon. A, Aksakof   10 0 0
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D   10 0 0
Sir Charles Isham, Bart   10 0 0
M. R. 1  10 0 0
James Mylne, Esq  10 0 o
X  10 0 0
B  6 6 0
O. T  6 5 0
George Sutherland, Esq  5 5 0
T. E. Partridge, Esq  5 0 0
Thomas Grant, Esq     5 0 0
The Countess of Caithness  6 0 0
Mr. and Mrs. Cranstoun  5 0 0
A Friend  5 0 0
B  3 0 0
Mrs. E. Dixon         2 2 0
The Rev. W. Whitear   2 2 0
Dr. Baikie    2 2 0
Miss Whitear   2 2 0
Hensleigh Wedgwood. Esq., M.R.1  2 2 0
Mrs. Lowe     2 2 0
S. J. H.   2 2 0
H. G. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S    2 2 0
Ennesfallen  2 2 0
W. C. Pickersgill, Esq.  2 0 0
W.     2 0 0
G.V  2 0 0
S. T. Speer, Esq., M.D   2 0 0
W. M. Buchanan, Esq., M.D  2 0 0
A. Vacher, Esq  2 0 0
Colonel Olcott   2 0 0
The Baroness von Vay  1 10 0
George Lee, Esq  110
G. R. Tapp, Esq  110
Mrs. Maltby         110
B. W. Pycock, Esq  110
Mrs. Nos worthy  1 1 0
C. T. Hook, Esq  11 0
Major Menars  110
A. Glen dinning, Esq  110
T. P. Barkas, Esq., F.G.S  110
D. Fitz-Gerald, Esq., M.S.Tel.E  110
Mrs. Hennings   110
Dr. George Wyld   11 0
Miss Allen  110
W. P. Adshead, Esq     110
John Mould, Esq.    110
J. P. Turner, Esq i......... 110
J. T. Dodd, Esq  110
Mrs. Jeffreys   110
J. O. Eno  110
Miss Douglas     10 0
John Scott, Esq  10 0
J. O. Ferguson, Esq  10 0
A. O. Swinton, Esq  10 0
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory   10 0
Mrs. Tyndall   10 0
Lieut.-Col. Jacoby  10 0
John Chapman, Esq       10 0
G. F. Green, Esq    0 10 6
Mrs. E. K. Beeby   0 10 6
R. Catling  0 10 6
E. R    0 10 6
J. Hare, Esq  0 10 0
M. J.Walhouse, Esq    0 10 0
A Friend  0 10 0
A Friend   0 10 0
T. H    0 10 0
Miss Pearce      0 6 0
J. T. M    0 6 0
Subscriptions to this Fund should be remitted to W. H.
Harrison, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O.
Price 2d.
Spiritualism in the bible iden¬
tical WITH MODERN SPIRITUALISM. By F. J.
Theobald. This useful little pamphlet is intended to meet
a growing want among a large number of inquirers into Spirit¬
ualism. It consists of a carefully selected and condensed
collection of instances of medial power and Spiritualistic phe¬
nomena as recorded in the Scriptures, and shows their analogy
to and connection with the manifestations now gaining such
great power throughout the world, especially among so-called
“ Modern Spiritualists.”—W. H. Harrison, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
MEDIUMSHIP: ITS NATURE AND
VARIETIES.—A Pamphlet containing useful infor¬
mation for those who hold or who are about to hold spirit
circles in their own homes. Published at The Spiritualist
newspaper branch office, 38, Great RusseU-street, London,
W.O. Price Id.; post free for IJd.; or six copies post free
for 6d.
By Royal Letters Patent
“ KRINE COSMETIC,” THE HAIR
BEAUTIFIER,
PROMOTES THE GROWTH OF THE HAIR, AND
IMPARTS TO IT A HEALTHY BRILLIANCY;
IT CLEANSES THE HEAD, AND
RESTORES TO GREY HAIR ITS ORIGINAL COLOUR.
It is a Preventive of Cold in the Head, and affords a
grateful relief to Headache.
This Hair Wash will not soil the most delicate Lace).'
Cambric. It is entirely free from lead and all other mineral
and noxious ingredients, as may be proved by chemical
analysis.
The above fact renders THE “ KRINE COSMETIC" an
invaluable preparation for the Nursery as well as for the
Toilet of the Adult, superseding the use of Pomade or any
other emollient.
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers at 3s. 6d. per Bottle,
Wholesale and Retail by Field and Co., 267, High Holborn,
London, W.C.; or of Mr. John Rouse, 80, George-street,
Sloane-square, S.W.  
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the
Holborn Printing Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn.
in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and St. George
the Martyr, London, and published by E, \Y. ALLEN, Ave
Maria-lane, London, E.O.
