A RECORD OF THE PROQI\E££ OF THE ^CIEJMCE AND ETHICg OF 5PIF(ITUAEI/3M.
[REO-ISTEEED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 51.—(Vol. iil-No. 12.) LONDON : MAY 1, 1873.
Published on the 1st and 15th of every
Month; Price Pourpence.
<&ontent!3*
Stage Imitations of Spiritual Phenomena     178
Spirit Forms, and Suggestions as to the Management of Circles ... 181
What am I?   ....       7  182
Review—Where are the Dead? or, Spirituahsm Explained ...   183
The Anthropological Institute—Religious Behefs of the Santeux In¬
dians ; Visions Produced by Fasting; Physical Mediumship of Caugh-
ske-kaw-Bunk; the Spirit-World of the OjiboisIndians; the Heaven
and Hell of the Ojibois; the Discussion        184
Spiritualism in Liverpool  186
Correspondence—Mrs. Bassett’s Mediumship; Spiritualism and Chris¬
tianity ; Apparitions; An Unruly Spirit    188
Mrs. Andrew’s Mediumship  {  190
Answers to Correspondents   W    ... 191
Paragraphs—Spiritualism in Birmingham, 187; Spiritualism in Hex¬
ham, 187; Spiritual Revelation of a Murder, 189; Organisation
among Spiritualists, 189; Spiritualism in Edinburgh, 190; London
Anthropological Society        191
The Best book for Enquirers—The latest phenomena!
WHERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED.
An account of the astounding phenomena of Spiritualism affording positive
proof by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; that Spiritualism is sanctioned by Scripture
and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens of com¬
munications received; extracts from its literature; advice to investigators;
addresses of mediums, and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; post free 38 stamps, or four copies for 10s. 6d. from Messrs.
Ireland & Co., publishers, Manchester, from whom copies of the table of
contents can also be had for distribution.
London : Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING- LIBRARY, &c., &C., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane;
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on" sale.
B
RITISH IMPERIAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
LIMITED.
Incorporated pursuant to Act of Parliament.
Capital—£200,ooo in 200,000 Shares op £1 Each.
Head Offices: BROWN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
Chief London Offices: .20, KING- WILLIAM STREET, E.b.
Central Trustees:
Augustus Frederick Baypord, LL.D., Senior Registrar, Court of Probate
Doctors’ Commons, London; and Chancellor of the Diocese of Man
Chester.
William Gtmber Goodliffe, Accountant G-eneral, India Office, Westminste
London. .
Charles Oppenheim (S. Oppenheim & Sons), Director of the Union Bank
of London, Austin Friars, Old Broad-street, London, E.C.
Christopher WeGuelin (Thomson, Bonar & Co.), Director of the Bank of
England, 57a, Old Broad-street, London, E.O.
Auditor: Dr. William Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., London, and Southlands,
Bromley, Kent.
The system of Insurance carried out by the “British Imperial”
(originally devised by Dr. Farr, F.R.S., &c., &c., of Somerset House, and
adopted with some modifications by her Majesty’s Government), is perfect
in Security, Equity, and Convenience.
In Security, because every With Profit, and Self-Insurance Policy, is
issued upon -English Government Securities, held in Trust, away from the
control of the Directors, for the sole purpose of meeting policy claims, the
amount invested (80 per cent, of the whole premium) being shown by the
National English Life Table, compiled by the Registrar-General for the
Government to be more than sufficient to provide the sum insured under
the policy.
In Equity, because in the event of an Insurant failing to continue the
payment of his premiums, only sufficient thereof is retained by the Corpora¬
tion to profitably cover the risk incurred upon the life during the time it
was covered by the insurance; the remainder being returned to the Insurant.
The amount returned varies according to the Table under which the
Insurance is effected, between nearly one-half and three-quarters of all the
premiums.
In Convenience, because the “ Surrender Value ” is endorsed on every
Policy, and is made payable at three days’ sight. It can also be used to its
full amount, by payment of 5 per cent, per annum interest on the sum with¬
drawn, without invalidating the Policy.
JOHN A. FEIGAN, General Manager.
WILLIAM DAVIES, Secretary.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM, 74, Navarino road, Dalston, E. Stances are held
every Thursday evening at 8 o’clock; and a Library is in course of forma¬
tion for use of members. Prospectuses and Rules on application to the
Secretary. Subscription 3s. per quarter in advance. Thos. Blyton,
Secretary, &c.
The psycholooical society of Edinburgh
Meets on the FIRST and THIRD WEDNESDAYS of. each Month,
in the CRAIGIE ROOMS, 5, St. Andrew-square, at 8.30 p.m. Business for
7th May Meeting:—The Reading of the Sub-Committees’ Reports; Paper
on “Impressions,” by the Secretary; the Election of Office Bearers.
B
RITISH N'ATIONAL INSURANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED.
Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head O#ces.-BROWN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates.
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums.
ARON FRANKLIN, PRESERYER OF BIRDS
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE, Museums and
private collections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’ heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 58, Suffolk-
street, Birmingham.
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are' issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
SELECTED BY HER MAJESTY’S COMMISSIONER FOR THE
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITIONS.
PHOTOGRAPHS.
Prices from 6s. per Dozen.
MR. A. L. HENDERSON,
OF 49, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON BRIDGE,
AND OF 2, AMERSHAM ROAD, NEW CROSS, S.E.
Photographer on Enamel to the Queen.
EPPS’S COCOA. — The Civil Service Gazette
remarks—“By a thorough knowledge of the natural laws which
govern the operations of digestion and nutrition, and by a1 careful application
of the fine properties of well-selected cocoa, Mr. Epps has provided our
breakfast-tables with a dehcately-flavoured beverage which may save us
many heavy doctors’ bills.”
Made simply with Boiling Water or Milk.
Each packet is labelled—
JAMES EPPS & Co., Homoeopathic Chemists, London.
Also makers of CACAOINE, a thin Evening Beverage.
, Chief Offices for Guarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.C. ,
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities.
British imperial life, and British
NATIONAL (FIRE AND GUARANTEE) INSURANCE COR¬
PORATIONS.
Applications for Agencies to either of the above Corporations can be
made to C. W. Pearce, at the Chief London Offices, 20, King William-street,
E.O., from whom Prospectuses, Proposal Forms, and all other information,
can be obtained.
Price 6d. Cloth, 9d. Post free.
HEAYEN OPENED.—Part II. being further descrip-
tions of, and advanced teachings from, the Spirit Land. Given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. With an Appendix containing the
Scripture proofs of Spiritualism.
J. Bums, 15, Southampton-row, W.C.; E. W. Allen, 11, Ave-Maria lane, E.C.
Also Part I., price 6d. Cloth, 9d.
178
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 1, 1873.
Spnkalht &ixri$ptat
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSThree shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word.
The Spiritualist Is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes. ,
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 4s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregulanty in the supply of “ The Spiritualist ” in
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. JV. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lme,
E.C., should always be informed of such impedimeiits and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES. .
Eochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Eichard Boberts, 1026, Seventh Street,
AUSTEALIA,
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Eussell-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny;
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 12s; 6d., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
STAGE IMITATIONS OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA-
We have received tlie following letter from Mr.
Coleman :—
To the Editor of the “ Spiritualist."
Sib,—You had an article recently to account for the pro¬
bable way in which the Maskelyne and Cooke performances
were managed, from which I entirely dissent, and for thi«
reason, that I believe these men are remarkable mediums,
and that the chief feats which they do,—viz., the getting in
and out of a corded box, getting out of the stocks, and in and
out of the cabinet, in an instant of time, are accomplished by
spiritual agency, and may be placed in the same category as
the passing of flowers and living animals in an instant of
time, to a closely sealed room, through all barriers which I
and others have more than once recorded, and are, I think,
spiritual facts of great significance. Before, however, we had
any such proofs of living animals passing through matter, as
are now known to most Spiritualists, I had heard of isolated
instances of this nature, and in 1865 the evidence was brought
home to me in London, and established in the most satisfac¬
tory manner ; and again in Glasgow, in 1866 (see the Spiritual
Magazine of February, 1866).
About the beginning of 1865, and arising out of the excite¬
ment caused by the extraordinary exhibition of the Davenport
Brothers, I heard from one and another of my acquaintances
on the Stock Exchange that there was a clerk to a member,
who was exhibiting at his nwn house, and for the amusement
of his friends, some startling phenomena which even trans¬
cended in wonder anything done by the Davenports.
This person was Mr. J. H. Addison; and the statement
made in the private office of my friend, Mr. James Hutchin¬
son (the late chairman of the London Stock Exchange), to
him and myself, by his successor, the then chairman of the
London Stock Exchange, Mr. Selons, who, with his brother
(also a member of the Stock Exchange), had been, on the pre¬
ceding evening, to the house of Mr. Addison, and witnessed
phenomena which they described as follows :—
They were introduced, they said, into a plainly-furnished
dining-room, in which there was a large-sized screen, resting
at first against the wall, and were shown an ordinary straight-
waistcoat, which had been lent by Dr. Hawkins (who was
known to the party of three who were there, assembled), a pair
of handcuffs (which Mr. Addison had bought from a first-class
shop in Cornhill), a set of manacles, such as are used for con¬
victs, and a large-sized box with lock and key. The screen
was afterwards placed at one end of the room, and Mr. Selons
was requested to put the waistcoat on Mr. Addison, which he
did, by lacing it behind his back, sealing the knots, and then
bringing the long sleeves across his chest and under his arms,
tied them also at his back. Thus, to all appearance helpless
and perfectly secured, Mr. Addison walked behind the screen,
and in one minute he came forth with the waistcoat in his
hand, and the knots and seals undisturbed, as Mr. Selons had
left them.
The handcuffs were then fastened on his wrists, and the key
kept by Mr. Selons. Retiring, as before, behind the screen, he
presented them in an instant to Mr. Selons, still locked, and
in another instant he showed his wrists shackled by the same
pair of locked handcuffs.
Mr. Selons and his brother then fastened the same handcuffs
on him, as well as the iron fetters around his ankles, and,
tying him in a sack, led him behind the screen, from whence
he again emerged in one minute, with all the articles in his
hands just as they had been left secured by them. Finally,
he allowed himself to be. forced into the box, which was much
too small for his natural size, and which was then locked and
corded by them. In this instance he had stipulated that they
should leave the room, and return in two or three minutes,
which they did, and found him at the table drinking his wine,
the box being in the same state as they had left it.
The room was fully lighted throughout, and being asked
how he accounted for the marvellous facts they had wit¬
nessed, whether he attributed them to jugglery or some occult
force, he declined to answer ; but he emphatically said—
“ Upon his honour as a gentleman,” that the appliances he
used on that and every similar exhibition were bona fide, and
that they were not, as a conjuror’s would be, prepared for the
purpose in any way. And Mr. Addison repeated these state¬
ments in a letter he published in the Standard, March 21,
1865, in which he says—1 It was a real straight-jacket, real
handcuffs, a simple box, with no secret springs and no dupli¬
cate key ; the sack used was not a trick one, but fairly made
and sewn together,” &e. An eye-witness, who wrote in All
the Tear Bound, April 16, 1866, corroborates all these state¬
ments.
Upon these points, however, from their own observation,
Messrs. Selons were quite satisfied; but they told him it was
not fair to refuse to say whether it was one thing or the other,
since they did not ask him for his secret, and he was not, they
supposed, about to make it a profession.
But Messrs. Selons did not know, as 1 know, from a letter
Mr. Addison wrote to me at the time, that he seriously con¬
templated leaving his clerkship in the Stock Exchange, and
taking to the 'exhibition of his marvellous powers as a profes¬
sion. And I have a letter in my possession which he wrote to
the manager of the Hanover-square Rooms, asking for terms
on which he could engage them for “a similar exhibition to
the Davenports.”
In addition to the astounding facts which Messrs. Selons
witnessed, Mr. Addison seriously asserted that he had the
power of making himself invisible. He could, he said, allow
himself to be screwed up in a coffin, or be covered by an
extinguisher, and yet he could escape from it unseen by the
bystanders. He possessed, in fact, the same powers as the so-
called Indian juggler, whose recorded feats have been wit¬
nessed by thousands in the East, have perplexed and puzzled
all to find a solution, notwithstanding that they are so poor
that a few rupees is a welcome reward for an exhibition made
on the bare earth in open day, surrounded by many specta¬
tors. Yet no European has ever brought the Indian’s secret
to England. And why? Because he, like the Davenports
and other gifted mediums, possesses no juggler’s secret which
he can teach another to practise successfully.
About four years ago, I went to see the Maskelyne and Cooke
exhibition in a country town, and I saw at once, which re¬
peated visits tended to confirm, that here was the very power
for which I had been seeking ; and making their acquaintance,
I told them that I was a Spiritualist, and I recognised the
same power in them, whatever that might be, which the
Davenport’s possessed. But I thought they marred its effect
by attempting to ridicule Spiritualism, without at least offer¬
ing a reasonable explanation that the Davenports were
tricksters, and this they did not, as I know they cannot do.
THE SPIKITUALIST.
179
May 1, 1873.
From the conversation I had at that time with Mr. Maskelyne
and his manager, I came to the conclusion that they neither
of them knew anything of Spiritualism ; but they found they
had a power which they developed by practice, but which does
not belong to a juggler’s art; and so I believe at first it was
in the case of Mr. Addison.
Very much impressed with the exhibition, I sought the
managers of the Crystal Palace on my return home, and, from
my representation, they consented to have Messrs. Maskelyne
and Cooke to give them three private seances, with a view to a
business engagement at the Palace, which, however, did not
come off at that time. My idea was that the public would be
forced to accept, under the guise of legerdemain, the so-called
“ tricks ” of the Davenport’s, which, like these men’s “ tricks,”
no one ever found out, and why ? Because they, too, like the
Indians, are, to my mind, singularly gifted mediums. The
private performances took place, and created the usual sur¬
prise, though they were given in a limited space, not larger
than many drawing-rooms, and the spectators, for the
most part, were permitted the closest inspection of all
the arrangements. Mr. Alfred Wallace accompanied me, and
agreed with me in my view of the phenomena. I don’t know
whether he has had reason to change his views since, but
I have not, though I know that many Spiritualists differ from
me ; and one who ought to know has even assured me that he
can explain all the tricks—as tricks—which Messrs. Maskelyne
and Cook do; yet I am contented to risk whatever reputation
I may have (having recorded, for many years, all the principal
phenomena which were doubted by most Spiritualists, and are
now recognised as facts) upon the fact, that three or four of the-
principal feats accomplished by Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke
cannot be explained by any juggler, and are to be attributed to
the (possession of the same power or force which the Daven¬
ports, the Glasgow medium, the Indian juggler, and Mr. J. H.
Addison have, whatever that power or force may be.
If, sir, I should be wrong in my judgment, you will, no
doubt, since you are one of those who do not agree with me,
permit me sufficient space, if needful, to recant my error in
your journal, which I shall gladly do if any one will give a
reasonable explanation of the modus operands by which these
men succeed in puzzling the multitude, and secure to them¬
selves the exclusive right of maintaining a position not held
by any other conjurors. B. Coleman.
Upper Norwood, April 26th, 1873.
Mr. Coleman is such an old and faithful worker in
the cause of Spiritualism, that opinions expressed by
him always deserve respectful attention, so it is with
the more regret that we find ourselves to be totally at
variance with him on the subject of the performances
of Maskelyne and Cooke* That most of the tricks of
the latter are effected by the use of a movable mirror, as
published in these pages, we consider to be an estab¬
lished fact. The sides of the cabinet are covered with
diagonal lines, to prevent the fine lines of the edge of
the mirror from being seen when it is in the position
described in the Spiritualist of March 15th, and the
lamps are to illuminate the roof of the cabinet. Pro¬
fessor Pepper’s beautiful illusion of % The cherubs
floating in the air,” was produced in the same way; the
illuminated roof, in his case out of sight of the audience,
represented the moon and stars shining forth in the
midnight sky, and the mirror, at an angle of forty-five
degrees, caused the illuminated transparency to appear
as the background, before which the heads of four very
beautiful living children were floating in mid-air,
singing—
Abide with me, fast falls the eventide,
The darkness deepens, Lord with me abide.
The children sat under the looking-glass, with their
heads projecting through holes in it. Some wool was
disposed round their necks and the backs of their heads,
ostensibly to represent clouds, but in reality to hide the
edges of the holes in the glass, and to prevent portions
of the backs of their heads being reflected by the glass.
Mirrors are commonly used in this way to make a box
or cabinet with much in it, appear to be totally empty.
Moreover, since our last article on the subject
was printed, Mr. Gr. Nelson Strawbridge, entered Mr.
Maskelyne’s cabinet, with a bradawl, and expressed his
desire to bore a hole in the roof at W, Pig. 1, to which
Mr. Maskelyne said, “ I object.” Mr. Strawbridge found
that there was a large panel there, with a crack all round,
so as apparently to be not the true roof of the cabinet.
Dr. Sexton found the same, and told us that the expla¬
nation published in these pages, virtually, though not
in minute detail, accounted for the phenomena seen
during the performance. Mr. Pomeroy Tredwen has
come to the same conclusion, as will be seen by the
following letter :—
To the Editor of the “ Spiritualist."
Sir,—As the feats recently exhibited by Messrs. Maskelyne
and Cooke at the Crystal Palace and St. James’s Hall have
excited great interest and curiosity, and have been commented
upon in your paper of the 15th ult., I venture to address you
some remarks on what I observed on Friday the 18th inst.,
the occasion of their last performance at St. James’s Hall,
which, if you deem worthy of publication, may be confirmed
by the observations of some of your readers.
Certain Spiritualists have not hesitated to affirm positively
that Mr. Maskelyne must certainly be a medium to accomplish
such wonders. As I do not at all share this opinion, I will,
with your leave, record what I heard and saw. Messrs.
Maskelyne and Cooke, though asserting that all they perform
is due to their own skill alone; and respectfully declining to
accept for Mr. Maskelyne the' questionable honour of being a
medium, and though denouncing mediums as humbugs, yet
admit the possibility of obtaining spiritual manifestations,
and do not positively affirm that he is not a medium. I feel
sure that no one, whose “ wish was not father to the thought,”
would, for a moment, consider their exhibition as an exposb, or
explanation of Spiritualists’ manifestations, either a la Home
or a la Davenport Brothers.
I secured a seat in the centre of the stalls which afforded
me an excellent view of the performance. When the cabinet
was submitted to inspection, I, among others, examined its
sides, interior, and top. It stands about one foot off the
ground, on four legs. The great thickness of its sides, and
its interior being covered with carpet all over, are certainly
not at all “ d la Davenport.” To explain my theory of the
internal arrangements, I must refer to the annexed plan, Fig.
1, in which A E is the back of the cabinet, H K is a shelf
covered with carpet which slopes, to the back at an angle of
about twenty degrees ; along the outer edge of this shelf a
fringe K R, is tacked to conceal the inclination of the shelf,
and below it the space can be hidden by a slight red curtain
Y, drawn from side to side. In the roof at B a rather stout
bar runs from side to side, under which there is a spring roller
blind J (for what object I cannot discover), while at N, im¬
mediately behind and parallel to the bar, is a division in
the carpeting (which I pointed out to some standing by), and
this, considered with the slope in the shelf, gives the clue to
the trick. The roof from A to N must be in two thicknesses,
of which the lower one A B, hinged at A, falls into the posi¬
tion A K when desired, so as easily to conceal two men lying
on the shelf H K ; while having a mirror on its upper surface
180
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 1, 1873.
it reflects the carpeting on the lower side of the top thickness, as
though it were that at the back of the cabinet. From a hur¬
ried glance at the exterior of the roof, and the division in the
wood from side to side near P, I think it very possible that a
portion of it may fold down on A K, and permit an escape on
to the roof, unless this is visible to the occupants of any
balcony or gallery which may chance to be in the theatre
used. This mirror is certainly concealed where you indicated,
for Mr. Maskelyne, while administering heavy blows to the
back and sides of the cabinet, dealt mercifully with its roof.
I should have much liked permission to bore a hole through
the roof at W, and to chalk a horizontal line on the side from L
to M. Immediately within the folding doors at D, on the sides
and near the roof, are two very necessary lamps, which
throw the shadow of the bar at B as far as W. The shadow
W N, when reflected from A K, occupies the place of that cast
by the shelf against the rear of the cabinet, which receives
the glare of the footlights, and is marked G H. The mirror
being down, the- shaded carpet W N, made visible at G H,
receives thq reflected light of the two lamps and the rays of
the footlights, but when the mirror is up, the shaded carpet
/ G H receives the downward light from the hall, and the direct
rays of the lamps ; thus the shadow at G H seems ever the
same. Now as to the slope of the shelf. No one in the
audience could see the top of the shelf—that is, no one sat
above the line H I, for in that case he would find it appearing
and disappearing in turn, as the mirror was changed in its
position.
Mr. Maskelyne called particular attention to the box Fig. 2,
upon which he had expended the thought and labour of years.
I could not find any defect in the box, and only remarked
the great thickness of the sides as compared with the top.
Not having seen how the box is covered with canvas, but
only corded, and the knots sealed, I can only suggest how the
escape is effected. The “gorilla” being locked in the box,
Mr. Maskelyne corded it in his own way, leaving sufficient
end for a gentleman from the audience to secure the ends in
another direction, as you suggested. This done, it seemed to
me that he placed the wax and had it sealed nliere he pleased,
viz.—along the top of the trunk, and then locked it into the
cabinet. Presently, the back of the stage being meanwhile
watched by the scrutineer from the audience, the box is taken
out and found as before, but empty. The exact modus
operandi is difficult to explain, but I would suggest that the
egress of the prisoner is assisted by a second person concealed
in the cabinet when the box wais introduced, for the scruti¬
neer never entered and examined the interior; and further,
that one of these performers presently steps out as Will Con¬
stant, while the other remains inside when the curtain falls.
The escape from the box (Fig. 2) is most probably effected by
one of its sides, A B, the inner lining of. which, being in one
piece, either folds inwards on hinges at A, as centre and radius
A B, or else slides bodily into the positions D E and F G,
while the outer side removes in pieces so as to allow the pas¬
sage of the body between the cordage.
Claverton-street, S. W. E. Pomeroy Tredwen.
The use of the blind B, Pig. 1, may be to prevent
portions of the centre of the roof from being seen, either
by direct vision by persons seated at a low elevation, or
by reflection, from near K, by persons seated at a high
elevation in front of the cabinet. When the mirror is
down, there must be a ridge along the roof at 1ST, not
visible before. The blind, moreover, gives the power
of regulating the length of the shadow W N.
The man is too closely packed in
the box, Fig. 2, to allow the side
to fall in, in the direction B C. The
idea originally published in these
pages gives the more probable ex¬
planation, namely, A B D E, Fig. 4,
is the lid of the box, with hinges
between A and B, and the lock
midway between D and E. It is
usually corded as shown by the
dotted lines, Mr. Maskelyne first
innocently cording it from F down¬
ward, and the scrutineers next
cording it in hot haste in the di¬
rections N N, B, B, to keep the lid
down, as they think. The performers then place the
box in the cabinet themselves, with the end A D
uppermost; the scrutineers should insist upon that
end being turned downwards, to the great delight
of the performer inside.. The day we saw the per¬
formance, the mirror was up, and no confederate in the
cabinet, when the box was placed therein. But thecording
and the sealing of the knots in no way prevents the end
W W from swinging open, or the man from getting out
when the detents holding W W in its place are released.
The box is a good specimen of cabinet-maker’s work,
consequently, it is useless to try to open the lid W W,
either by rapping upon it or looking at it. The thing
is to release the detents, and this is done, very probably,
by the act either of shutting or locking the box. Scru¬
tineers, consequently, must begin their work by de¬
manding the key of the box, and if W W does not then
open, or come off bodily, with ease, they should lock
one of their number inside the box, to exert muscular
pressure against it from within, as Mr. Maskelyne’s
gorilla does under similar conditions..
Much has been said about Mr. Maskelyne cording,
sealing' locking, and canvassing himself inside the box
in a private drawing-room, and without the aid of a
confederate. Let the box be first corded, canvassed,
and sealed everywhere, except over the false upper end
A B, shown in Fig. 3, the cord then is passed over that
end at E F. When the lid K H is open, the length of
canvas shown by the dotted line N A E H probably
droops in the direction Y B, consequently, when the
performer gets inside and closes the lid, the piece of
canvas falls naturally into its place over the top end of
the box, which was the only part uncovered before
the performer went inside. The drooping end B would
then overlap the other portion of the canvas at W.
Most likely the end H B is not so long as shown in the
cut for the sake of clearness, but ends at Y. In per¬
forming this trick, there is always the danger of the
end A B being untidily covered with the canvas, as the
performer inside cannot finally smooth it out. Conse¬
quently, we asked Dr. Sexton, who has seen the trick
performed, whether the end A B was covered evenly ?
He replied—“ No. The canvas was lying on the top
in a most untidy manner.”
The following extract from the Norwood News shows
the position taken by Mr. Maskelyne in his platform
utterances relating to Spiritualism:—
Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke have continued their enter¬
tainment during the week in the presence of crowded
audiences. On Monday, Mr. Maskelyne alluded to Mr.
Jones’s letter, which we printed last Saturday. He said that
that gentleman, who had been treated with the utmost
courtesy during the preceding week, had thought fit to make
further statements respecting their performances, to the effect
that he had found out a part. In so saying, Mr. Jones had
stated what was not the fact. He did not know if he were in
the room, but, if so, he should be gratified by his making his
appearance on the stage, when every facility would be given
him for renewed investigation. (Cheers.) He did not know
why Mr. Jones felt aggrieved, but supposed it was because he
(Mr. Maskelyne) had stated that many so-called spiritual
manifestations were capable of being produced by mere
trickery. He did not deny but that many at present incom¬
prehensible things did take place, but all he wished to do was
to caution the public against attributing to spiritual agency
everything for which they could not account. (Cheers.) The
performance then proceeded, being agreeably diversified by
shouts for “ Jones” from the audience, and a large amount of
“chaff’’freely bestowed on various unfortunate individuals
belonging to the committee of investigation, who were wrongly
supposed to be the gentleman in question.
The following report of a burlesque of spiritual phe-
THE SPIRITUALIST.
181
May 1, 1873.
nomena was published in the Leeds Mercury of April
24th:—
Those who enjoy being puzzled are likely soon to find
ample entertainment in the Music Hall at the hands of Herr
Dobler. He does not begin his public performances there till
Monday night, but we have had an early opportunity of seeing
the wonders he can do, and they are certainly worth
describing. The preliminary display of his powers took place
during a private dark seance in one of the rooms at the
“ Queen Hotel,” where about twenty impartial gentlemen
(chiefly connected with the press) met by invitation of Mr.
Alexander on Tuesday afternoon. When he came before this
limited company, Herr Dobler explained that his object was
to perform the principal feats of pretended “ Spiritual me¬
diums,” without at all professing the aid of disembodied
spirits. In the course of this explanation he referred with
amusing frequency to some “ Very Rev. Dr. Ferguson” as
chief apostle of the supernatural pretensions formerly made on
the faith of similar achievements by the Davenport Brothers.
It will be remembered that these exhibitors of the ghostly
delusion visited Leeds some years ago, and nfet with de¬
cidedly rough treatment from a sceptical audience, whose
committee sought to impose rather searching tests. Ho fault
certainly on this score can be found with our present visitor,
for he appears to court close examination, and readily puts
himself under the most trying conditions. During the first
minute or two of darkness in the room, Herr Dobler tightly
bound himself to a chair with two long pieces of stout rope.
His hands were found tied behind his back, with the knot*—
an apparently secure one—between his wrists. While he was
so fastened, body and limbs, the lights were again put out, and
a series of what] are called “ manifestations ” at once took
place. An innocent-looking tambourine and bell, which had
before lain in peace on a little table, became quite disorderly
in their behaviour. The bell rang as it tumbled hither and
thither. At the same time the tambourine (upon which a few
drops of phosphoric oil had been rubbed, to make it luminous)
was both seen and heard to float about with an irregular
movement, sometimes over the heads of the bewildered com¬
pany. Upon light being restored the erratic articles lay on
different parts of the floor, where they had just fallen, and
Dobler was still sitting in composure, tied firmly to his chair.
As if to increase previous difficulties, the knot in the rope was
then stamped with a signet and some sealing wax, while one of
the gentlemen present sat near, with his feet upon those of the
performer and his hands upon the other’s knees. Again the
gas was turned off, and again the strange manifestations were
promptly repeated, ending in the restless tambourine being
found upon the head of the gentleman deputed to hold Dobler.
His testimony was that about a second after the light was ex¬
tinguished, he felt hands passing through his whiskers and
hair, but no muscular exertion was perceptible in the per¬
former’s feet or knees during the darkness. It was still more
remarkable that a doctor, who happened to be present and
felt Dobler’s pulse, testified that the pulsations were not ac¬
celerated, nor were the hands swollen or overheated, as might
have been expected in the circumstances. Strange as those
feats were, others yet more unaccountable followed. Another
very brief interval of darkness, and this time the performer,
although still bound, was discovered to have put on (with his
arms properly through the sleeves), a light topcoat, which one
of the gentlemen present had taken off the previous minute.
Darkness once more, and the coat was quickly thrown back to
its owner, without any change in Herr Dobler’s complicated
bonds. A like feat was performed with a lady’s muff, snatched
in the dark from the hand of one of the company, and a mo¬
ment or two afterwards found enclosing Dobler’s left arm, a
little above the seal, which still remained unbroken. The per¬
former invited explanations or theories, but none were offered.
Some might naturally think at first that there must have been
accomplices in the room, but the spectators were soon con¬
vinced that this was not the case. The only person, indeed,
at all open to any suspicion of confederacy was Mr. William
Alexander, proprietor of the entertainment, but he stood away
behind the company, not at all near Herr Dobler, and more
than once invited any of those present to hold him during the
manifestations. There was probably little doubt amongst the
party, that Dobler did contrive in each interval to disengage
his hands and arms from the ropes, but it is certain that no¬
body could even guess how this was done. We understand
that the dark seance above described will be given at each
public performance by Herr Dobler at the Music Hall during
his stay in Leeds.
Herr Dobler it seems began by “binding himself” to a
chair. “ What spiritual medium, who invites tying as a
test, is ever permitted to bind himself?” He is usually
bound with tape, not rope, by independent persons, and
the knots sealed with private signet rings.
The tricks of jugglers do no harm to Spiritualism;
they never shake the confidence of any Spiritualist,
and they advertise the movement. They injure only
the moral nature of those men who pass their lives in
bringing false charges of imposture from public plat¬
forms against innocent people.
Much more attention has already been given in these
pages to the various stage performances, than the
importance or educational usefulness of the subject
deserves, so if any correspondents have anything
further to say about the matter, they are requested to
briefly confine their attention to essential points only,
so as not to take up more than an inch or two of space.
SPIRIT FORMS, AND SUOGESTIONS AS TO THE
MANAGEMENT OF CIRCLES.
BY J. C. litrXMOOBB.
As I occupied so much space in the Spiritualist
about a month since, I must now endeavour to be
brief, and, with this object, I will not particularise the
days on which the phenomena I am about to record
took place (Miss Cook being the medium), but as far as
possible confine myself to what appears to me to be
either an increase of, or an addition to, the manifesta¬
tions which have already been published.
I must first observe that Katie, when appearing in
full form, is able to endure a much stronger light than,
heretofore. About a fortnight since, Katie asked for a
benzoline lamp, which she directed me to give her; it
had a small, but rather bright' flame. She held it
within a few inches of her face, so that all might see
distinctly. This was on the side of the cabinet the
furthest from me. Her hand trembled considerably, as
if she had some difficulty in holding it, and after a
short time she told -me to take it; if I had not done so,
I think it would have fallen. She then came out on
my side of the cabinet (I was directed to sit quite
close), again took the lamp, and oTfr faces not being
more than, if so much as, twelve inches apart, she held
the lamp between us, so that had there been the smallest
spot on her face, I must have seen it. She remained in
this position about a minute.
On two other occasions we, with Katie’s consent,
have tried the magnesium light, in order to see if it
would be possible to obtain a photograph. The first
day, and while appearing in full form, she endured the
light for about two seconds, and, of course, for that
time the whole room was brilliantly illuminated. At
a second trial, on another evening, she stood it twice,
and for three or four seconds each time.
Another new phase in the manifestations has taken
place, viz., if the light is extinguished, Katie walks out
into the room, touches every one, and sometimes ties
them with tape-in a most ludicrous manner. This she
has done on three or four occasions.
We have been steadily progressing ever since we
have resolutely closed the doors of the seance room
against all strangers, whether Spiritualists or not.
I had fully intended ,to conclude this article here, but
since writing the above I have recalled to mind a con¬
versation we had a little time since, which induces me
to express some opinions I have very long entertained
182
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 1, 1873.
as to the management of circles, and especially how to
act towards all, and more particularly sensitive me¬
diums. It is well known to all who have really given
any serious attention to the subject, that the adverse
influence of only one person will so act upon sensitive
mediums, as either to entirely stop all manifestations,
produce -unreliable communications, or what is worse
enable mischievous spirits to get possession of the
medium. I have seen cases of this sort. In one in¬
stance a very sensitive medium (who is in her ordinary
state the beau ideal of gentleness) has for a time acted
in the most savage manner towards herself and those
around her, and although I believe I have a tolerably
strong will,.and not the least fear in such cases, it has
taken me more than an hour before I could either re¬
store her to herself or get her under more genial in¬
fluence. This is one of the dangers attendant on
circles, hut under calm, fearless, and determined
management, no real harm will occur. Any one pre¬
sent who feels nervous or alarmed should quietly leave
the room, all who remain exercising their will to get
rid of the untoward influence. It is almost impossible
to give exact rules as to how to act, as each case may
require somewhat different management, but what I
have said above will, I think, apply to all.
There are one or two other points to which I wish
to call attention, and although they apply in great
measure to all mediums, are of particular importance
when the medium is in process of development. No
special phenomena should be asked for; all should be
left to take their natural course. It may possibly be
said, “ Then youfwill not get what you want.” Pos¬
sibly not, but as far as my experience goes, you are
much more likely to get it, if no pressure is put upon
the medium. To say to the medium, “ Now I want
you to do so and so, because that will strongly convince
and convert Mr. A, or Mrs. B, whose adherence would
be of great importance to the movement,” is about the
best mode I am aware of, by which to impede progress
and restrict phenomena to what has perhaps been
occurring for weeks together. I have been watching
this of late very attentively, and if I had not long since
been convinced on the point, the evidence has been
decisive. I need scarcely remind the readers of the
Spiritualist that absolute harmony is indispensable.
A mere thought adverse to the medium, without a word
or gesture indicating such thought, I have known to
upset a,•seance. I am quite aware that by publishing
these opinions, I may have subjected myself to much
derision, and perhaps scorn; this, however, is to me
quite unimportant as long as I can feel that I am
endeavouring to the best of my poor ability to pro¬
mulgate what I believe to be the truth. I have in the
support of other “ isms ” besides Spiritualism, gone
through rather a fiery ordeal, but I am not aware that
even a hair of my head has been singed. Some of our
friends think that as they are, and have long been,
Spiritualists, they are fit to be, and should be ad¬
mitted at all times to all circles; to this I must also
demur, as in many cases it is, if you wish to progress,
absolutely necessary to surround the medium with the
same influence at each seance,—a stranger, be he or she
the most devoted Spiritualist in the world, may be and
often is, detrimental to a circle. I do not state this as
an opinion, but as a fact, from ample experience.
There is much which I could add, but do not wish to
occupy more of your space in this number, as I am not
without hope that I may have to communicate, on the
15th of next month, some additional facts, which our
opponents will find a little difficult to digest.
16, Gloucester-square, Hyde-park, W.
April 26, 1873.
WHAT AM I ?*
(From the Morning Post.)
This work is intended as a popular introduction to
the science of psychology, and in the first volume the
author considers chiefly the mechanism of the human
body. Psychology deals with the powers which govern
the body, and physiology with the structure and func¬
tions of its various parts; Mr. Serjeant Cox, therefore,
begins on the somewhat beaten ground of physiology,
giving clear descriptions of the various parts of the
body and their modes of action. He describes the ma¬
chine, before dealing with the powers which govern the
machine. Of these powers he admits that very little is
known, and that it is greatly to the disgrace of the
scientific world that it can give so very little informa¬
tion about psychology. The learned author approaches
the subject of psychology in a strictly scientific manner,
for, except in the preface, he makes no allusion to the
theological aspect of the question. In the preface,
when speaking of the prevailing materialism of the age,
he says :—
The question can never be thought out between the
Divine and the Scientist, because they have no common
ground upon which to combat. The Scientists, unhappily,
for the most part dispute the authority which is the basis of
the theologian’s argument. It is consequently impossible
that the Scientists can be convinced and converted by theolo¬
gians. Materialism based on science can be confronted only
with its own weapons. He who would do battle with it suc¬
cessfully must wield arguments scientifically deduced from
facts scientifically ascertained. The Divine cannot do this,
for he may not abandon the high ground of authority, whose
part it is not to prove, but to declare.
Mr. Serjeant Cox states that he is not a man of
science, but a student of science “ who recognises scien¬
tific rules and methods of research as the ouly permis¬
sible form of inquiry into any region of nature.” On
these principles, then, he has issued this book, dealing
with the mechanism of the human body, to be followed
by a second volume dealing with the far more difficult
problems of the nature of the powers driving the
mechanism.
The chief point of novelty in Mr. Serjeant Cox’s
book is a new hypothesis of his own, that the human
body consists of two expanded germs, the one derived
from the father, and the other from the mother. Ma¬
terialists deny that life is other than a function of
a certain collocation of matter, and that, when condi¬
tions are favourable, protoplasm goes to work, produc¬
ing cells which increase by division, and finally form
the various organic substances. The author calls atten¬
tion to two other speculations, the one that the body is
derived from a germ which originally belonged to the
male, and the other that it sprung from a germ which
originally belonged to the female. He raises the ques¬
tion whether the human body does not consist of two
united expanded germs, the one derived from the
father and the other from the mother. He calls atten¬
tion to the dual nature of the physical aspect of the
human body throughout, and says:—
The human structure is not one whole, but two parts joined
together. One of the parts rarely if ever precisely resembles
* What Am I ? A Popular Introduction to the Science of Psychology
By Edward William Cox, Serjeant-at-Law. Yol. I. London: Long¬
mans and Co.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
183
May 1, 1873.
the other part, and often there is a marked unlikeness.
Seldom are both sides of the face alike, as a very slight obser¬
vation of the reader’s friends will assure him. One side of
the body rarely if ever resembles in shape the other side of it;
one side is usually weaker than the other, or more liable to
injury, or habitually less healthy. The external organs are
all obviously duplex. We have two arms, legs, eyes, ears,
nostrils. We have also two brains, and duplicate ganglia.
Throughout the structure there is the manifest junction of
two distinct formations, and the point of junction is for the
most part distinctly visible. . . . This suggestion also ex¬
plains another hitherto inexplicable problem — why the
nerve cords are made to cross from the nerve centres on one
side of the body to the other side of the body, instead of each
one occupying, vivifying, influencing, and directing that half
of the body to which it belongs. That such is the fact is
proved by this, that an injury to the right nerve centre para¬
lyses the left side of the body, and vice versa. If the whole
body be the development of a single germ, no useful purpose
appears to be served by this exchange of the nerve system.
But, if my suggestion be true, that the human being is con¬
structed of two united germs, the object and uses of this
interchange of the nerves between the two allied germs
becomes at once apparent. It is thus that their union is
accomplished ; it is thus that the characteristics of each germ
are imparted to its partner.
Such, is the hypothesis, which may or may not here¬
after develop into a true theory. The learned serjeant
pushes the idea still further, to show why it is that some
children more strongly resemble the mother and others
the father, in bodily or mental characteristics. He
suggests that when the one germ has more vitality than
the other, the characteristics of that germ will predomi¬
nate in the child, which then will have more affinity to
one of the parents than to the other. He argues that
if this speculation of his should prove to he true, it
would throw a flood of light upon difficult questions of
race, upon the transmission of bodily and mental cha¬
racteristics, and upon the transmission of genius and
hereditary features. The hypothesis, he argues, tends
to strengthen Darwin’s theory of the origin of species
by the survival of the fittest.
Questions of the above nature ought to be brought
before the Anthropological Institute, to be fully argued
out by different persons who have given more or less
attention to such subjects. Recently the subject of
hereditary characteristics was brought under the notice
of the Institute by Mr. George Harris, P.S.A., and the
chief result of the discussion was to show how very
little is at present known on the subject.
After describing the nature and construction of the
body, and mooting the speculation about the “ double
germ,” the author speaks of the intellectual faculties,
and afterwards, by a logical process of reasoning,
attempts to prove that within the body of man there
is a spirit filling it in every part. He recognises the
reality of the phenomena of clairvoyance and somnam¬
bulism, and cites them as evidence of the existence of
spiritual powers made visible even here on earth, in
abnormal instances of the partial separation of the soul
from the body. He argues that if some clear, tangible
scientific knowledge of the reality of a soul within man,
and of its powers, can be obtained, what a blessing
such knowledge must be to humanity, and what a
deadly blow it must prove to cold, unhappy, blank
materialism. In speculating on the probable difference
between matter and spirit—for he admits he is merely
speculating—he calls attention to the theory that the
external world may but be the result of mental condi¬
tions, and that by a mere change in our sensations
other objects may come into view, and be as real and
material as any seen in the present stage of existence.
In several places throughout the book he justly com¬
plains of the neglect of duty on the part of the scientific
world in not having given practical attention to the
great subject of psychology, but he may perhaps be
interested with the information that the Anthropological
Institute has appointed a committee, under the presidency
of Mr. Francis Galton, F.ft.S., “to promote psychological
research.” In the preface to his book,Mr. Serjeant Cox
calls attention to the necessity for the formation of a
psychological society, and there is no doubt thatif one were
to‘be incorporated it would quickly gain a large number
of influential members. The field of action is wide and
interesting enough to warrant the formation of a new
society.
There is not a little in the book of what may be
termed M unorthodox science,” but the work is all the
more valuable on that account, since intelligent thinkers
can sometimes see more clearly than the actual workers,
just as the spectators of a game at chess sometimes see
more than the players. Men of science often work too
rigidly in narrow mental grooves, and a little healthy
criticism from intelligent unfettered observers is some¬
times calculated to do them good. Mr. Serjeant Cox’s
book is full of thought and well worth reading.
ffiebteto.
Where are the Dead? or, Spiritualism Explained. By
Fkitz. London: Simpkin, Marshall, and Co. Man¬
chester : Ireland and Co. 1873.
This little book summarises the main facts of
Spiritualism in a popular form. It is made up in a
great measure of judicious extracts from periodicals and
standard works connected with the movement; and
there is much plain common sense in the remarks of
the author. The more especial use of the work is for
presentation to inquirers; its price is moderate, and it
gives a clear bird’s-eye view of the leading features of
modern Spiritualism, without dealing much with the
many difficult philosophical problems presented to the
minds of those who have had extensive experience in
connection with the subject.
The author seems to have been partially misled by
the unreliable articles in the Spiritual Magazine, about
the spurious spirit photographs once produced at Hollo¬
way. On page 84 he quotes a list from that serial of
some dozens of sitters who “recognise” the said por¬
traits. The list is altogether unreliable, and probably
got up from fragments of conversations and newspaper
on dits. If Fritz will examine each of the said pic¬
tures, he will see for himself that the great majority of
them do not contain any recognisable spirit face what¬
ever ; on writing to the different persons he will
discover that the names of many were printed
without their authority; also that some of them
have no belief whatever in the genuineness of their
pictures. Let Fritz see each of the pictures, and the
sitters, he will then find that the list is altogether unre¬
liable, and contains very few good cases indeed. The
last number of the Spiritual Magazine magnifies the
list to a hundred. How is it, then, that when
“Fritz” recently advertised extensively for one indis¬
putably recognisable picture only, he met with not a
single response ? Spurious pictures were mixed up
with the real ones once taken on the premises; much
doctoring and trickery took place in the printing opera¬
tions, and many of the prints sold to the public were
not true copies of any negative taken in any camera.
184
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 1, 1873.
The investigators have some of the pictures in their
hands to prove this, when necessary; also to prove who
some of the persons are who took part in the imposture.
The editor of the Spiritual Magazine has written
articles by the ream denying what we have just stated,
but, as he is totally ignorant of photography, and, to
this day, has never taken the trouble to go and see the
spurious pictures, or to send a photographer to do so
for him, his articles about the said pictures are unreli¬
able, and founded upon incompetence to deal with the
subject. We hope never to have to refer to this subject
again, and it is a most curious example of numbers of
people being misled by the errors of a guide, although
undeniable proofs of those errors have all along been
extant. The repentant photographer soon retraced this
false step, by honestly publishing that he would not
guarantee his pictures to be genuine, and from this
position he has never since swerved; an editor, who
knew nothing of photography, and had never seen
many of the dummy pictures, then came forward and
voluntarily guaranteed them to be genuine.
THE ANTHROPOLOGICAL INSTITUTE.
On Tuesday, last week, at the ordinary fortnightly meeting
of the Anthropological Institute, 4, St. Martin’s-place,
Trafalgar-square, London,' Professor George Busk, F.R.S.,
presided. Among the members present were Colonel A. Lane
Fox, V.P.S.A., Mr. Francis Galtou, F.R.S., Dr. King, Mr. A.
L. Lewis, Sir Duncan Gibb, Bart., Mr. E. Charlesworth,
F.S.A., and Mr. E. B. Holt, M.R.S.L.
hemoious beliefs oe THE SANTETJX INDIANS.
Mr. E. W. Brabrook, F.S.A., read the following paper upon
“ The Religious Beliefs of Ojibois or Santeux Indians resident
in Manitoba and at Lake Winnepeg,” by Mr. A. P. Reid,
M. D., L.R.C.S., Edinburgh, &c., <fcc., Professor of Practice of
Medicine, Dalhousie College and University, Halifax, Nova
Scotia, Canada :—
“ Gentlemen,—At the request of my friend Sir Duncan
Gibb to send a communication on Indian customs, I thought
the subject I have chosen would be more appropriate than
details of their daily life, which are for the most part very
similar in all tribes, and have been again and again described
by travellers. Their religious opinions, on the other hand,
have been much less referred to.
- “I spent the greater part of the years from 1860 to 1864,
amongst,ten tribes, stretching from Manitoba* to Vancouver,
on the Pacific, but in ordinary intercourse it) is very difficult
to find out their ideas of religion, they being reluctant to
talk much on this subject to strangers. I lived among the
Santeux (resident at Lake Winnepeg) eight months, and
during that time picked up the materiel of the following
description.
“ The Santeux originally belonged to the Lake Superior
country, but the old North-West Fur Company (prior to the
Hudson’s Bay Company) induced many to emigrate to Lake
Winnepeg, as they Were a more active race, and better hunters
than the Swampee tribe, who originally occupied that dis¬
trict, and who have, to a great extent, been displaced by the
new comers. The chief tribes in Manitoba and on the
British Prairie are the Assiniboines and Crees, who rarely own
a canoe, and live on the prairie. The Santeux, or Ojibois,
and Swampee rarely own a horse, confining themselves nearly
altogether to the fishing and hunting on the lakes in their
immediate vicinity.
“ On first going to live amongst them it appeared to me
strange that the Indians, especially the younger men, were
rarely called by their Indian names, and on asking their name
they said call me ‘ Niche,’ or ‘ Nich-e-wah,’ (Indian word
for brother or friend), or ‘bear,’ or ‘John,’ or ‘ Tom,’and
such like, and it was very difficult to get any other apellation
from them. In time 1 found that there were two reasons for
this. First: Many were averse to be known to the whites by
their appropriate names. Second : That they had no name,
which I will now explain.
“ It is held that the name is in some way prophetic, either
* Pronounced Man-e-tau-bah (the last a is pronounced very long, the o
short.)
of the man’s station in this life, or his future life, and was
not assumed until this condition became known, which took
place at manhood after the following ceremony had, to some
extent, lifted the veil which divides the known from the un¬
known.
VISIONS PRODUCED BY FASTING.
“ Each young man, at a chosen time, spent a week in feast¬
ing—gorging himself with all he could swallow. He then
picked out some quiet place where he would be neither
observed nor disturbed, to sleep—or, as the Indians say, to
dream. During this period they neither eat nor drink, for
doing so would render their efforts vain.
“ The sleep lasts from three to seven days, owing to the
endurance of the subject; and, during this time, the Great
Spirit comes to the Indian in the form of a dream, and thus
makes known to him that portion of his future which is to
be vouchsafed. The longer the man can abstain, the more
pleased is the Great Spirit, who does not visit him until his
fortitude is about giving way, when he sinks into the dream,
and in spirit sees his future going on from this life, even to
that after death.
“ The greatest number can only fast three or four days, and
they cannot get a glimpse of what is in store for them in the
spirit-world; but, now and then, a man fasts for seven or
eight days, and the Great Spirit, as a reward for his endurance,
may show him a high station in the land of the hereafter.
“ The Indian goes back to his tribe after the dream (looking
much the worse for his abstinence), relates to them what the
Great Spirit told him, and assumes a name explanatory of this
destiny.
“ An old fellow I was well acquainted with rejoiced in
the cognomen of ‘ Co-se-se-kan-eh-kway-kaw-po,’ signifying,
‘ The man who, standing up, his head reaches the heaven or
sky.’ He had fasted and slept eight days, at which the
Great Spirit was much pleased, and made known to him that
though he should not occupy any position in this world, or be
much looked up to, yet, after death, he should make him the
ruler-in-chief—accountable to himself alone—of the tract of
country bounded by Lake Winnepeg on the east and the lakes
Manitoba and Winnepegoos on the west (about 200 miles long
by from 25 to 58 wide). The old fellow firmly believed in
this destiny, and bore all the ills of life without complaining.
His opinions were but little respected,—in fact he was both
lazy and a drunkard ; but what need had he for position in
this world when such a brilliant future awaited him ?
PHYSICAL MEDIUMSHIP OF CAUGH-SKE-KAW-BUNK.
“ Another was called ‘ Caugh-ske-kaw-bunk,’ signifying
‘ The rays of light before the sun appears on the horizon.’
The Good Spirit informed him that he was to be a leader, a
guide to his tribe, and was to give them information, that,
like the first rays of light, would be very circumscribed in
quantity, but would gradually increase and spread with efful¬
gence over all the tribes in coming time. He was to the
Great Spirit as twilight to daylight,—in fact, a ‘ medicine
man.’ He had fasted a long period ; I did not find out how
long. He was extremely modest, and said but little of what
he could do ; but from the half-breeds I learnt that he had
accomplished a greater feat than the Davenport brothers of a
few years ago, though similar in kind. He might be tied up
with cords in any way, and then rolled up in a thirty-fathom
net, placed in the medicine-tent alone, and closely concealed.
In a short time, cords, net, and all, would be thrown out
without a knot untied, and he would appear in a state of pro¬
fuse perspiration. During the time he was in the tent it was
surrounded by the Indians at a little distance, who kept up a
great tumult, beating sticks, kettles, anything to make a noise,
for, by that means, they induced the spirits to come to the
aid of the medicine man; others say, to keep the evil spirits .
off while the good spirits got him disentangled. This is a
feat that, on the testimony of the half-breeds, several of their
medicine men have performed; but it is never done when
strangers to their tribe are present, unless once, long ago, that,
as report says, a famous magician performed the feat at the
urgent request of some of the Hudson’s Bay Company’s
Magnates, and on being very closely pressed as to an explana¬
tion of how he succeeded, at last said, that, * by supernatural
aid, he changed himself into a snake, and, of course, crawled
out without having to undo the knots.’ This being done, he
changed himself back again to a man, but it took a great
effort, which was why he was in such a profuse perspiration.
Comment on this is unnecessary.
“ I found old Caugh-ske-kaw-bunk a very decent and reliable
man, and we were on such good terms, that on learning that
May 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
185
I had no relative in that territory, he offered to be my foster-
father. On speaking in commendation of him to one who
had been long acquainted with him, and with whom he was
friendly, I was told he was a great old rascal, and that he had
only been deceiving me in trying to get what he could out of
me. It is right, however, to speak of a man as you find him,
and I found the old man reliable, more so than any other I
knew.
“ Since the Indians have been mixing with the whites, many
of the younger ones are either leaving off the customs of their
forefathers, or practice them in secret, which latter I believe
to be very common. They are very sensitive to ridicule, and
knowing that the whites and half-breeds, being Christian, are
unbelievers, they are extremely diffident to converse about or,
in their presence,rperform any religious ceremony.
THE SPIBIT-WOBLD OE THE OJIBOIS INDIANS.
“ As to the belief in a hereafter, I found their opinions to
be very decided. Their spirit-land is an exact counterpart of
the present, but is not visible unless to the spirit eye. Every¬
thing, trees, animals, birds, guns, blankets, canoes, &c., &c.,
as well as mankind, that have been, or may be, in existence
on terra firma, have or will have the spirit-form in futuro.
A man appears ; at first he is small, and gradually attains
maturity; he dies and decays, but his spirit-form goes to the
spirit-land. By parity of reasoning, a tree, an animal, any
living thing going through the same circle of events, has a
similar futurity. A gun, a blanket, a canoe, in course of time
will rot away and disappear from the visible earth, as much
so as a man ; in fact, it dies, which accomplished, it appears
in the invisib!6 world, similar in every way to what it was
previously, but in the spirit-form and indestructible ; in fact,
to be owned and used in the spirit-world by the spirit Indian
in precisely the same way and for the same purpose as when
in this world. Hence the reason why the dead man’s imple¬
ments of the chase are buried with him; it is with some
tribes customary to burn the deceased’s personal property at
his burial, so that he may have the sooner use of them. Others
prefer allowing them to decay naturally, as it is supposed they
are not immediately wanted after death, nature having all
things wisely arranged.
“ The world is to the Indian an imperium in imperio, the
spirit-world coexistent with, both in time and place, the pre¬
sent world. Lakes, rivers, and mountains are not born, do
not die, do not decay, hence the spirit and the mortal look on
the same earth, enjoy the same, and live on the same lakes
and mountains. The spirits are always present with us, but
we cannot perceive them.
“ When a man dies he journeys for a certain time, thirty to
sixty, or more days (ideas on this subject being divided), before
arriving at the confines of the Happy Bunting Ground.
“ Here he finds a deep river that must be crossed; he
plunges in. If he had been a good man in this world, he finds
no difficulty in making the traverse ; but if wicked, he comes
out on the same side as he went in, and it matters not how
often he tries, he always comes out on this wrong side.”
“ For the period of time before he reaches the river, he
must depend for sustenance on the friends he has left in this
world, and they, every time they eat, for a number of weeks
after his death, throw a portion into the fire, where, being
consumed, its spirit form goes to nourish the dead man on his
journey. If he have no friends, then his pilgrimage is harass¬
ing, and he suffers starvation for the time, though he cannot
die. He, in fact, passes through the * hell,’ or place of punish¬
ment, before the abode of bliss is reached.
“I have frequently seen Indians, always, before eating a
piece of food, throw a morsel into the fire, and so strong is
this belief that I have seen the first one of the old men, before
alluded to, much as he liked the fire water or whiskey, and
greedy as he was for every drop he could get, throw the por¬
tion first poured out into the fire, and, as he watched it blaze
and wafted away, he was reconciled by the thought that
his departed friend was the first to partake of the delicacy.
So it is with meat, or bread, or tea, but a very small piece is
so disposed of, for the spirit does not require much to support
him. Some of the tribes that live on the prairies are in the
habit of killing the favourite horse, and burying it near the
Indian, so that the spirit may be mounted at the commence¬
ment of his journey.
“ A story is related by M'Lean in his book ‘ Twenty-five
years in the Hudson’s Bay Company’s Service,’ that the
master of one of the posts in British Columbia was a very
great friend of the old chief in that locality, and they spent
much time in each other’s society.
“ The old chief died, and on the first opportunity, the chief’s
son killed the master of the fort, with the laudable intention
of providing his father in the spirit world with his old and
valued friend, to solace him in his journey, and prevent any
break in their intimacy.
“ It may be well for many of us that the Christian religion
is so much less explicit in its teachings of the future state.”
THE HEAVEN AND HELL OE THE OJIBOIS.
“ The Indians believe in many good and evil spirits, but
there is one ‘ great spirit,’ the supreme chief, that governs and
orders the Universe, who is omniscient, omnipresent, and the
author of all gpod, with many subordinates who govern dis¬
tricts under him.
“A chief in this world, if he be a good and brave man, has
a preferred chance for honours in the ethereal kingdom, and
over his own nation. As to the evil spirits I never heard that
anyone is supposed to have predominating power. The
Heaven or Happy Hunting Ground is a country having neither
heat nor cold, neither hunger nor thirst, nor pain, nor quarrell¬
ing, nor stealing, nor war, nor scarcity of game of any kind.
“ The spirit Indian, with spirit gun, or spirit bow and ar¬
rows, flies like the wind in his chase after the spirit game,
through the spirit forest, shoots the spirit moose, which falls
over as if killed, and then the Indian, taking what he wants
of him (the choice piece) goes off to the attack of something
else.
“The spirit moose that was shot, as soon as the Indian
disappears, jumps up and is off again the same as if nothing
had happened, to again reward some other spirit Indian with
his needed recreation and pleasure ; hence there can never be
any scarcity of game and the more so since all the moose
killed in this world take on the spirit form.
“ These Indians have a curious superstition regarding the
bear. They will not permit a dog to eat any part of its flesh,
or touch the bones, and all the waste portions of this animal
are thrown into the fire. On enquiry I could not elicit any¬
thing more than that if its flesh be used in an unhallowed
manner, the subsequent chase of this animal will be unlucky.
“ In addition to the sport of the chase the Great Spirit has
many ways of recompensing the brave and good Indians, when
they are all assembled in harmonious council, presided over by
the ruler of all things.
“ Their Hell, or place of future punishment, is exactly the
reverse of the happy abode, there is no game, no pleasure, ex¬
cessive heat and cold, war, fighting, and above all, a continual
starvation by both hunger and thirst not to be avoided, never
to be appeased even by a prospect of death.
“ In addition to this there is a species of refined torture.
The bad spirits can congregate along the bank of the river,
which separates them from the abode of the happy, and see
the good spirits enjoying themselves in every conceivable way,
with a bright sun shining, while they are in the dark and
frozen with cold, the narrow river alone being the barrier, so
that all they have to do is to swim over ; but let them attempt
it ever so often, and they always come out on the side of
misery, more chilled and wet than before making the effort,
while seeing numerous new comers jump in and land safely on
the other side.
“ To give the good Indian a sharper relish for the bliss in
store for him, he has to pass the days before referred to
in journeying through this country for a period after death,
which is supposed to be shorter or longer as he has been more
or-less deserving. When he arrives at the river, he sees its
shore crowded with the unhappy spirits vainly attempting its
traverse, he makes his attempt, succeeds, and looking back,
must be overjoyed by his good fortune. He is immediately
surrounded by his departed friends, who welcome him to the
happy hunting grounds, and convoy him in honour and
triumph to a council with the Great Spirit.
- “ He has now arrived in a new land, with new customs, and
it takes him some time to get used to it. His implements of
the chase may not have yet arrived, and he must depend on
the bounty of his friends until such time as his own effects
come to hand, or he becomes in accord with his surroundings.
“If in the mortal world he had injured arty one. in the
spirit world, the aggrieved party can command justice, and
the new comer may thus be inconvenienced, but there is no
punishment for any crime committed outside of his own
tribe.
“ When an Indian dies, his canoe, gun, blanket, and any
other thing considered useful, are deposited at his grave, and
very often, if his own gun or blanket be inferior or absent, a
i friend will make up the deficiency. A son will often buy a
186
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 1, 1873.
new gun or blanket, and leave it or them at his father’s
grave, with food as well, so that his parent shall want for
nothing in the new land.
“ The things at a grave, valuable or not, may remain
exposed until decayed, for a theft of this kind was unknown.
I was at first suprised that these things remained unmolested,
for they are not watched, and the Indians are well aware that
there are amongst them those that are not good, but, say they,
no matter how bad an Indian may be, or how much inclined
to steal, these will be left untouched, for they are sacred to a
spirit in the spirit land. Because the thief must die, and
even if he succeeded in crossing the river, he was met by the
injured spirit in the new land, and incommoded in any way
that spirit desired, for it could then get perfect satisfaction
out of him.
“ Such is a brief outline of the ideas picked up among the
tribe referred to that I remained longest with.
“ I had often been at a loss to understand why the Christian
religion was so slowly adopted by them, and so soon aban¬
doned after adoption, for I knew lots of Indians, Christian
while in'the settlement, that were Pagan as heretofore after they
returned to their hunting grounds and carried out all their old
rites. But on better acquaintance, I could perceive that the
Christian religion to such minds did not hold out as clearly
perceived advantages as the old one.
“ The Christian heaven is, a mythical abode of happiness.
The happy hunting ground, a delightful home, that the
dullest intellect could perceive and would try to attain. It
pointed out real rather than imaginary bliss. Their hell is a
piece of perfection as a hell to the Indian mind and
experience.
“ Their ideas of medicine, or the cure of the sick, are
mixed up with their religious belief in spirits, and I never
saw or heard tell of any system in their treatment, other than
some rather rude means to exorcise the spirit. Their use of
herbs is limited, and their surgical skill is very simple. A
charm is one of their potent remedies.”
THE DISCUSSION-.
Sir Duncan Gibb said that he induced Dr. Beid to write the
paper which had just been read, and which contained such
interesting facts. His (Sir D. Gibb’s) own acquaintance with
Indians in Canada did not extend so ,far north, but chiefly to
those living in the district around Quebec and Montreal, and
all the Indians about there were supposed to be Christians.
He mixed much with them, and found that they seemed to
have no religious belief of any kind but that which had been
taught them in Eoman Catholic churches. Dr. Eeid’s state¬
ments might safely be relied upon as accurate, and the paper
was a valuable contribution to the Institute.
Dr. King said, that the Indians near Montreal could not be
taken as a type of the American races, and it was necessary
to go further north. He was disappointed in the paper, and
thought that there was no originality in it. He had lived
among the races in question for years and studied them
minutely, and a man who only went among them for a few
days, could not get much accurate knowledge of their thoughts;
to do this, residence with them for a year at least was neces¬
sary. He had lived with them for three years, yet could not
get at their religious ideas ; but the oldest chiefs of their two
greatest tribes had told him that they never went to bed with¬
out praying to their God.
Sir Duncan Gibb explained that his knowledge of the
Indians of Lower Canada was not casual; he had lived among
them for twenty-five years. Dr. Keid, also, had stated in the
paper that he had been for four years among the tribe of
Indians living on Lake Winnepeg.
Mr. E. W. Charlesworth said that much in the paper agreed
with Swedenborg’s record of his experiences in the spirit-
world, and his statements about the condition of bad spirits,
corresponded with the ideas of the Indians. Swedenborg
stated that the bad spirits could see the good ones, and that
much of their misery was caused by their inability to join the
latter. He compared the next world to a great man, and said
that the lower spirits were in the lower parts of the body ; he
saw these evil beings trying to get into the upper regions, but
half-way up they met with a band of a kind of spiritual
policemen, who pitched them headlong down again. There
was much in Swedenborg’s writings resembling the belief of
the Indians.
The President said that he thought there was very little
original matter in the paper, as the “ happy hunting grounds ”
of the Indians had often been heard of before. He thought
it was useful ^to know that the superstitious notions of the
Indians had come down to the present day, and were to be
found in civilised countries. The mental ideas of a large
number of people in America and England seemed to agree
with those of the Indians as to the nature of the spirit world,
for the germ of all the modem Spiritualism of the day was
entirely related to the notions of the American Indians: The
survival of such absurd beliefs tended to prove that the white
race would degenerate into that of the Eed Indian again. It
was one of those absurd forms of belief which spiritualised
things in daily use, and made people suppose that tables and
chairs could be used by the Divine Being wherewith to com¬
municate His ideas to the human race.
Mr. Brabrook then read a paper by Mr. John Whitfield, on
“ Eock Inscriptions in Brazil.” There was no discussion.
Mr. Brabrook next read a paper by the Eev. J. 0. Atkinson,
on “ The Danish Aspect of the Nomenclature of Cleveland.”
Colonel A. Lane Fox and the President ,took part in the dis¬
cussion.
Mr. Brabrook then read a paper by Mr. James Hutchings,
on “ The Consecration of the Serpent as an Emblem, but not
an Object of Worship among the intelligent Druids.”
The President said that the contents of the paper were mere
assumptions, that nothing at all is known about the Druids,
and that the Institute should not encourage such speculations
as those in the paper, founded upon no scientific basis.
The proceedings then closed.
SPIRITUALISM IN LIYERPO.OL.
A review of the progress of Spiritualism in Liverpool
during the past few years may be of interest, so I may
state that on the 26th of April, 1866, fifteen gentlemen
held a meeting at the Co-operative Stores, Camden-
street, to take into consideration the desirability of
forming a society having for its object the study of
psychology, particularly the investigation of the facts
and teachings embodied in the term “ Spiritualism.”
A committee was formed, Mr. James Wason being
elected president; Mr. Andrew Leighton, vice-presi¬
dent ; Mr. Richard Bewley, secretary; and Mr. George
Wilson, treasurer. The meetings were held every alter¬
nate week, for a considerable time, in the above-named
place, when Mr, Wason took the Gymnasium in Lord-
street, at his own expense, and placed it at the service
of the society, which afterwards met there for some
time. The first report was published in April, 1867.
A fresh committee had been appointed during the pre¬
ceding year (1866); manifestations of a very satisfactory
character had taken place; and Mr. Fegan-Egerton had
been developed as a very good trance medium. A library
was formed, and several presents of hooks were made
to the society, Mr. Benjamin Coleman, Mr. J. Wason
and Mr. Wilson being amongst the donors.
In April, 1867, Mr. S. Guppy was introduced to the
society by Mr. Wason ; he gave an account of some of
his experiences, and instructed members how to act to
to get manifestations. In the same month, Mr. D. D.
Home, the celebrated medium, visited Liverpool, when
the members of the society inaugurated a soiree in
honour of his visit to Liverpool. Mr. Home very satis¬
factorily answered many questions put to him at the
soiree upon the subject of Spiritualism.
The members, some little time afterwards, were
separated, and, in consequence, the usual meetings
were discontinued, and for three years there was no
properly organised body of Spiritualists in Liverpool.
However, in December, 1870, an attempt was again
made by some of the former members to reconstitute
the society, or organise a new one, and several persons
attended a meeting at Mr. Wall’s Temperance Hotel,
1, Islington Flags. It was there agreed to organise a
new society upon the basis of the old one, and at a
subsequent meeting, held on Wednesday, 4:th January,
1871, in the same place, the following office-bearers
were, with a committee of management, elected to act
Mat 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
187
during the ensuing year, viz.:—Mr. George Glover,
president; Mr. William Wall, vice-president; Mr.
George Wilson, treasurer; and Mr. Ambrose Fegan-
Egerton, secretary. The members met weekly, and
with their well-developed medium, Mr. Eegan-Egerton,
they often received good and exalted spiritual commu¬
nications through him; these spirits were of different
nationalities, some English, some French, some Spanish,
and some Scotch; they all spoke in their native tongue
or dialect. The members gradually increased in number
and extended the influence of the society; week by
week new recruits were added, hut no very great effort
was made to bring in the public at large.
In the autumn of 1871, the Rev. John Jones, a
Congregational minister, preached and published a
sermon against Spiritualism, which was the means of
arresting much public attention. Mr. Fegan-Egerton
(under the signature of “ Yindex”) wrote and published
a reply to this sermon; he successfully refuted the rev.
gentleman’s arguments, and beat him with his own
weapons. The society followed this up by distributing
a large quantity of tracts; these were the means of
stimulating inquiry, and, in consequence, many circles
were formed in the town.
In the same year, on the 9th of May, Mrs. Hardinge,
under the society’s auspices, lectured in Hope Hall to a
very large and intelligent audience, and this was the
means of raising the standard of Spiritualism in the
estimation of the outside public. She subsequently
delivered several other lectures in the same hall. Mr.
James Burns delivered three lectures, also under the
auspices of the society, in the Wellington Hall, Camden-
street, which were very convincing to those who were
investigating the subject.
Mr. J. J. Morse, trance-medium, has been engaged
principally for the Sunday services. These services
prove to be the means of drawing together a greater
number of people, and of giving the public a greater
opportunity for investigating Spiritualism, than any
other means which had previously been employed by
the society. The services partake more of a religious
than a secular character.
The physical phase of Spiritualism has also been
cultivated; strange and convincing phenomena have
been witnessed through the mediumship of Mr. Fegan-
Egerton, and been the means of convincing many.
Every week brings higher and more satisfactory results.
During the last few months the society has in¬
creased rapidly in numbers ; indeed to such an extent
as was never before experienced. Circles are held every
week, and new circles are being constantly formed in
various parts of Liverpool. Several new mediums have
been developed; amongst others, Mr. Joseph Shepherd,
and his grand-daughter, Miss Shepherd. Mrs. La¬
ment is developing into a good healing medium. The
members of the society generally work harmoniously
together; the governing body is at present composed
of very intelligent men, good and useful work being
the result. John Chapman', Honorary Secretary.
Spikittjalism in Biemingham.—A new society in con¬
nection with Spiritualism has just been formed, under the title
of the Birmingham Psychological Association. Mr. T. F.
Proctor is the chairman ; Mr. Aaron Franklin the vice-chair¬
man ; Mr. J. Sunderland, treasurer; Mr. E. Yalter and Mr.
Taylor, auditors. The secretary is Mr. F. W. Spiller, of 9,
Coombe-place, Sherbourne-road, Birmingham. The associa¬
tion has divided itself into sections for the study of the
phenomena, and already results have been obtained at the
teances.
Spieitualism in Hexham.—In the course of a well-
written article the Hexliam Herald of April 5th says :
‘ ‘ Although Hexham cannot be said to luxuriate in the variety
and multiplicity of its clubs—although it has no fat, lean,
humdrum, mum, beefsteak, or October clubs, yet, from what
we have ourselves observed since last issue, we fear it will
soon attain the notorious distinction of a Spiritualistic Club.
However extravagant this prospect may appear to the in¬
credulous, we beg to assure our readers that, although they
have not yet formally constituted themselves a body politic
with rules and regulations for their spiritualistic cogitations ;
yet several ladies and gentlemen of this town, impressed with
the thought that there is something real either in Spiritualism
or in the psychic force and unconscious cerebration of Cox
and Carpenter respectively—a thought that has been engen¬
dered by the actual perception of Spiritualistic phenomena—
have at several meetings or seances got the [peculiar force in
sufficiently operative abundance, and seen and heard things
which, although not quite supernatural, do certainly smack
of the intensely mysterious. However much this presumptu¬
ous investigation may be stigmatised by the rigidly orthodox
as the impertinent inquisitiveness of heretical science, we
believe that the attention of the Hexham coterie, and of all
parties besides to this extraordinary Spiritualistic mania, will
be very much to the credit of our scientific and truth-seeking
proclivities.” The writer then describes a seomce at which he
was present, narrating how table movements, cool breezes,
and raps were obtained, and how a message was at last given,
as follows :—“ Probably those of our readers who have paid
any attention to this subject know that many Spiritualistic
messages are read from the end, or backwards, and they must
bear this in mind in reading the following, which was the
‘ spirits’ message to a young bachelor of the party :—‘ No
evol rih tsurt eeh niw.’ It will at once be perceived that
this was, read in the proper way, a very suitable message
for any young bachelor:—‘Win her; trust hie; love on.’
It will be seen that one of the ‘ hers ’ is mis-spelt, but it is
believed in quarters authoritative on the subject of Spirit¬
ualism, that ‘ spirits ’ are not invariably orthographists of
the first magnitude. Whether or not the encouragement
conveyed in those loving words was at all required by the
young gentleman in question was, of course, a mystery to the
company ; but, judging from certain facial expressions usually
—in ladies, at least—indicative of modesty, it Vras thought
that the injunction to love, trust, and win the fair pnknown
was not very inappropriate after all. Pursuing this erotic
conversation with the inhabitants of the air, the ‘ spirits ’
were asked for the name of the lady referred to. The com¬
pany, being elated with the success that had attended their
efforts were becoming light-hearted—one or two had, through
nervous fear, almost become light-headed—and their vivacity to
all appearance imparted itself to the communing ‘ spirits,’ who
gave the young gentleman’s Desdemona’s name in the follow¬
ing hieroglyphical terms :—‘ Mipiphfblulg. ’ Bead in the
usual spiritualistic fashion, this emblematic cognomen spells :
—‘ Gltjlbphpipim. ’ This was a poser, of which no one
could make anything. It was at first thought—not very
seriously perhaps^—that it might belong to some of the Japa-
nese who were that night in the Town-hall, but on enquiry
next day we learned that, had this opinion been entertained,
it was a remarkable case of mistaken identity. To the utter
astonishment of the company, the table told the exact number
of keys in the pockets of two gentlemen present. Neither of
them knew the number of keys on their respective bunches,
and the number was not counted until the table had rapped
at a particular number which in each case happened to be the
correct one. Another experiment was tried with a satin hat.
It was decided to try to raise it clean off the table by just
touching the surface of the rim with the tips of the fingers.
After five minutes or so the hat began to oscillate and wheel
round and round in the same way as the table had oscillated
and wheeled round and round before. At repeated requests
by the whole company, however, it was twice tilted clean off
the table—the most remarkable circumstance connected with
these movements being, that the fingers of the experimental¬
ists were about one-eighth of an inch apart from the hat.
This concluded the seance. Everyone also declared that he
or she had not used any illegitimate means to bring about the
singular phenomena they had witnessed; and all separated
fully convinced either that spirits do manifest themselves as
the Spiritualists say; that there is such a thing as a psychic
force, as Serjt. Cox declares; or that there is some power
about every human being about which nobody as yet knows
anything.”
188
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 1, 1873.
atamsputieiice,
[Great freedom, is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinio n
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.']
MRS. BASSETT’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Sib,—The first of a series of four consecutive Thursday
evening seances with Mrs. Bassett, of Stratford, was inaugu¬
rated on Thursday evening last, the 24th April, 1873. There
was a crowded attendance of members. The president of the
Association, Mr. Thos. Wilks, was seated on the right-hand
side of Mrs. Bassett, while Mrs. Corner sat on the left, and
the rest of the members, of both sexes, were placed alternately,
as near as possible, around a large mahogany dining-table
extended to its full length. The seance was, as usual, a dark
one, and the sitting was a most satisfactory one. The spirit,
“James Lombard,” conversed freely with those present,
answering innumerable*questions, and gave the president
what he considered to be a fair test of spirit identity. While
Mrs. Bassett’s hands were held by Mr. Wilks and Mrs. Corner,
both were frequently tenderly patted with hands, the fingers
of which were distinctly felt on the shoulders, forehead, and
other parts of the body. In the course of the sitting, Mrs.
Bassett was entranced by the spirit “ Charles Dalman ” who
also spoke with the “ direct voice” for some considerable time
upon the blessings of Spiritualism. James Lombard de¬
scribed the appearance of several spirits present, and in one
or two instances was confirmed by a lady present, who is a
seeing medium. The seance, which was much appreciated,
was closed about ten o’clock, after which a general conversa¬
tion took'place, and the members gradually dispersed.
Members are requested to note that visitors can only be in¬
troduced by them again this (Thursday) evening, in accordance
with Kule IX., and on payment of an entrance fee of 2s. 6d.
The remaining two seances with Mrs. Bassett will be for mem¬
bers only. The ordinary seances will, in future, be opened at
eight o’clock punctually, and members are urgently requested
to be in attendance not later than 7.45 p.m.
Thomas Blyton, Secretary.
Sir,—Three private consecutive seances have recently been
held with Mrs. Bassett, the well-known non-professional
medium, in the neighbourhood of Bow, and attended by a
considerable number of influential persons. The manifesta¬
tions were of an exceptionally satisfactory character, and,
considering that a large proportion of the observers were non-
Spiritualists, their numerous'objections were most readily
met and disposed of by the controlling spirits. At the close
of the third seance on Monday evening, the 7th inst., a most
cordial vote of thanks to Mrs. Bassett was carried unani¬
mously, and many expressions of satisfaction with the pro¬
ceedings were manifested. It is probable that regular social
spiritual meetings will be inaugurated in Bow soon. Those who
desire to co-operate for such reunion, can hear further of the
proposed scheme on communicating with “Eureka,” 12, High-
street, Bow, London, E. J. W. Isack.
spIbititaiism and chbtstianity.
Sib,—As an “outsider” from the ranks of professed Spi¬
ritualists, the thought has passed through my mind, and,
doubtless, through the minds of many others, who are silently
and thoughtfully observing the advancing spread of this new
phase of humanity, with all its marvellous phenomena, “ What
effect wilHt have upon the mass of mankind who are called,
and wish to be called, Christians ? That it will cause some
change either for good or for evil in the thoughts and affec¬
tions, consequently, in the social relationships of life of those
who came under its influence, even the most superficial of
thinkers and observers must admit. For my present purpose
I dismiss as futile and idle the objections of the incredulous,
and the vulgar charges of imposture and delusion, made by
scientific and unscientific sceptics against those who have
taken the trouble to investigate for themselves, and to see if
these things are as alleged. We find in most such cases the
proverb holds good, that “ The man who is the most ignorant
is the readiest to speak.” To the candid who have examined
and proved for themselves that the facts, of spiritualistic
phenomena are truths, I address myself.
Undoubtedly, we of this and incoming generations are
living in an eventful period of human history, and are in
the presence of a power that operates in a manner previously
unknown, unseen itself, yet visibly operating in nature, and,
for the time being, appearing to be subject to the laws of
time and space. Unknown as to its actuality, yet, for a time
and purpose acting independently of all known physical laws,
as, for instance, when strange lights are presented to the. eyes
of the beholder, when substances are apparently created, such
as snow in summer time, when flowers, fruits, and fabrics are
produced instantaneously, and are more or less continuously
tangible, when inanimate bodies such as chairs, tables,
instruments, and living human beings are conveyed through
space, and through the solid matter of ceilings and walls,
without apparent change in the configuration of such fixed
matter, and without any volition or effort on the point of
such human beings, as are the subjects of this overpowering
force.—I say then, in the presence of, and in contact with, such
a force and power as this, which can effect results so new, so
strange, and, it may be, so appalling, we may seriously ask,
“ What is it ? Whither does it tend ? Where will it stop ?
In participating in such a movement, we may be assisting in
the development of what may prove a great blessing to man¬
kind, or, on the other hand, what may, if the agency is
diabolic, prove to be the greatest curse that has befallen the
human race. Let us hope that the mediums who are gifted
with this power will use it wisely and well, not for selfish but
for noble purposes, so that the miseries, woes, and sufferings
of the less gifted and happy portions of mankind may be
alleviated. A mission of this character will be worthy the
sympathy and support of all who are what they profess to
be,—viz., Christians.
The question may fairly be put—“ How does Spiritualism
affect the doctrines of Christianity ? ” So far, its main effort
seems to be to establish the truth, that man lives on in a con¬
scious state of individuality immediately after the death of
the body, as proved by the facts of -spirit communion and
spiritual phenomena. This unquestionably is a great gain,
and so far as it goes, must have an elevating tendency ; but
beyond this, to my mind at least, the teachings of Spiritualists
are vague and conflicting. The literature of modern Spiritual¬
ism can hardly be said to be of a very high intellectual order,
and treats more of the ordinary incidents of spirit life, shorn
of those problems on which knowledge is evidently desired,
respecting the origin and destiny of man, the creation and
sustentation of that part of the. universe we call material;
the action and counter action of those mental forces called
good and evil, and above all, little or nothing is said or re¬
vealed upon the great first cause of all being, and the re¬
lationship existing between the Creator and created. I am,
however, aware of a standard literature dealing with these
subjects, but which is not adopted in the systems of Spiritual¬
ists as generally understood. There are three of these ; one,
TAe Divine System of Nature, by Andrew Jackson Davis ;
another, TAe Arcana Celestia, by E. Swedenborg ; and the
third, TAe Arcana of CAristianity, by T. L. Harris. These
are all professedly of spiritual origin ; and although we may
admit there is a difference without antagonism between the
two latter books, yet the first one, by Davis, is diametrically
opposed to the other two, for they both agree in testifying
that the effects of a voluntary course of evil; that is, of a
course opposed to the principles of Christianity, as laid down
in the New and Old Testaments (which are summed up in the
Decalogue and in the two Christian commandments), will
assuredly follow the transgressor, and will prove the means of
determining his position in the next life, and thus cause him
to be among the miserable. But Davis teaches that irre¬
spective of a man’s moral character, he is destined to pass
through several stages of spirit life, all of which are pro¬
gressive, until he arrives at the perfection of his being by
development.*
It must be evident that the result of these various teachings
upon uneducated minds will be to establish a powerful hold
and bias, hence the necessity of having a clear and harmonious
system of truth, otherwise any organisation of Spiritualists,
based merely upon the belief of immortality and spirit com¬
munion, will, sooner or later, prove to be a rope of sand.
I would further ask, “ Does Spiritualism affirm the truth as
recorded in the Christian Scriptures, especially in reference to
the author of Christianity, viz., Christ Himself ? ” What
answer does it give to the question—“ Was Jesus Christ man
or God, or both ?” In some sense^or other more or less defin¬
able, it has been considered that the essence of Christianity,
from its birth downward, to present times, is a belief in the
Divinity as well as the humanity of Christ, and that for the
purpose of saving mankind from hell, He became incarnate,
* Harris’s earlier worksiinculcate_ this doctrine, and deny the reality of
eternal punishment.—Ed.
May 1, 1873.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
189
hence what is called the doctrine of the Incarnation is the base
of all Christian belief. Remove this, and the edifice of
Christianity as a separate system of ethics falls and crumbles
away. With this also goes what has been considered the
glory of the Protestant Reformation, viz., the liberation of the
Scriptures from the hands of the clergy, and making them the
common property of mankind, as the revelation of God to
man.
In conclusion, to my view the phenomena of modern Spiri¬
tualism, when rightly understood, fulfil and corroborate the
spirit of Christianity, and marvellously uphold the truth of the
Christian Scriptures. Without entering into the doctrine of
the incarnation, it appears to my mind, a rational belief that
if a merely human spirit can be clothed with material sub¬
stance for a time and purpose, how much more could the
same thing be done by the “ Great Spirit, ” from whom all life
proceeds, and who has created forms to be recipients of life.
Could He not clothe Himself with material substance, so as to
be seen and known by the greatest of all His creations, man ?
Once allow the element of “ Divinity ” in that manifested
form, Jesus the Christ, and all that flows therefrom, ceases to
be anything but that which calls out the best and holiest of
characteristics of our nature,—namely, love, adoration, and
worship. W. 0.
Higher Broughton, April 19, 1873.
APPARITIONS.
Sir,—In your review of my little work on “ Apparitions,”
you say, that it “ is but the second edition of an essay pub¬
lished in March, 1856.” Permit me to observe that this
remark involves a double error. The second edition appeared
very soon after the first in 1856.* The essay just published,
and which formed the subject of your notice, is virtually a
new work. It has been almost rewritten, and, in fact, all the
extracts you gave, except one, never appeared in print till last
month. Your readers might infer, from your comments, that
I am a narrow-minded orthodox sectarian. No inference
could be more erroneous. I am, of course, glad to show that
the orthodox Christian belief has a very high order of
Spiritualism on its side. I do not think that any one Church
enjoys a monopoly of revealed truth, but to make our religion
practically useful, we must associate ourselves with some
special organisation. called a Church. I freely concede to
every one the privilege which I claim for myself—that of
choosing the particular Church which best harmonises with
my sympathies and my experience of what I consider to be
sound teaching. At page 75 I say, that “ I believe that God
rewards true devotion in whatever shape it comes before
him; ” and that “ we cannot safely dictate to others any
special or infallible plan of winning the Divine blessing.” At
page 118, I speak of “ our holy Protestant churches—many in
form, but one in essence.” I trust that you will allow me to
set myself before your readers in a true light.
Newton Crosland.
Blackheath, 12th April, 1873.
[The statements we published about Mr. Crosland’s sectarian opinions
were in his own words, quoted, all but three or four lines, verbatim from
his book.—Ed.]
AN UNRULY SPIRIT.
Sir,—The following episode, interesting as showing a diffi¬
culty sometimes incident to the development of mediumship,
occurred at a seance given by Miss Cook some time since. A
manifestation of spirit faces having taken place (as so often
described in your columns), the sitters adjourned for refresh¬
ment. Upon resuming the seance, Miss Cook entered the
cabinet. Instead, however, of a further display of faces, a
loud and petulaht knocking occurred on or about the cabinet.
This, through the alphabet, was found to be the work of a
spirit, calling himself “ Ned Ritchie,” who, upon being
questioned, announced his determination to “ spoil Katie’s
seance. ” He was gently remonstrated with, and in reply to
further inquiries, stated that he “ wanted gin,” that he had
‘‘passed away twelve years ago,” that he had ‘‘met the
medium that morning at the Post Office,” and was determined
to prevent Katie’s perseverance with the seance.” Meanwhile
the medium had not stirred, but complained much of a dis¬
agreeable, oppressive feeling, telling the sitters that she saw,
clairvcyantly, a tall, coarse man of forbidding aspect, dressed
* On page 119, Mr. Crosland states that the first edition was published in
1856; as he says nothing in the book about any second edition, and omits
the number of the present edition from the title-page, the erroneous infer¬
ence of which he now complains was natural,—Ed.
in a sort of carter’s smock, and would be glad to leave the
cabinet.
After a more pronounced remonstrance, Ritchie was firmly
but kindly informed that if he would seek the good offices of
Katie, and would manifest himself with courtesy, the circle
would be pleased, then or at any other time, to converse with
him. His determination for noise and mischief could not,
however be altered ; so, with much reluctance, the seance was
suspended, in the hope that his annoyance would cease.
But Mr. Ned Ritchie was not to be so easily disposed of ;
for under similar conditions, about twenty minutes later, he
thundered away to his heart’s content, and to the disappoint¬
ment of his auditors. This time the alphabet was refused
him, whereupon he evinced his displeasure by tearing down
the paper lining of the cabinet, and by disfiguring the doors
thereof with some pointed instrument,—a pair of scissors, as
we were afterwards informed by Katie. It was now agreed
to be imprudent to submit the medium to any further indigni¬
ties, and she was again released.
At her suggestion an ordinary table seance was arranged
impromptu. The room was darkened, and in a few minutes
the medium became entranced, in which state Katie, through
her, informed the sitting that they had done right in breaking
up the former seance, and that Ritchie was a low spirit
attached to a gang of navvies then at work in the neighbour¬
hood. The medium, Katie said, was to be assured that
although a low spirit had for once been successful, no harm
should happen to her ; her (Miss Cook’s) spirit friends being
more than powerful enough to shield her from harm. Shq
was cautioned, however, not to expose herself on any account
to the chance of questionable influences before a seance.
W. .
Spiritual Revelation op a Murder.—The Newcastle
Daily Chronicle of March 25 th last, contains a long official list
of executions in the North of England, among which is the
following, dated August, 1631 :—“ John Walker, a yeoman of
good estate, living at Lumley, and Mark Sharp, were executed
at Durham for the murder of Anne Walker, a kinswoman of
Walker’s, whose house she kept. She was supposed to be
with child, but would not disclose by whom, and after remov¬
ing to her aunt’s, Dame Caire, of Lumley, the two men called
her out one night, and she was not heard of afterwards.
However, some fourteen days after her disappearance, she
appeared to one Graham in the likeness of a woman with five
wounds on her head, who said she was the spirit of Anne
Walker, whom Walker and Sharp had murdered and put into
a coal pit. Graham related the matter to a justice of the
peace, and the body of A. Walker, with five wounds on her
head, was found at the place indicated. Henceforth, the
prisoners were apprehended, convicted, and hanged.”
Organisation among Spiritualists.—In consequence of
the absence from London of most of the gentlemen mentioned
in our last issue, in connection with the subject of organisa¬
tion amongst Spiritualists, it has been thought best to post¬
pone the proposed meeting at the Cannon-street Hotel,
although the general feeling is very strongly in favour of the
proposed measures. Perhaps Mr. and Mrs. Tebb, on their
return to town, will take some steps to promote the proposed
union. In past years theological differences prevented union,
but these may conveniently be ignored, when the chief objects
of union are to erect a building and to engage lecturers of all
shades of opinion. If there were a national organisation of
trusted Spirituahsts in London, to receive subscriptions and
control the expenditure, considerable sums, as we know from
private communications, would be forthcoming to aid the
movement, but at present the only associations in London are
those at Dalston, Marylebone, and Clerkenwell—all entirely
local. If our two best lecturers in London, Mr. Gerald
Massey and Dr. Sexton, were continually lecturing on Spi¬
ritualism in all parts of the country, the benefit to the move¬
ment would be immense; yet, in the event of Mr. Massey
being open to receive engagements, the only impediment is,
and has been, the absence of organisation, so that his efforts
have been few and far between. Not only are the efforts of
our best lecturers completely crippled by the absence of organ¬
isation, but the general quality of public meetings and plat¬
form utterances has been lowered during the past few years.
The series of conferences at Gower-street some years ago led
to speeches and discussions of much higher quality than the
present average. We ought to organise, if only for the pur¬
pose of controlling funds, which are readily forthcoming when
London Spiritualists have any elected officers in whom they
have confidence, to represent them.
190
THE SPIRITUALIST.
MKS. ANDREW’S MEDIUMSHIP.
Mrs. Andrews, of Moravia, New York State, was the
medium through whom spirit faces first began to appear regu¬
larly to many witnesses at once. The following account of
one of her seances is from the Banner of Light (Boston, U.S.),
February 8th, 1873 :—
There are seven persons present to form a circle. Only
three of these are strangers to me ; the rest my relatives who
accompanied me hither. We form a semicircle and join hands.
The medium, Mrs. Andrews, sits facing us., I can easily
touch her with my cane. My right arms rests on a pianoforte.
A lamp is burning brightly. It is nine o’clock in the morning,
but we need the lamp, because the only window of the apart¬
ment is darkened, and the only door bolted. -
The medium now remarks :—“ We first sit in the dark, and
continue until the spirits call for a light.” The light is now
extinguished. The piano begins to play. It is not the Me¬
dium, for I am conversing with her. Passing my cane along
the keys I feel no one; still the playing goes on, and is
directly assisted by voices, seemingly in the air above us, that
join in with great power and sweetness. Mysterious lights
are beginning to dance before us, describing curved lines and
circles, and playing around each other in a way that makes it
clear they are guided by intelligence. While this beautiful
display is going on, soft voices whisper startling things in our
ears, and delicate hands thrill us by gentle touches and
affectionate caresses. A familiar voice, long silent in death,
as I had thought, said to me, “ Dear brother, I come to greet
you. Believe me, this is your own sister Nancy. A fortnight
ago you visited my grave. I stood by your side, though you
saw me not, my spirit-body being invisible as the viewless air.
How I wanted to speak to you ! Thank heaven for the
present opportunity ! ” Tender lips now kissed mine. I sat
speechless, my heart swelling and throbbing, but directly
found relief in gushing tears.
During the dark seance white and purple clouds gathered
above our heads, and seemed in commotion. Their crimson
edges now and then shed such light as enabled us to see one
another, and every object in the room. Out of the clouds
came, at one time, a little dash of rain, accompanied by wind
and the rich perfume of flowers. Immediately after this, a
white figure that seemed a column of cloud, snowy, yet tinged
with something bright and luminous, came down and sat
before me. While I gazed, wondering what it might be, the
figure bent toward me, and out came a luminous hand, which
was gently laid upon my forehead. At remained but for a
moment, touching my temple and cheek affectionately. It
disappeared in the fleecy folds enveloping the mysterious
figure, which now ascended and was lost to my view amid the
moving clouds overhead.
After about thirty-five minutes of darkness, a voice in the
air said, “ Please strike a light.” Being nearest the light, I
'complied with the request. The medium, now rising from
her chair, went into the cabinet, which is a thing looking not
unlike a common wardrobe. It is made of plain, thin boards,
and has folding-doors about three feet and a half high. Above
the door hangs a black velvet curtain reaching down to the
top of the shutters when closed.
Upon entering the cabinet, the medium requested me to
close and latch the door after her. As I did so, I was surprised
to see an armless hand, white as snow, come out from under
the curtain and tap me on the hand and arm, which it did
quickly and several times, then darted back into the cabinet.
Resuming my seat in the circle, we waited a few minutes,
and the curtain of the aperture slowly moved aside while the
face of a man appeared. There was nothing ghostly in the
look or action of the apparation. Countenance, feature, com¬
plexion, and every movement of muscle, and motion of head,
hand and lip were perfectly natural. He bent his gaze stead¬
fastly upon a middle-aged man in the circle, who was a
stranger to me, and evidently made an effort to speak, but
failing, waved his hand and drew back from the light, letting
the curtain drop. The gentleman at whom the apparition had
looked so earnestly, now exclaimed : “ That was my father !
Oh, will he not speak to me ? ” Immediately the curtain went
aside again, and the same face presented itself, and another
effort—I thought a painful one—was made to speak. The
mouth opened, the lips moved, but no sound of voice was
heard. With a slight shade of disappointment on his counte¬
nance, the old man bowed his head twice, and putting forth
his hand, waved an adieu in a most feeling manner. In a few
seconds afterwards, the curtain was put back by a hand re¬
May 1, 1873.
sembling very much the armless one which had caressed me
at the aperture. And now a face, fae simile of one I had seen
coffined years gone by. Without speaking, I turned a glance
upon my sister in the flesh, sitting by my side. She was
trembling and weeping, so I felt sure she was not behind me
in the recognition of the face at the aperture. It Was our
dear departed sister, the same who had spoken to us in the
dark a few minutes before. She now uttered her own name
in her own clear, familiar tone. How the blood tingled in
my veins as her well-remembered grey eyes met mine! Nor
seemed she less moved than I. I could not keep my seat, but
glided up to the aperture, when she, with manifest emotion,
threw her arms around my neck. It was but for a moment.
Releasing me, she quickly disappeared behind the curtain.
But I must crowd the facts and incidents I propose to give
more closely. Of course I cannot set down all, nor even half,
in an article like this, intended to brief, which was elicited
during an investigation kept up, day after day, for three
weeks.
I saw many strange faces at the aperture,—some days from
ten to fifteen or twenty—the most of whom were recognised
by some one or more present in the circle. It was near a
week after the appearance of the sister j ust alluded to, before
I recognised another face, yet a number of apparitions pro¬
fessed to recognise me. At length two other sisters succeeded
in materialising themselves, and appeared side by side at the
aperture. The recognition was undoubted; my sister at my
side recognising them at the same moment I did; and strangers
present remarked upon the family resemblance. But the
certainty was made doubly certain when the apparitions
mentioned incidents in their earth-life and ours, which we
readily and vividly remembered.
A few days subsequent, our mother appeared, threw open
the door of the cabinet, and showed herself to us from head
to foot.
Six times during the three weeks, an old acquaintance, who
died a materialist, appeared to me, looked and talked natu¬
rally ; referred repeatedly to his materialistic notions, and
how unhappy they made him; said much about his present
condition, and its advantages over the former; tried to give
me an idea of spirit-life, the pursuits, pleasures, and amuse¬
ments of spirits, as well as their institutions for doing good,
educating the ignorant, and lifting higher the low and
debased.
I must give one more instance of recognition, and close my
story, already, perhaps, too long.
A few days before 1 left the place, a gentleman came there,
bringing with him two little girls—his own daughters—the
elder, perhaps, eight years old, the younger about six. Before
going into the seanee room, he said to me, “ When about
leaving home my wife observed, ‘ I would go too, if I thought
mother would show herself there; but as she was always
opposed to Spiritualism, I’m sure she’ll have no desire to
make any manifestation.' The last one I should look for,” he
rejoined, “she was so bitter against everything of the kind.”
But, lo ! after the light seance began, who should appear first
at the aperture but this same old grandmother. She bent her
eyes affectionately upon the children. The little girls gazed
a moment in mute astonishment, then both at once clapping
their hands in ecstacy, exclaimed, “ Grandma! Grandma !”
“ Keep still! ” said the father, in a low tone of voice, and
evidently much moved. Then to the apparition said, “ You
didn’t believe in this a few weeks ago.”
“ No,” replied the spirit, “ but, thank God, it is true! ”
These words were uttered very distinctly, and with a peculiar
stress of voice, indicating earnestness and deep feeling. The
old lady had been dead but three weeks.
I could give many more remarkable tests through recog¬
nition, but must close here.
Alton, III. Isaac Kelso.
The papers passed by the Psychological Committee will
be read at ordinary meetings of the Anthropological Institute.
Spiritualism in Edinburgh.—The Psychological Society
which has just been formed in Edinburgh, under the presidency
of Dr. G. B. Clark, is managed by a president, two vice-presi¬
dents, secretary, treasurer, and a committee of seven, and it
has in view a threefold object: firstly—by means of sub-com-
mittees forming sub-circles, to develop all manner of mediums
and medial phenomena; secondly—by means of careful reports
of facts observed, to have everything openly and fully discussed
at each regular meeting of the society; thirdly—by means of
papers and meetings, to generally popularise the subject and
help on all spiritual and psychological knowledge.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
191
May 1. 1873.
M. Aksakof, of St. Petersburgh, is unfortunately
obliged to postpone till the autumn his visit to London, for
the observation of spiritual phenomena.
About a week ago the council of the Dalston Society of
Inquirers into Spiritualism, unanimously invited Mrs. Bassett
to give a series of four seances to its members.
Mr. T. H. Noyes, M.A., has written several very good
letters of late, in the Broad Churchman, in favour of Spi¬
ritualism, and the editor has given remarkably fair and
liberal attention to the subject.
Subscriptions to the fund for the benefit of the Rev. J.
Murray Spear should be forwarded to Mrs. M. E. Tebb, 20,
Rochester-road, Camden-town, N.W., who has just received
£5 for Mr. Spear from Mr. Thomas Grant, of Maidstone.
Londoist Anthropological Society.—On the 25th inst*
the second ordinary general meeting of the London Anthro-
pological Society was held at the Scottish Corporation Hall,
Crane-court, Fleet-street, Dr. Charnock, F.S.A., in the chair.
The president read a letter from Dr. Broca, Secretaire general
de la Societe d'Anthropolegie de Paris, congratulating the
London Anthropological Society on its formation. He also
read an address pointing out the aim of Anthropology and
the subjects worthy of study. Among many other topics, the
address criticised the theory as to the affinity between, the
Deccanese, the Australians, and the Egyptians ; examined
the hypothesis of the descent of the English nation from the
ancient Britons ; and referred to the dispute between M.
Virchow and M. de Quatrefages relating to the Prussian race.
A paper was read by Mr. J. Kaines, on the “ Ultimate Object
of Anthropological Study $” and a paper by Dr. T. Inman, on
“ The Influence of Man upon Man and the Lower Animals
Dr. Carter Blake, Mr. Kaines, Mr. A. L. Lewis, and the pre¬
sident joined in the discussion which ensued.
ANSWERS to correspondents.
F. L. A. S.—Enclose your name and address next time.
M. D., Leamington.—You have withheld your name and address.
D., Brighton.—We have had little practical experience in the
matter of the observation of the materialising of other than
human forms and dresses by spirits, so cannot answer your ques¬
tion.
X.—Miss Shorter was not the finder, and Mr. Taylor was not pre¬
sent at the moment; if therefore the matter resolves itself into
charges and counter-charges between two mediums, any decision
must be more a matter of opinion than a matter of evidence, and
inquirers must be somewhat guided by the nature of the antece¬
dents of both parties.
T. S., Basinghall-street, referring to a remark in the last numbpr of
the Spiritualist, asks why the planets do not twinkle as well as
the stars ? Because the stars are to the eye mere points, whilst
the planets show a disc of sensible diameter, so that if a ray of
light from one part of the disc of a planet is refracted by air cur¬
rents, another ray from another part of the disc may fall upon the
same part of the retina, which consequently is apparently steadily
acted upon by light. When the moon or planets are viewed
through very powerful telescopes, different points upon their
surface are seen in incessant motion, technically termed “boil¬
ing,” owing to the varying refraction of the rays, caused by air
currents varying in temperature; this is why during very few
nights in the year in England, the atmosphere is still and clear
enough to enable lunar photography to be successfully practised.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER. Clairvoyant Examination and complete Diagnosis,
One Guinea. Mesmerising or Rubbing, One Guinea per week, and travelling
expenses.
Miss Godfrey may be seen, by appointment, at 161, Hampstead-road, N.W.
DR. HUGH McLEOD, Magnetic and Eclectic Physician,
103, Bell Terrace, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, treats acute and chronic
cases of disease—distance from the patient, of no moment. Examinations
made by either hair or carte. Dr. McLeod is assisted by one of the best
clairvoyants in the world. A guinea fee covers all correspondence. Testi¬
monials, and the highest references.
MR. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s
Conduit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings,
6s.; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 6s.; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
MISS HUDSON, Normal Clairvoyant and Prophetic
Medium, RECEIVES VISITORS daily (Sundays excepted), from
Twelve till Six o’Clock, at her Residence, 17, Castle-street, "Wells-street,
Oxford-street. Terms, Five Shillings each Visitor. Private Parties also
attended in the Evening; terms, One Guinea and travelling expenses.
BEVERIDGE & FRASER, Printers of The Spiritualist,
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.C., -
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Prmting.
Estimates forwarded on application.
G. H. ANDREWS,
TAILOR, &c.,
61, LAMB’S CONDUIT STREET, FOUNDLING, W.C.
BEGS to inform Gentlemen, who may honour him with
their patronage, they can be supplied with clothes cut in the most
fashionable manner, good materials, and sound workmanship, at very
moderate charges. Fit and style perfect, having been many years in the
well-known firm of Messrs. Pulford and Co., 65, St. James’s Street.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
Trousers, from   0 13 6 1 Black Suit, from  3 0 0
Vests  0 7 0 I Unrivalled Black Doe. 1 i 0
Tweed Suit    ... £2 10s. Od.
And all other Garments at the same moderate charges.
AAA Ready to be ADVANCED by the TEM-
PERANCE PERMANENT LAND AND BUILDING
SOCIETY on Freehold and Leasehold Property, for any period of years
not exceeding fifteen, the Mortgage being redeemable by equal Monthly
Instalments. Interest (in addition to a small premium) 5 per cent, on the
balance each year. ■
Apply to HENRY J. PHILLIPS, Secretary.
Offices: 4, Ludgate Hill, London, E.O.
Note.—More than One Million and a Half Pounds Sterling have been
advanced upon House Property alone.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
• SELLER, STATIONER, AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 3’9, Smallbrook^street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
1ST of SUBSCRIPTIONS to partially meet
EXPENSES of the FORTNIGHTLY PUBLICATION
Spibitualist —
Charles Blackburn, Esq.     ,,
»A Friend at a Distance ”  
A. L. Elder, Esq., per Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
“ A Friend." 
,W. Tebb, Esq.   
Enmore Jones, Esq 
C. F. Varley, Esq., F.R.S.  
Mrs. E. M. Cox  
“ Truthseeker ” (Liverpool)  
Sir Charles Isham, Bart    
Thomas Grant, Esq..-.    
J. 0. Luxmoore, Esq 
Justice 
F. S. A 
Friends at Brixton:—
Miss Ponder 
Miss E. Ponder ... ...
Mrs. Rudd  
“Longfellow ”  
Mr. Withall  
Mr. E. Bird ; ...
Mr. George Dawson ...
Mr. Dawson Rogers ...
Mr. Rogers  
Mr. Desmond Fitzgerald
Mrs. Gunyon 
“Bitterness’ 
“A Friend,” Temple
N. F. Daw, Esq. ...
Richard Beamish, Esq., F.I
James Wason, Esq. .,. .
Algernon Joy, Esq 
The Countess of Caithness
Mr. and Mrs. Edmiston
G. Nelson Strawbridge, Esc
John Beattie, Esq.
‘“A Friend,’’Manchester
Benjamin Coleman, Esq.
E. Musgrave, Esq.
“V.” 
A Clergyman of the Churcl
B. W. Pycock, Esq.
G. Thomson, Esq., M.D.
Mrs. Robert Campbell
Oscar von Hoffmann (Leipzig)
“AFriend,” F.R.S 
Miss Kislingbury 
Mrs. Makdougall Gregory..
Miss J. H. Douglas  
“ A Friend” 
John E, Purdon, Esq,, M.B.
Mrs. Hennings   
J. Craig, Esq 
G. D. (Hackney), Balance in
Subscriptions in aid of thi:
Esq., treasurer, Portman
of En,
tue
‘Thb
s. d.
0 0
3 3
3 3
2 10
2 2
0 10
0 8
excess of publishing account
object maybe remitted to N. Fabyan Daw,
chambers, Portman-square, W.; Benjamin
Coleman, Esq., Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood; or to Enmore Jones, Esq.,
Enmore-park, South Norwood, S.E.
/
192
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 1,1873,
HOW TO FOEM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
An experimental trial at home, among family friends and relatives,
often gives the most satisfactory evidence of the reality of spiritual
phenomena, and this is the best way for enquirers to begin. At
the same time, as no fully developed medium is present among
those who have never obtained manifestations before, possibly there
may he no results. Nevertheless, it is a very common thing for
striking manifestations to be obtained in this way at the first sit¬
ting of a family circle; perhaps for every successful new circle
thus started without a medium, there are three or four failures, but
no accurate statistics on this point have yet been collected.
Consequently, to save time, investigators should do as the Dia¬
lectical Society did, form several new circles, with no Spiritualist
or professional medium present, and at one or other of them re¬
sults will probably be obtained. When once manifestations have
been obtained they will gradually increase in power and reliability
at successive sittings. The following is a good plan of action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. "Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pbinted lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean, writing paper on the table, to write'down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members-of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. "When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let one person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “"Who is the medium?” "When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings of spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
EYILENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERYES
IRYESTIGATIOR.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volumes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart., M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“H.Gt. Atkinson, Esq.,F.G-.S., G."WheatleyBennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim,
Esq., C.E.; H. B. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D. ; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Kev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D.; D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.C.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds; James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. ‘J. G. Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.,
M.R.C.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq.; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; C. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; "William Yolckman, Esq.;.Horace S. Yeomans, Esq.
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee:—
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
"William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J.H. Levy,
Esq.; "W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. "Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah "Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:—
“ 1, That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the.touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanica 1
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force-by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time and in
the manner asked for by persons present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.—
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the ■committee, persons of socia
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’
In another part of the report the same committee stated:—
“After a committee of eleven persons had been sitting round a dining
table for forty minutes, and various motions and sounds had occurred, the
chairs were turned with their backs to the table, at about nine inches from
it. All present then knelt upon their chairs, placing their arms upon the
backs of the chairs. In this position, the feet were of course turned away
from the table, and by no possibility could be placed under it or touch the
floor. The hands were extended over the table at about four inches from
the surface.
“ In this position, contact with any part of the table was physically im¬
possible.
“ In less than a minute the table, untouched, moved four times ; at first
about Jfoe inches to one side, then about twelve inches to the opposite side,
then about four inches, and then about six inches.
“ The hands were next placed on the backs of the chairs and about afoot
from the table. In this position, the table again moved four times, over
spaces varying from four to six inches. Then all the chairs were removed
twelve inches from the table. All knelt as before. Each person folded his
hands behind his back, his body being about eighteen inches from the
table, and having the back of the chair between himself and the table. In
this position the table again moved four times, in like manner as before
In the course of this conclusive experiment, and in less than half an hour,
the table moved, without contact or possibility of contact with any person
present, twelve times, the movements being in different directions, [and
some according to the request of different persons present.
“The table was then carefully examined, turned upside down, and taken
to pieces, but nothing was discovered. The experiment was conducted
throughout in the full light of gas above the table.
“Altogether your committee have witnessed upwards of fifty similar
motions without contact on eight different evenings, in the houses of
different members of your committee, and with the application of the most
careful tests their collective intelligence could devise.”
TO INEBRIATES AND THEIR FRIENDS.
Just published, limp, Is. 6d.; cloth 2s.,
ON INEBRIETY, Continuous and Periodical, considered
as the Result of Physical Disease, and distinct from the Vice of
Intemperance: its Causes, Nature, Treatment, and Cure, showing the
curability of the worst cases of Intemperance. By Sylyanus Harris, M.D.
(Pennsylvania).
HAMMOND and 0,0., 20, Catherine-street, Strand; or post free from the
Author, 14, Serle-street, Lihcoln’s-inn, "W.O.
Foolscap 8vo., cloth. Published at 3s., now offered at 2s.; post free, 2s. 3d.
THE MENTAL CURE: illustrating the Influence of
the Mind on the Body both in Health and Disease, and the Psycho¬
logical Method of Treatment, by Rev. "W. F. Evans, author of “The
Celestial Dawn,” “The Happy Islands,” “The New Age and its Messen¬
ger,” Sc., Sc., Sc.
Glasgow: James M‘Geachy, 89, Union-street.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders .executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
 LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH. 
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE SALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
EJ. BLAKE respectfully informs the friends of
9 Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive.subecribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, Sc., Sc. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
N ewcastle-on-Tyne.
EBIRD, Builder, House-decorator, Plumber, and
• Gasfltter, desires to inform his Friends and Employers that he
has taken NEW PREMISES, at 11, Park-grove, Shepherd’s-lane, Brixton,
opposite the Railway Station. Estimates given for every description of
work in the above branches.  
A CARD.
ISS ANNA BLACKWELL begs to offer a copy of
Spiritualism and Spiritism to enquirers who will call for it at Mr.
Burns’s, 15, Southampton-row, Holborn, W.O., or send a half-penny stamp
for postage.
Paris, March 10, 1873.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Fraser, at the Holborn Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
