A F^ECOF^D Of THE PROQREff Of THE JSCIEJMCE y\ND ETHICf OF £PJF^JTU^XJfM.
No. 9.—Vol. I.
LONDON: SUNDAY, MAY 15, 1870.
Published on the 15th of every
Month; Price Threepence.
THE DIALECTICAL SOCIETY.
The Dialectical Society was founded early in the year
1867 for “ the philosophical treatment of all questions,
especially those which lie at the root of the differences
of opinion which divide mankind.” The formation of
such a society was felt to be desirable, because most
bodies of a kindred nature exclude religious, political,
and a few social subjects from consideration from fear
of popular prejudices or other reasons. The founders
resolved that in the discussions of the Dialectical Society
sectarianism of §very kind should be rigidly excluded ;
that all distinctions founded upon social condition, occu¬
pation, and the like should be disregarded; also, that the
only recognised qualifications for membership should be
an unstained character, and a genuine desire to pro¬
mote the objects of the society. Another principle
adopted was the most absolute freedom of debate, and
it was agreed that no subject whatever should be ex¬
cluded from consideration, except upon the ground of
its triviality.
The founders of the Dialectical Society in their
prospectus say:—“ The London Dialectical Society will
have effected much good, if, by its means, persons
are made to feel that to profess a belief on a disputed
question with regard to which they refuse to examine
tiie evidence, is an act altogether unworthy of a rational
being; and that the only method of arriving at truth
is by submitting one’s opinion to the test of unsparing
and adverse criticism. Freedom of speech and thought
are (not less than personal freedom), the natural birth¬
right of all mankind. To refrain from uttering opinions
because they are unpopular betokens a certain amount
of moral cowardice, engendered by long-continued per¬
secution. To state fearlessly the truth, or what we be¬
lieve to be the truth, even though it be held only by a
few, is the act of all who consider the exercise of pri¬
vate judgment a right, and the extension of human
knowledge a duty. But society generally has not yet
reached such a stage of progress as to allow individuals
to give expression to their honest and deliberate con¬
victions, without inflicting upon them penalties more or
less severe. The effect of this is to deter men from ex¬
pressing opinions which might be corrected if erroneous
or accepted if true. In the London Dialectical Society,
however, not only will no person suffer obloquy on ac¬
count of any opinion which he may entertain or express,
but he will be encouraged to lay before his fellow-
members the fullest exposition of his views 
Let us be mindful of the fact that throughout the whole
history of the world the voice of authority has con¬
stantly opposed new truths; and, with an earnest de¬
sire both to learn and teach, let us zealously follow the
practice of dialectics, unaffected by the praises of some,
undeterred by the denunciations of others, but conscious
of honesty and purity of motive, and desirous for the
wisdom and happiness of man.”
Here, then, was a society formed upon upright and
pure principles, ready to receive truth with open arms,
however unpopular that truth might be. When the
radiant and powerful young science of Spiritualism
gained a footing in these islands, ready to teach the
dwellers therein that a telegraph can be established be¬
tween themselves and the loved immortals whom the
world calls “ dead,” where could it submit its claims to
honest investigation? Not to theological leaders who
have lost their ancient standing, and no longer hold the
confidence of the nation as its best guides in matters
appertaining to science, literature, or art. Among
these leaders are many who are most deservedly loved
and respected for their promotion of active deeds of
charity, but beyond that there is too much fighting
among theologians for dying creeds of words, for high
salaries, for political power, and for landed property.
Neither could the young science go to the natural and
proper place for its reception—the Boyal Society—for
the Royal Society, with its high honours and its im¬
mense brain force, has become sufficiently corrupted by
power to omit from consideration facts which are un¬
popular enough “ not to be respectable.” Of late years,
also, it has shewn a bias towards exclusiveness, and
towards the acquisition of political power, as well as to¬
wards the elucidation of scientific truth. Up to about
two years ago the- Royal Society might have said, with
truth, that too little was publicly known of the physical
phenomena of Spiritualism to make it reasonable to
suppose that such phenomena deserved investigation.
This plea has long been untenable, notwithstanding
which many years probably will yet unnecessarily
elapse, before anything appears in the Philosophical
Transactions about the wonderful facts of the
occasional movement of solid objects without con¬
tact with human beings, or with any visible appliance
competent to produce such an effect. The Royal Society
is too dignified and respectable to investigate natural
phenomena, if such phenomena have to be observed
beneath the fire of popular ridicule. Cannot a man be
found in its ranks who will make the Society irrevoc¬
ably commit itself by rejecting a paper on “ Certain
remarkable Phenomena called Spiritual Manifesta¬
tions ?” The Royal Society is now in such a state that
if Diogenes of old were to apply for admission into its
ranks he would be told that he must first give up his
tub, then gain plenty of very respectable associates, and,
finally, have a moderate balance in the bank. Socrates
would most certainly be snubbed by the Royal Society
as a low street preacher. Let a peer of the realm,
quite guiltless of a knowledge of science, and a meri¬
torious man of science of more than average capacity,
stand at the door of the Royal Society and knock, the
former would most certainly be admitted to the rejec¬
tion of the latter, and every member of the council
knows this statement to be true.
In thus criticising the faults of the Royal Society,
its virtues are most freely admitted. Although it is as
yet too low spiritually to rise much above the fashion¬
able vices of the age, intellectually it is without a rival
as a public body, and the researches of its members
have been of enormous practical value to the world.
There is no necessity to call attention to* other learned
corporations in London, none of which were ready to
open their doors for the reception of the science which
will in time throw a bridge across the wide and deep
chasm of the grave, and establish communication with
the shining hosts on the other side. The Anthropo¬
logical and Ethnological Societies ought to do so, but
the council of the former has sacrificed its historical
reputation in this respect, and the latter has made no
sign, whatever its president may have done.
So the young giant, who in twenty years has wrought
such wondrous changes in American thought, found no
scientific body of men in England acting upon
sufficiently pure principles to consent to examine his
credentials, except the little and almost unknown
Dialectical Society, which, verily, has <£ received an
angel unawares.” And the young visitor will put the
alleged principles of the men composing the society to
the severest of tests, for great will be the popular abuse
if they do not bend more or less to the worthless opinions
of the millions who have not investigated the subject.
Some little evidence that they feel an improper pres¬
sure upon them is visible in the fact, that in all the
accounts which have been published of the manifesta¬
tions seen by their sub-committees, the names of the
Society’s witnesses have not been given. If the very
eminent legal practitioner, who, on behalf of the Dia¬
lectical Society, saw a chair rise in the air, without con¬
tact with anything, and then fall on the top of a table,
had permitted his name to be published along with his
statement, what a noise there would have been among
the lawyers! This remarkable withholding of the
names of official witnesses of interesting facts, is a
suppression which perhaps has never before been
paralleled in the investigations of any scientific body,
thereby proving that there is something very excep¬
tional in this case, and that the inquirers feel them¬
selves to be working under great pressure. Whatever
the Dialectical Society may say or do their decision
will have no influence whatever over the established
phenomena of nature, in the shape of Spiritual manifes¬
tations, and the chief action of their report will be to
test their steadfastness to their own principles, and to
determine whether they as men are made of true steel.
Should their report attempt to demolish the facts of
Spiritualism they will be flinging a moral boomerang,
which cannot possibly annihilate the laws of nature,
but which will return after the lapse of a certain time,
and make short work with the reputations of the
throwers who did not act up to their professed
principles. As yet, however, we know of no evi¬
dence that the investigators will not draw fair con¬
clusions from the evidence which they have so patiently
collected.
THE WEIGHT OF AUTHORITY.
OuR friends of the Spiritual Magazine a few months
ago inserted an article on theological subjects, which
gave rise to “the Bible-Spiritualism Controversy,” in
these columns, and to a controversy of a less friendly
description in Human Nature. The article which thus
gave rise to so much work for the printers, laid much
stress upon the value of the teachings of Tertullian,
who is one of the “ church fathers.”
Uneducated people, who have not the power of
thinking for themselves, are easily kept down by the
authority of great names. When they have to be de¬
pressed for theological purposes, the names of living
celebrities are not usually chosen wherewith to perform
the crushing operations, because the lives of such per¬
sons are open to some extent to accurate observation,
and awkward facts are liable to crop up, to prove that
they are but ordinary mortals. Hence designing leaders
of the populace speak much of the “ perfection of anti¬
quity,” that is to say, of the perfection of men who
lived when we Britons were very little above the level
of savages. The ignorant person thus taught, attaches
an ideal image to the great name which is thrust upon
him, and the imaginary personage he conjures up of
course differs much from the real individual.
Hence, when the name of one of the “church fathers”
is used to create a superstitious reverence in the minds
of the unthinking, it is useful sometimes to convey
matter-of-fact prosaic ideas, of what the men- really
were. In the article in the Spiritual Magazine, Ter¬
tullian was the venerable individual selected to close
the mouths of those who wished to reason on the sub¬
ject, we will therefore let Tertullian speak for himself,
to prove his own character.
Tertullian advised his followers not to go to theatres
or other public spectacles, and comforted them for not
doing so on the plea that hereafter they would have a
more joyous entertainment than any upon earth, for
they would then see their fellow countrymen writhing
in the torments of hell. “What,” he exclaimed, “shall
be the magnitude of the scene ? How shall I wonder ?
How shall I laugh ? How shall I rejoice ? How shall
I triumph when I behold so many and such illustrious
kings, who were said to have mounted into heaven,
groaning with Jupiter their god in the lowest darkness
of hell! Then shall the soldiers who had persecuted
the name of Christ, burn in more cruel fire than any
they had kindled for the saints. . . . Then shall the
tragedians pour forth in their own misfortune more
piteous cries than those with which they had made the
theatre to resound, while the comedian’s powers shall
be better seen as he becomes more flexible by the heat.
Then shall the driver of the circus stand forth to view,
all blushing in his flaming chariot, and the gladiators
pierced, not by spears, but by darts of fire. . . . Com¬
pared with such spectacles, with such subjects of triumph
as these, what can praetor or consul, quaestor or pontiff,
afford? And even now faith can bring them near,
imagination can depict them as present.” *
Tertullian also wrote that the Almighty would never
pardon an actor, for actors try to “ add a cubit to their
stature ” by wearing high-heeled boots, in express de¬
fiance of the teachings of the New Testament.
Another of the church fathers—St. Chrysostom—
declared a woman to be “a necessary evil, a natural
temptation, a desirable calamity, a domestic peril, a
deadly fascination, and a painted ill.”
Mr. Home’s Readings. — The public readings at the
Hanover-square Booms, which have been just given by Mr.
D. D. Home, have passed off very successfully, and greatly
pleased the listeners present. The slight weakness of voice
at one time noticed by Mr. Home’s friends, has passed away.
Among the journals which at different times have spoken in
high terms of Mr. Home’s readings are The Morning Post, The
Court Journal, the Daily Telegraph, Illustrated London News,
Morning Advertiser, and the Era. The Era, a journal con¬
ducted by experienced theatrical critics says: “ The strong
feeling displayed in the reading of Tennyson’s poem of the
‘ Grandmother,’ the dramatic ability and impressive delivery
of Edgar Poe’s ‘ Raven,’ would be quite sufficient to place
Mr. Home in the formost rank of public speakers.” Last
Thursday night, as will be seen in a report upon page 68, Mr.
Home gave some readings at Dr. Newton’s reception soiree
much to the pleasure of the listeners. He is about to give
some more readings at the Hanover-square Rooms.
* Tertullian, De Spectac, cap. xxx.
66
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 15, 1870.
Reports of Jftmmgs.
ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
INSPIEATIOITAL LECTURE ON- THE USES OF SPIRITUALISM.
On Thursday, April 21st, Mr. J. J. Morse, trance medium,
delivered a lecture “ under influence ” before the St. John’s
Association of Spiritualists, St. John’s Hall, Corporation-row,
Clerkenwell. Mr. C. W. Pearce presided, and made a few
introductory remarks.
Mr. Morse then passed into the trance state, and under the
controlling influence of his guardian spirit, Tien Sien Tie,
was made to deliver the lecture, of which the following is a
summary. The controlling spirit said that in bringing the
subject of the uses of Spiritualism before the notice of those
present it would be well to remember that man is dual in his
composition, that he has within his body an active mind,
which often wanders away from the beaten tracks of thought,
wanders on into the dim future, trying to gather fragrant
flowers or truths from the plains beyond. History discloses
that the true strength of any nation depends upon the free
expression of individual thought, but reason should always
govern thought. History also shows that everything out of
the beaten track is at first condemned, and then looked upon
as a delusion and a snare, more especially if it deals with the
religious nature of man. Man should not however be treated
with sops, but be permitted to think freely ; he is too often
held down with bands forged and fettered by his fellow man,
yet all the time the world talks of brotherly love.
Spiritualism brings before the mind of the thinking man
certain occult phenomena, of which he had previously been
ignorant. To the religionist it brings support of his belief in
a future existence, and it brings knowledge to those who study
the ills of body and mind. It sweeps away many of the errors
of - past ages, and substitutes facts for fallacies. A great deal
is said in the religious world about “ revelation,” and if we
ask how this revelation came, we are told to rest, and not to
be too presumptuous, but Spiritualism brings us face to face
with the facts of past ages. There are many diseases quite
beyond the grasp of the medical profession, but the clair¬
voyant or spiritual medium, takes the hand of the patient,
and traces the disease back to its source ; when the whole
thing is thus spread out before the spirits, they can prescribe
either to cure or to relieve the pain. In all this there is in¬
struction, and where knowledge is gained there must be
elevation.
When the religionist, bowed down with grief and unnum¬
bered sins, sees death approaching, he fears him, for he fears
to leave his wife and children, and he has a confused miscon¬
ception of a future life. But Spiritualism abolishes this fear,
and by its phenomena shows its one great use—namely, the
power of proving that there is an existence beyond the grave.
He who examines the phenomena and analyses their teach¬
ings, finds plenty of confusion and contradictions, but at last
the truth becomes clear to him, and he proclaims the truth
that man lives beyond the grave, and that the Great Father is
truly a being of love. There is use and elevation there.
Some spirits are clever at science and inventions, and by
the aid of mediums now and then assist some branch of
manufacture. Here is something done that helps man—
something done with a good intention—not always, perhaps,
the best that could have been done ; but still there is a use,
and a service.
Spiritualism reveals to us that we are self-dependent, that
we must work out our future for ourselves, and that we should
not waste time by trying to hammer our own opinions into
other people’s heads. Whatever exists is noble, and spiritual
phenomena being entities should be studied, and can be
known. Every subject requires conformity to certain con¬
ditions before it can be known; and spiritual things are no
exception to this rule. If the external man be subdued, the
spiritual state can be entered, and as the spiritual state is
around us, it is not necessary to leave the body to gather
knowledge about it; but a power like this must be worked
for, just the same as any other. This state may be induced,
yet at first the liberated mind will fail to impress its ideas on
its outer consciousness, but at last it will make its outer con¬
sciousness aware of what it sees and understands. As man
has a double consciousness there is nothing unreasonable in
supposing that this can be accomplished. Those who listen
to a clairvoyant should not believe everything he says, be¬
cause there may be conditions unknown to the hearers, caus¬
ing him to say certain things in his own light, or by here¬
ditary bias. Even the ordinary manifestations are affected by
the condition of the medium and of the people about him.
The student of nature finds much to delight him in the
phenomena, and his heart therefore opens to the Giver of all
good. The clairvoyant gives him a vast knowledge of the
earth and its inhabitants,* and proves how everything is con¬
tinually growing, from the hard granite rock, to the walking
machine called “man,” thus unfolding the law of progressive
development. He finds out also that he has more or less power
to relieve pain. This is no new thing, it was known to the
ancient Egyptians, and is still well-known among eastern
nations, but for the present purpose it may be considered to be
a new power, enabling the operator, who is sometimes assisted
by invisible friends, to effect great and marvelllous cures.
In this there is a use, great and good.
One branch of the science of Spiritualism, namely mesmer¬
ism, shows how one man can affect others in his company, and
produce marvellous results. Is it wonderful when one man
can thus influence another, that many run into errors or
so-called sins ? The negative mind is drawn on by the positive
mind, and at last gets lost in dissipation. Then the world
gives its verdict, from which there is no appeal. But those
who understand the science will view this aspect leniently,
will view it quietly and gently, will s'ee extenuating circum¬
stances, thus teaching another lesson of brotherly love. There
is a use in this.
Spiritualism is preeminently a science—the science of the
study of man. It shows the relations of a brother I to his
brother man and to the world which he inhabits ; but to deve-
lope this science, years of patient toil will be required. It
will give man a knowledge of the invisible world, and of
the divisions of society in the spirit land. It will reveal to
him his duties as a rational intelligent being, it will aid in his
work of toning down this seething world, and in subduing
error and dogmatism. Surely there is a use in all this ?
Here is study for the scientist, for the materialist, for the
religionist, and even for the listless who considers it a bore to
live. It shows us that there is a natural religion, but that
religion by itself is a poor rope to trust to, it is only one
strand of a good rope. Religion without knowledge is dog¬
matism, and the one must support the other. Spiritualism
* See Denton’s Soul of Things.—Ed.
throws away the mystery hitherto hanging over religious
teaching, it impresses the mind with kindly feelings and noble
thoughts, and a thing which has such power must be useful.
The power must also come from a good source, for “ by their
fruits ye shall know them.”
There are men who seeing so much misery and suffering in
the world, say “ Why does God permit it ? ” and then they
drift away from all religion, although they had better cling
still to that feeble strand than to none at all. They never
ask why the evil is there, they do not see that the things
which men call “ evil ” have a relative use tending to the
general good. But he who knows the causes of an effect has
the key in his hand. Many sensitive media have the power of
pointing out the origin of certain evils, to the benefit of those
who hear and use the knowledge given, instead of going away
and forgetting it. The sensitives who give these truths to the
world have their trials, many sink under them like the gentle
Nazarene, and cry “ JEli, eli, lama sabacthani” The gentle
Nazarene was a man born, before His time. He saw the
causes of wrong but had not the power to apply the remedy.
Another man may be born who may have greater power of
execution, for in the coming time the power of love and
sterling merit shall rule the world, and have dominion over
class and caste. Here is another use.
The business of life and the duties of home should not
occupy the time of men and women, to the utter exclusion of
that which belongs to the inner nature, for the man within
governs the man without. If the man within goes wrong,
the man without must go wrong, and discord will prevail.
Spiritualism teaches man many of the laws of his inner nature.
What is the tendency of all these uses ? Is it to produce
power? Is it to make tyrants ? No; its tendency is to im¬
prove the mind, to clear away thoughts which press upon the
minds of men, and to let the pure sun of reason shine with
full lustre. This must tend to give all minds knowledge and
wisdom. The man who has the power of healing must be
inspired with love and kindness. The tendency of Spiritualism
with the religionist is to increase his sense of religion, to
make it strong and durable, and to add new fuel to the sacred
fire within, for it shows how kind the Great Source has been
to humanity, to permit the veil to be raised, to let men see
beyond the tomb, and to let them speak to the loved ones
who have gone before. His reason then takes the hand of
his religion, and pale-eyed charity comes along the road. He
sees how grand are the laws which govern religion, and how
ignorant he had previously been—how he should ever act so
as to preserve the sacredness of life on both sides of the silent
river. Thus will his reverence be increased for the Great
Creator.
Mortals, I never yet knew a man or woman who in the
inner heart believed in utter annihilation, because such belief
does not naturally exist. When the cares and troubles of life
are laid aside for a time, and all is hushed, the spirit wanders
into the dim unknown, but the flesh will not hear the still
small voice within, and it becomes confused. The man then
feels “ Well, I don’t want to think about it,” and then he dis¬
misses the subject, though he wishes that he could believe
the spiritual manifestations in the sacred volume. But when
the modern manifestations came under his own scrutiny he
stands upon the shore free from doubt and from the waves of
difficulty ; he knows that he lives for ever, and he thanks God
for it.
No subject will produce a favourable impression upon him
who thinks it is a bore to live. Spiritualists should never
condemn this brother, who pays no attention to anything
beyond himself. Endeavour to improve and to till the land
which has lain fallow so long, plant in his soul some germs of
reason, stir up his stagnant mind t6 action, let him know that
he will have a reckoning to pay, not to a bar of justice, but
to one of the sternest judges of all—his own conscience. Con¬
science will smite him hard when he has to look back upon
such a life.
The existence you are now enjoying, with all its beauties,
with all its glories, is but the commencement of the course
which you will have to run. Here you can draw within your¬
selves that which will assist you in future ages, by spreading
happiness,- by gaining knowledge, and by spreading good
around you. This is the school where the infant is trained.
Woe to the infant if he neglect his schoolhouse ! He must
suffer, and he alone. Do not condemn a brother hastily, but
have charity and brotherly love. Spiritualism instructs and
lifts the mind; it tends to draw the man onwards and up¬
wards to that source from which we all come. We always
feel ourselves drawn to it, but never near enough to compre¬
hend that which is above the scope of our own intelligence.
Try to lead useful lives, for such a course will draw down
blessings from friends in the higher life, who see you both in
the rum shop and upon the rostrum. M any of you would not
offend your earthly friends, and because you cannot see them,
why should you offend them when they are gone ? Farewell.
Mr. Morse having sat too often for manifestations for some
time previously, the spiritual control during the delivery of
this lecture was much weaker than usual.
SPIRITUALISM IN STRATFORD.
On Sunday afternoon, May 1st, a public meeting was held
in the Working Men’s Hall, Stratford, Essex, to consider the
subject of Spiritualism and its teachings. The Rev. T. Crow,
Unitarian minister, presided.
Mr. Collier, of Forest-gate, had undertaken to be present to
answer any questions which might be put about Spiritualism, he
having lectured there on the subject on several previous occa¬
sions ; but he was unable to attend the meeting now under
notice, because of severe inflammation of the right arm. Con¬
sequently, at the invitation of the President, Mr. Bassett con¬
sented to take the place of Mr. Collier. A variety of ques¬
tions of a more or less elementary nature having been put,
Mr. Bassett said that before answering them he should
like to make a few introductory remarks. Two years ago he
had taken part in a similar discussion to the present one, and
then he did not believe in the truth of Spiritualism, although
for some years previously he had been acquainted with the
phenomena. Two years ago he had publicly stated that he
should like to give believers in it six months in a lunatic
asylum, so he should not be at all surprised if many of those
listening to him, were now wishing him the same fate. After
five years of thorough investigation he became a believer.
After much inquiry his difficulty had been “ Why cannot I
get these phenomena alone, by myself ?” He put this question
at a spirit circle, and he was told that he could get them by
himself if he became a medium. He then asked, * Am I a
medium?” and the spirits said “No.” “Oh, then,” he
thought, “ it’s no use pursuing the subject further,” but then
he remembered that his wife was with him at the seance, so
he asked, “ Is Mrs. Bassett a medium ?” The reply was,
“ Yes.” Accordingly they went home and sat for manifesta¬
tions by themselves, in a room free from springs and man-
traps; night after night did they sit and get nothing, but at
last faint raps were heard, which at first he put down to the
cat. They continued their sittings, the raps grew louder, and
at last the table began to move. Sometimes when they were
not sitting for manifestations or thinking of Spiritualism, the
table would move about with all the tea things on it, and this
in broad daylight. Once, when it was moving and had
nothing upon it, he asked, “ Is any spirit present ?” and the
table turned upside down. (Laughter.) They might laugh,
but it was true. He witnessed the phenomena for a long time
in his own home, and at last became convinced that they
were produced by spirits. He had known spirit hands and
arms to be formed, and to touch himself, with nobody else
present but his wife. It was true that the hands were formed
in the darkness, but he knew that his wife did not produce the
effects, because he held both her hands, and while he did so
the spirit hands were passed over his face. He had also
heard the spirits talking with audible voices, just as human
beings still in the body talk to each other. Electricity could
not produce hands and audible voices. He stated all these
facts to shew that he had not jumped to a conclusion on the
matter all at once. Mr. Bassett then proceeded to answer the
questions, some of which were put to elicit information, and
some were framed on the supposition that Spiritualism is all
imposture. While answering the questions the speaker said
that in very many cases three of his senses had been
influenced by the phenomena at the same time—namely,
feeling, hearing, and seeing. In answer to the inquiry when
the phenomena first appeared, he would reply—“ To Adam
and Eve in the garden of Paradise.” He could hardly say
whether the communications were good or bad, for it is a
great question “What is good and what is bad?”—but he
knew that good Christian spirits came and told him that they
are now happy and reaping their reward, and others who were
not Christians while upon earth, say that they are now not
happy in consequence. Thete is no eternal punishment.
Mr. Cockett said that he did not like the assumption that
Spiritualism is an imposture, which had been implied in some
of fthe questions put to Mr. Bassett. Their friend Mr. Collier
was known to be an honest man, and to regard Spiritualism
as such a serious thing, that he made it a subject of prayer,
so he thought that to laugh at it was not right. And the
statements made by Mr. Collier were of the utmost import¬
ance, for he said that he had direct knowledge that in the
next world the destiny of man is eternal progression, and
there is no eternal punishment. Mr. Collier had also stated,
on the authority of Professor Hare, that in America about
25,000 hard-headed sceptics had become Spiritualists; he (Mr.
Cockett) should like to know how far these statistics can be
verified. He should like to ask what good to mankind is likely
to be derived from Spiritualism ? One of the banes of Spiri¬
tualism is that it seems to make men think so much about the
far away spirit land and future life, to the forgetfulness of
their present duties, and if this be the case, it will do no
more good than the ordinary Trinitarian religion.
Mr. Taylor asked how Mr. Bassett knew that electricity
did not produce the phenomena ?
Mr. Bassett said that Mr. C. F. Yarley, who knew as much
about electricity as anybody, had stated distinctly that the
phenomena are not of an electrical character.
The President said that although objections had been
made, he thought no day so fit as the Sabbath to discuss
questions bearing upon religion, or upon the facts which
underlie all our religious beliefs. Our great poet has spoken
of “ That bourne from which no traveller returns,” and we all
feel that it is an unknown land. If, then, Spiritualism can
prove that there is communication with the unseen world,
what a priceless boon it will be ? He believed that Spiritu¬
alism could not make good its professions. While we may
be troubled, and not know the nature of the laws which govern
the real though strange phenomena of Spiritualism, we do
know that they are not produced by existences in another
world. It had been asked, “ When did the phenomena first
appear ? ” and he would reply that they were known as far
back as prehistoric times ; the Bible is full of them, and he
thought that Spiritualism is making us understand certain
things in the Bible, which otherwise would be inexplicable.
In the Bible there' is much about people who went into trances,
and had communications from spirits, and after receiving
these communications they went forth to assume authority
over their fellow men. If Spiritualism were real, what ought
it to have done ? After existing, as it has done, for the last
four or five thousand years in every country under heaven,
if the communications had been real they would have given
us a history of the world beyond the grave, of its constitutional
government, and of the state of its society and laws. It
would also have given us a history of the lives of our remark¬
able men after they reached the other side, and their present
doings would form the subject of many of the telegrams
coming from the other world. Yet they give us absolutely no
information about that world. The men who have these mani¬
festations get into a terrible jumble ; they say what they have
seen, and then get their ideas into a muddle. They are not
clear-headed people, although there are some exceptions, for
Robert Owen was a convert to Spiritualism before his death,
and it made him believe in a future life. He never found
that a belief in Spiritualism made a disbeliever any better.
He knew a man who once did not believe in a future state,
but who had since turned a Spiritualist, but he is no, better
Christian now; he never enters a church, and he has not
joined himself to any of the religious bodies. He never saw
anybody any the better for Spiritualism. He knew that every
Spiritualist finds that the spirits teach his own ideas of what
is right; a Calvinist, for instance, finds Galvanism in full
bloom in the other life. All these things are reflections from
the man’s own brain, and 
Mr. Bassett—You are wrong, sir. Allow me to contradict
that.
The President—Well, it is so as far I can learn. He then
continued that another fact was that the teachings do not
agree with each other. He thought that the true explanation
of much of this will be learnt when more is known about the
human brain. Physicians know what intangible phenomena
are presented by the brain, and what a difficult part of the
system it is to attempt to understand. God may find room
to construct a universe on the point of a needle, but man,
when he tries to follow these wonders, finds his powers too
feeble. Probably, spiritual manifestations will in time be
traced to brain force ; still, he must admit that Mr. Bassett
had stated things which the brain force theory does not ex¬
plain, and probably never will explain. He fully admitted
the phenomena to be true, and the imposture theory to have
no foundation ; even if people were discovered now and then
playing tricks at spirit circles, it proved nothing. The cha¬
racter of the witnesses was often beyond question, and they
had nothing to gain in the matter. It was true he did not
May 15, 1870
67
THE SPIRITUALIST.
know much of Mr. Bassett, still he was somewhat a judge of
character, and saw no reason for supposing he should state
to the meeting what was not true ; then, as to Mr. Collier, he
knew him well, and believed him most thoroughly. Brain
force and mesmerism will explain many of the facts, but not
all, and until a theory can be found to fit all of them, it is
the wisest plan to suspend judgment. (Applause.)
The proceedings then closed.
DR. J. R. NEWTON’S RECEPTION.
THE RESTORATION OF SIGHT TO THE BLIND—THE IMMEDIATE CURE OF A
DYING MAN LAST SUNDAY IN LIVERPOOL—AN ANEODOTE BY LORD
LYTTON—DR. NEWTON’S FIRST VISIT TO ENGLAND—OVERWHELMING
EVXDENOB AT PHILADELPHIA OF THE REALITY OF DR. NEWTON’S HEAL¬
ING POWERS—THE USE OF FARADAY’S DISCOVERIES—CURB OF PARA¬
LYSIS—THE LOVE OF THE SPIRITS TO MAN—MR. S. 0. HALL ON
SPIRITUALISM.
Last Thursday night a public reception was given to Dr.
J. R. Newton, the eminent American healing medium, at the
Assembly Rooms, Harley-street, Cavendish-square. The
meeting was in every respect a truly representative one, the
leading and most active workers in the movement in London
being present with scarcely an exception. The rooms were
well filled by the ladies and gentlemen present, who unani¬
mously invited Mr. Benjamin Coleman, of 1, Bernard-villas,
Upper Norwood, the convener of the meeting, to preside.
The President, in his opening remarks, stated the object
of the gathering, and informed Dr. Newton that those ladies
and gentlemen whom he chiefly recognised in the meeting
before him were, for the most part, Spiritualists who had no
hesitation in avowing their belief; the meeting also repre¬
sented all shades of opinion among Spiritualists, who had
met there on the common ground that “ man is a spirit, and
that he expects a future and progressive state of existence.”
Further than that, there might be differences of opinion on
various points, and it was not his duty on that occasion to
encourage discussion of religious subjects ; he believed, in
fact, that Spiritualism belonged to all religions. He knew
people of many religions who were Spiritualists, including
even Roman Catholic priests. Four contributions towards
the expenses of the present meeting came from clergymen of
the Church of England—one of them a vicar; Spiritualism,
therefore, does not mean any special creed; it means only
that man believes in a future state of existence. There were
also present a few who were not Spiritualists, and there was a
desire to help them in every possible way. There might be
one or two among these strangers who had come to scoff, who
desired to tell the world to-morrow that Dr. Newton is a very
peculiar man, and that his appearance is not that which they
would think worthy of commendation ; who also wished
to bring ridicule upon a subject which they did not
understand. The subject, however, was not one which should
be made a matter of indifference, and to obtain just
conceptions of it should be the desire of everybody. He
thought that outsiders should not place too much confidence
in men who knew nothing whatever of the subject. Of the
many phases which Spiritualism has exhibited, that of healing
is perhaps the greatest boon which has been given to man.
It is a gift which was practised by the Saviour and His apostles
and it has come down through all generations to the present
time. In Germany, Switzerland, France, England, and
America there have been at various times men who possessed
the power of healing. In America Dr. Newton stands pre¬
eminent for his healing powers, as proved by recorded facts
spread over the last seventeen years, and many of the cures
effected by him were of a very wonderful description. He
(Mr. Coleman) had himself heard in New York and Boston of
Dr. Newton’s powers in this respect. One gentleman had told
him of a case where Dr. Newton had restored sight to a blind
man, who had been unable to see for seven or eight years pre¬
viously, and who was cured by Dr. Newton in a few minutes.
Dr. Newton only arrived in Liverpool last Saturday, May 17th,
and on the following day, Sunday, he was asked to go and
see Mr. Ashley, of that town, who had been afflicted with a
very serious illness for some time, and Mr. Watson, who was
present at the meeting that evening, had given him the
following statement about what took place :—
“ Mr. Ashley, a retired merchant, has authorised me to give publicity to
the following facts:—Mr. Ashley resides at 5, Catherine-street, Liverpool.
On the 27th December last he was at Oxford and broke a blood-vessel in
the lungs—then in delicate health, and supposed to be consumptive. A
leading medical man, Mr. Freeborn, was called in, who prepared Mrs.
Ashley for the worst, and told her that there was no hope; that her
husband would go off in a rapid consumption, and none could say how
soon; he advised that he should not be removed to Liverpool, as his
strength was not equal to the journey. Mrs. Ashley prayed fervently for
Divine aid, that she might be comforted and directed according to her
trial, feeling assured that her husband would shortly depart—and turning
to her Bible, opened it at a venture, and found her finger, she knows not
how, on the text in St. John, where Jesus, speaking of Lazarus says, ‘ This
sickness is not a sickness unto death, but for the glory of the Lord.' From
that moment she felt assured that her husband would not die, and she told
Dr. Freebom her strong impression. Some little time after this Mr. Ashley
was removed to Liverpool on a bed fitted up in a railway carriage. For
nearly or about five months he was confined to his room, no one expecting
his recovery except his wife. Once Mr. Gardiner carried him like a child
down stairs, and had great difficulty in getting him back, and fears were
entertained that he would not recover the shock. Last Saturday, May 7th,
he was again taken with spitting of blood, and spat nearly a pint of blood
and mucus during the day and another during the night. Dr. Simmons
prepared Mrs. Ashley for the worst, and intimated that the great change
might take place at any moment. Last Sunday, the 8th of May, Dr. Newton
and myself went in a cab to Mr. Ashley’s, the Doctor went up-stairs to Mr.
Ashley’s sick room, requesting that none should follow but Mrs. Ashley. In
about five or six minutes, Dr. Newton brought Mr. Ashley down stairs, and
took him into the open air and said he was cured; he told him that he could
walk a mile and a half, which he urged him to do, and to eat a beef-steak
and drink a pint of ale for dinner,—although his doctor had fed him on
slops for the last five months. Mr. Ashley came to the evening service and
stood alone a considerable time, whilst Dr. Newton told the audience of the
case, which Mr. Ashley confirmed in all respects. Mr. and Mrs. Ashley
gave me this account yesterday (Monday), at their house, after Mr. Ashley
had been out, and eaten a mutton chop with pudding and ale, and after a
longish walk. To-day I called, and Mr. Ashley was in a sound and com¬
fortable sleep on the sofa, after a meat dinner, and ale, and a walk. Pre¬
vious to Dr. Newton’s seeing him, lit had not hten out of his bed for Jive
months."
This was a very good proof of Dr. Newton’s powers as a
healing medium, but he could not in that short address give
one-hundredth part of the cases on record, some of which
have taken place very recently. One gentleman, an American,
who came over to England with Dr. Newton, had told him
(Mr. Coleman) of a case of an individual who had lost the
sight of one eye, in consequence of a piece of steel getting
into it by accident; inflammation set in, and he lost the sight
of the other eye. Two years ago, the wife of the sufferer was
impressed, she did not know how, to induce her husband to
go with her to Montreal from New York, to visit Dr. Newton.
They arrived in Montreal as Dr. Newton was on the point of
leaving the town, and directly Dr. Newton saw the patient,
whose eyes were covered with a bandage, he told him that he
would do good to one of them, thereby showing a knowledge
that both of them were not in the same state. He then re¬
moved the bandage, and said, “ You can see, can’t you 1 ” and
although he had only been in the the room seven minutes, he
found that he could read small print. Mr. Watson, who was
present, could testify to the truth of the facts. In London
Dr. Newton would doubtless encounter plenty of opposition ;
if he does not succeed the medical profession will call him
a sharper, and if he does succeed they will call him a lunatic ;
they are sure to say that he is mad, because he has announced
his intention not to charge any fee to anybody during his stay
in England. He knew nothing personally of the actual prac¬
tice of Dr. Newton, but he was one of those who could accept
testimony, and in this case it came in such overwhelming pro¬
fusion that the facts could not be doubted. He did not believe
that Dr. Newton could cure everybody, nor indeed half of
those who called upon him, unless he saw it done ; but there
is no doubt that he can produce very wonderful cures, and
that he has a great work to do in this country. The Cui bono
of Spiritualism is often asked. This question is of more im¬
portance even than Spiritualism itself, and the circumstance
that power is given to some mediums to alleviate human
suffering, furnishes materials for a satisfactory answer.
Spiritualism is now progressing rapidly in all directions. He
would narrate an anecdote which was told him several years
ago by Lord Lytton ; it was not told originally under the seal
of secrecy, and it might be interesting to those present. Lord
Lytton said that some years ago he spent some little time in
Nice, with the intent! on of selecting a residence there, and while
walking in the neighbourhood of the town with a friend,
a chateau was pointed out to him, as a place which
would suit him very well if he could get it. The occupant,
the Chevalier D’ Arsoon* was reported in the neighbourhood
to be a great magician; he held himself aloof from all the
world, and was said to have discovered the philosopher’s
stone. Accordingly, Lord Lytton made his want of a house
an excuse for asking permission to call upon him, and an in¬
terview was the result. The remarkable owner of the man¬
sion had a Jewish countenance, was very reserved, and alto¬
gether lived the life of a recluse. He, however, received his
guest heartily, said that he was glad to see him, and told him
the reason why he did not answer his letter sooner was that
he never took any step of the kind without first consulting his
invisible guide, who, in this case, gave consent to the entrance
of Lord Lytton, together with permission to occupy the
chateau if he liked to do so. The guest then told him of the
rumours in the neighbourhood, and asked him about the
philosopher’s stone. The Chevalier laughed, and said that
the rumour was absurd; he knew that people were curious
about his private studies. Then he told Lord Lytton that he
had been brought up well, and had been the recipient of a
large fortune which he spent very quickly and very foolishly,
and when he was brought down nearly to his last shilling, a
“ voice ’’ from an invisible personage told him that if he
adopted the advice of the said unseen guide, his fortune would
be made once more. He was then advised by his monitor to
enter into certain commercial speculations. He did so, and
reaped a rich harvest. Lord Lytton accepted the terms and
took the chateau. The Chevalier D’Arsoon appeared to be a
believer in the transmigration of souls, and his daughter
certainly held that belief. Not long after the interview, the
reputed magician invited a large company to meet him at the
house where he had lived in seclusion so long, and he told his
guests that he had brought them together to explain his
history, and why he had not been able to mix with society.
He added that he had been informed by his guide that he was
about to quit his earthly life for seventeen years, that his bed
was to be made in the adjoining chapel, and that on the
following Friday night he should cease to live. He did die
on the following Friday, as indicated. Such was the story
told to him by Lord Lytton, and of course there were many
present who would not believe it. A lady who had lived at
Nice once told him that she did not believe it, as she had
never heard of the circumstances while there, but a little
while afterwards she wrote to him, saying that she had
made inquiries into the matter, and that the story was
quite true. Of course that statement did not vouch for the
waking up again—(laughter)—and he did not know whether
the seventeen years were up yet or not. These accurate pre¬
dictions of coming death, which are not uncommon, show
how the phenomena of Spiritualism crop up in various ways,
and the recovery of a lost commercial position by spirit aid,
shows how there is use in Spiritualism even in a worldly
sense.f Dr. Newton had told him that it was his intention to
stop six months in London, and to take a large house, wherein
he will receive all the afflicted who come to him for relief.
He thought that everybody would find Dr. Newton to be as
kindhearted and good a man as ever they met. He would
close his remarks by reading the following address, which it
was proposed to present to Dr. Newton :—
To Dr. J. JR. Newton, of Newport, Rhode Island.—It is our pleasant duty on
this occasion to give you a most cordial and hearty welcome, to express the
admiration with which your labours have inspired us, the fame of which is
not only wide-spread in your own land, but is familiar to all who are ac¬
quainted with the philosophy and literature of Spiritualism.
You have been the means of alleviating and removing human suffering,
and curing long-standing and terrible diseases, as is abundantly shewn in
public journals and records, and as thousands who have received the bene¬
fit of your treatment have testified and are willing to testify. We appre¬
ciate these great services which, to the poor, have been rendered freely,
“without money and without price,” and we anticipate with the most lively
satisfaction the prospect of a similar good work being effected amongst
ourselves through your instrumentality. We know that this is the hope
and purpose which has prompted your visit amongst us. God grant that
you may meet with a full measure of success in this your high and noble
mission in our land. Most deeply do we sympathise with you and appre¬
ciate your aims, and desire, as far as we may, to aid and co-operate with-
you in their prosecution. Your long and honourable career has forcibly
illustrated, beyond all cavil, the practical and beneficent character of
Spiritualism, which, like your own kindly feelings and generous efforts,
knows no distinction of class, sect, or creed; but recognises in every man
a brother, and especially delights in the relief of suffering humanity.
Those of us who are honoured with your personal friendship desire fur¬
ther to express our high respect for your private worth no less than great
public usefulness; and we are sure that we express not only our own feel¬
ings, but those of many, very many, who are unavoidably absent, in assuring
you of our sincere and grateful feelings toward you, and that you have our
best wishes for the success of your humane aud generous purpose.
May God and the good angels speed you on your way.
Signed on the behalf of the meeting,
Benjamin Coleman,
London, May 12th, 1870. Chairman.
At the request of the Chairman the auditory expressed their
approval of this address, by standing up simultaneously.
* This name is spelt as pronounced, but may not be literally correct.
t Experience in America shows that in the majority of cases where
people follow up Spiritualism from nothing but worldly and commercial
motives, they are misled, and reap nothing but ruin and trouble. We have
been told by a Californian Spiritualist how some Californian golddiggers
consisted the spirits, who told them where to dig, and what they would cut
through before reaching the gold. They found all the statements true, ex¬
cept the last, for after performing the work they found no gold to reward
their efforts, and at last the light dawned upon them that spirits do not
primarily come to earth to aid men in such matters. In some oases where
such aid has not been sought, it has been given. We could give several
authenticated cases.—Ed.
Mr. Thomas Shorter said that he had had the good fortune
to make the acquaintance of Dr. Newton on the occasion of
his first visit to this country in the autumn of 1864. He was
then deeply impressed with the singular simplicity and gentle¬
ness of character, and with the ingenuousness which he mani¬
fested. Little previous notice had been given of his arrival,
so that there were few to meet him, or to hold out the hand
of welcome. However, Dr. Newton, a genuine man, with a
high sense of duty, was not easily disconcerted, and his first'
reception had not prevented him from paying another visit to
England, under happier auspices. He did not say these things
out of compliment, for he thought that the large-heartedness
of Dr. Newton had much to do with his success as a healing
medium. Since 1864 the position of Spiritualism in Eng¬
land has changed very much for the better; public opinion on
the subject has grown and ripened ; publications and books
have multiplied, platform and press have aided the movement,
and societies and individuals have been stimulated to investi¬
gate. To-night, instead of the few friends who welcomed
Dr. Newton on his first visit, he was glad to see so goodly
an assemblage. He trusted that the work which Dr. Newton
had begun so well in Liverpool would be continued in London,
and that he would be as successful in curing disease in
England as he had been in America. Here, in England, we
are still engaged in what may be called “the battle of the
evidences.” We are extending our lines, and dislodging the
enemy from his earthworks of stolidity and ignorance ; there
is also springing up in our midst a deeper desire to show not
only the truth of Spiritualism, but its good, and its practical
value. This may be done in various ways, not only by
appealing to the primary convictions upon which all religious
truth must rest, but in those things which come home to our
palpable and immediate interests—to those things which deal
with the sufferings of humanity—such for instance as the
power possessed by Dr. Newton of curing many diseases-with¬
out physic and pill-boxes. The majority of mankind believe
that nobody can be cured without a rush to the apothecary, for
there is a medical orthodoxy as well as a religious orthodoxy;
such people set their faces against all novel blessings, and would
much rather that a man should be respectably killed, than be
cured by an unlicensed practitioner. (Laughter and applause.)
It is singular that people who profess to be Christians, and
who say that they believe that curing by laying on of hands
was practised by their great Teacher, should be scornful and
incredulous, when such things are said to be amongst us at
the present day. (Applause.) History knows of no line of
distinction between apostolic times and our own, and there
are instances of the healing powers possessed by individuals
all down the whole series of Christian records; there are such
instances in plenty in the history of France, Switzerland,
England, and other European nations, as well as in America,
but one of the most distinguished and successful of healing
mediums was their guest of that evening., He would refer to
one proof of a well known and established character. While
Dr. Newton was in Philadelphia he was much persecuted by
the medical profession for curing diseases without a license,
and he was brought before a local tribunal on various frivolous
pretexts ; the result was that the court, with all its entrances,
was thronged with about 1,500 people, who came forward, un¬
solicited, to give evidence of the genuine character and
reality of the cures which Dr. Newton had effected. Thus
the prosecution was made perfectly harmless and power¬
less. He would refer to one other case much nearer
home. The Revd. F. Rowland Young, pastor of the Free
Christian Church, Swindon, was not only a preacher of the
Gospel, but a believer in it, for he believed in the power of
healing by the laying on of hands, as narrated therein. He
had been afflicted for many years with neuralgia, and physi¬
cians could do nothing to give him ease, so he went on
purpose all the way from England to the United States to see
Dr. Newton, who cured him at once, and not only did he do
so, but Mr. Young acquired in consequence some of the same
healing powers. He (Mr. Shorter) had recently been to
Swindon to see Mr. Young, and met there with a poor woman
who told him how she had lost the use of her eyesight for
many years, and had been cured by Mr. Young after his return
from America. Whether Dr. Newton would be as successful
in England as in America he could not say. The materialism
of the people makes the conditions unfavourable, mentally,
physically, and spiritually—all the more credit to Dr. Newton,
who, in the face of these repellent influences, has ventured to
come amongst us. The least we can do is to acknowledge
his great kindness in coming amongst us and doing his best,
inespective of all considerations of sect, country, party, or
creed. He was sure that Dr. Newton’s endeavours would
meet with a hearty and ready response. He was sure that
he only expressed the fervent wishes of the meeting when he
expressed to Dr. Newton the warm interest which all present
took in his work, and how they all wished him “ God speed! ”
(Applause.)
Mr. Tebb spoke in favour of the address, and expressed his
pleasure at seeing such an audience present. He said that it
had been related of Faraday that when he made any new dis¬
covery, he would go about explaining its nature with great
delight to his friends, which delight they very often could not
appreciate. They often said “ What is the use of it ? ” and his
reply was, “Wait, and we will find some use for it.’’ If the
phenomena of Spiritualism were confined to table motions and
raps, there might be some difficulty in answering questions as
to its use, but when it is seen how certain mediums, like
Dr. Newton, have the power of healing, whilst others, like
Mrs. Hardinge, have the power of inspirational speaking; and
others again, like Mr. Shepard, have the gift of music, there
is no difficulty in giving satisfactory proof that Spiritualism
is a good unquestionable. He thought that they were much
indebted to the early supporters of the cause of Spiritualism—
tc! such men as Judge Edmonds, Governor Tallmadge, Pro¬
fessor Hare, Professor Mapes, and many others who have
devoted their lives, their reputations, and all that they possess,
to the cause, and who have suffered what all must suffer, who
attach themselves to unpopular truths. He thought that
Spiritualism was the only solvent of the pernicious materialism
of the philosophical world, and of the Protestant churches.
As truth, when once accepted, cannot be withdrawn from a
nation, any more than political freedom when once it has been
enjoyed, so Spiritualism—with its kindly manifestations, with
its reverence for the oldest, as well as its welcome to the
newest—is our inheritance for ever.
At this point a noisy personage in the rear of the audience
made attempts to interrupt the order of the proceedings, but
the audience supported the Chairman in the request that he
should “ be quiet,” and he subsided accordingly.
Mr. J. M. Peebles said that he felt some embarrassment in
making any remarks, as that was a meeting of noble-hearted
Englishmen to welcome a distinguished friend of his own
from America. He was exceedingly happy to be in their
midst, and especially to be upon that platform alongside a
68
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 15, 1870
friend and a brother, whom he had known, loved, and
respected for many years. He thought that if more
Americans would visit England to see its ruins, its
paintings, and its libraries, and if more Englishmen would
visit America, it would lengthen the chain of friendship
and baptize with peace and goodwill the hearts of
all those who speak the English language. Truly it is often
asked, “What does Spiritualism do?” It gives demonstra¬
tion of a future existence, for even now clear-headed men
often ask the question, “ If a man die, shall he live again ? ”
Once upon a time, he, as a minister, attended a funeral in
the town where his friend Mr. Watson, then upon the plat¬
form, came from. It was an only child. His text was
“ Suffer little children to come unto Me, and forbid them not
for of such is the kingdom of heaven.” The whole of his
sermon was about “ faith,” but as the mother baptized the
coffin with her tears, she turned and said to him, “ Tell me
what you know about the immortal world, my aching heart
seeks for more than faith—for knowledge.” She added “ Tell
me what you know of that world; shall I know my child ?
Will my child know me ? ’’—and he mas dumb. But now,
since he had talked with the angels, and heard their
lute-like voices, he no longer talked about “ faith,” for now
“ We know that we have a house eternal in the heavens.”
The truths of Spiritualism teach us therefore that there is an
immortal life beyond the tomb. Spiritualism is spreading to
the ends of the earth. He had found its phenomena in
Smyrna, in Constantinople, in Athens, and upon the Pacific
coasts; in fact wherever thinking men are found, there is
this living truth proclaimed. He knew much of Dr. Newton,
for hundreds had clasped his hands who had been healed by
him. If he tried to pick out solitary instances from
among the large number, it was like trying to select some
specially bright star from the thousands in the midnight
heavens. In Buffalo several years ago, he was present at the
house of Dr. Newton, when a gentleman was brought in upon
his bed, who for years had had paralysis ; Dr. Newton looked
at him, simply laid his hands upon him and said, “ Disease, I
bid you depart. Arise., you are well,”, and the man left the
bed and crossed the room, then stood before Dr. Newton
weeping with joy. “ Stop,” said Dr. Newton, “ It is not
I; it is the spirit power of which I am but the humble
instrument.” On another occasion a lady could not get
near him, and Dr. Newton’s spirits impressed him to say,
f It does not matter, she is well,” and she was cured. He
had cured the lame, the dumb, and the blind, and did not
Jesus say that these signs should follow those who believe?
If his hearers would lead more of the Christ life, and not be
so scheming, and artful, and worldly—if they would go about
doing good and would lead pure lives, so surely as God’s
words are true, would they receive some of the wonderful
gifts which were given to the Apostles. For at least 300
years after the time of Christ, visions^ and trances, and won¬
derful healing gifts were known in the Church, but when,
under Constantine, religion became national, and pride was
introduced, the angels left it. What- is wanted is • a life
more devoted to the principles of Spiritualism. Mrs. Har-
dinge stands at the head of American inspirational speakers,
and Dr. Newton stands at the head of all the healing
mediums connected with the movement. Before him
disease departs, and when it does not depart at once it
sometimes departs very shortly afterwards, because of its
cause being removed—a stream will flow for a little time after
its sources of supply have been cut off. He had great faith in
Dr. Newton’s cures, far more faith than expressed by some of
those who had spoken before him, because he had seen more
of Dr. Newton’s works than they had. He blessed his Father
God, that such men were to be raised up, not for selfish objects,
but to remove disease, and to help men and women on their
way to these holier plains of beauty, love, and truth. He
knew that Dr. Newton would nobly do his work, and that he
would be blessed by God and His holy angels ; he trusted that
all present would extend to him love and warmth of soul.
Personally, the more time he spent in England, the better he
could comprehend and love Englishmen, and he wished to
bespeak for Dr. Newton cordial welcomes and greetings while
he remains in the country. (Applause).
Dr. J. R. Newton then rose amid loud and continued
applause. He spoke under spirit influence, with slowness and
frequent pauses, and he said that he felt overwhelmed by the
cordial welcome. He stood before them as a plain man, and
felt like a little child. He was a practical Christian, and was
ready at any time to make a sacrifice of himself for the sake
of Christianity. It was a wonder to him that few men ever
try to live daily as Jesus lived. When he became moral and
perfectly Christian in his life, the spiritual powers were
showered upon him, and this was as wonderful to himself as
to those whom he addressed. He believed in spirit communion
and he knew the names of some of the spirits who controlled
him in the exercise of his gifts. Jesus said, “ A new com¬
mandment I give unto you, embracing all the law and
the prophets, that ye love one another,’’ and that was the
advice which he gave to those before him. He loved every
man, woman, and child as much as he loved his own children,
not that he loved his own children less, but because he loved
mankind at large more. Men and women should all do the
best they can, for it is by good works alone they will
receive their reward ; everybody should be kind and loving.
He felt that he loved all, that he loved everybody in that
assembly, and as to the power of healing, it is merely an illus¬
tration of the power of love. When any sick person comes
before him, he laid his hands on that person and felt that he
loved him, and if the patient were not antagonistic, he was
almost sure to be healed ; he told them that he loved them,
and when this opened their hearts to him the disease must
depart. True religion is very simple, plain, and easy. He
made no profession to be a public speaker, for there before
them he was entirely under the control of the spirits, and
what he was then speaking was spirit. At the time of his
birth a tree of life was planted, since then it had been
growing in all its beauty, and it blossomed that night. It is
a tree for the healing of the nations ; its fragrance is great,
and the atmosphere around it is bright, and all nations are
directed to it. In the bright spirit land to which we all shall
go, there are houses, and trees, and birds, just as there are
here, and to this beautiful tree the birds of all nations fly, and
legions of spirits fly to see this beautiful tree.* He would
give a few lines of poetry as they were given to him by the
spirits:—
This beautiful tree is the Tree of Life,
It is for all nations free,
It’s leaves are a halm for every wound,
And it blossoms, dear ones, for thee.
* A possible explanation of the beautiful symbolical illustrations often
contained in the higher spirit communications, will be found in Mrs. De
Morgan’s book From Matter to Spirit: Longmans.
This power of healing the nations applies not only to the
ills of the physical body, but it will help to heal such every
breach among nations, such, for instance, as that caused by
the Alabama case. He could not say that he had come to
England at any sacrifice, because he believed it to be the
will of his Father that he should come. He always lived as
if each moment were his last upon earth, and for the last ten
years he had not done or said anything that he was sorry for.
He did not come to London to make money, and he would
receive rich and poor alike; he purposed to hire a house, per¬
haps in the course of this week, and next Sunday evening
[to-night] he would be at the lecture of Brother Peebles’ at
the Cavendish Rooms, Mortimer-street, where he would give
more information than he could do at that moment. The
welcome he had received prevented him from speaking as
freely as he wished to do. He had much to #ay, but he felt
overwhelmed at the reception. He was heart and soul with
them. Love is a positive substance; he felt it; and
those present might feel it as well as himself. If
anybody listening to him had a pain it was now gone,
and he believed it to be just as easy to heal many
as to heal one. It was done partly by his own will and partly
by spirit power. He knew that Jesus was with him, and
so were many other beautiful spirits like unto Him ; we
should love all the spirits, as well as all humanity ; we are all
brothers and sisters, and should love each other. It was not
a matter of belief with him that spirits controlled him—it was
knowledge.. Pythagoras, Socrates, and Plato walk the earth
to-day, and so do all the great and good men who have gone
before us. He (Dr. Newton) was forty-nine years old, yet he
was only twenty-one, (laughter), he was blessed with per-
p.etnal youth ; he never had any pain, and if he did not look
in the glass, he should hardly know that he was so old. A
short time ago he met a little boy, fourteen years old, who was
a seeing medium, and he said to him, “ Your hair is dark, and
parted in the middle, it hangs down on your shoulders.” Mr.
Watson was present at the time. The boy’s remark was true,
and he knew perfectly well how he should look as a spirit.
He would meet them again next Sunday,'and gave them many
thanks and blessings for their kind attentions. (Applause.)
Mr. J. M. Peebles then rose and proposed a vote of thanks
to the Chairman. He said that he knew that before Dr. New¬
ton had been long in London, people would say that he was
insane ; Dr. Newton, as of old, would enjoy this very much,
and he (Mr. Peebles) would enjoy it too. This much is true,
that Dr. Newton is almost continually under a strong spirit
influx from the next world, and sometimes it is so strong that
mediums are raised into a higher state by the mere touch of
his hands. People who do not know that they are mediums
sometimes find that they have mediumstic powers after they
have been a short time in his presence. Dr. Newton’s advice
was good, and as Jesus once said, “ By this shall all men
know that ye are My disciples, if ye have love one for another.”
He had much pleasure in proposing a vote of thanks to Mr.
Coleman, who had presided over the meeting with so much
ability.
Dr. Evans said that the power of healing was great but
that the power of prevention was greater. To the Lord Jesus
was given the power of healing the bodies of mankind, but
if men would live up to the true principles of Spiritualism
they would have no disease. In time every man must submit
to the Divine power, and to Christ at the head of the divine
power ; those who do not submit will go into judgment, and
be punished.
Mb. Shoeteb put the vote to the meeting, and those pre¬
sent responded by rising from their seats.
The President gave a brief acknowledgement of the vote of
thanks which had been passed. He said that he well re¬
membered when he first had the pleasure of introducing Mrs.
Emma Hardinge to them in that room, and how her talents
were so greatly appreciated, that the purposes for which the
rooms had originally been taken were put on one side to listen
to her lectures. He regretted that she was not there, but
was very pleased to see that her mother was present.- He
hoped that her mother Would convey to Mrs. Hardinge the
feeling of the meeting towards her, and say how they hoped
that she would shortly return to this country. Mr. Hardinge’s
History of. American Spiritualism is one of the most valuable
books ever contributed to the literature of the subject. Those
who know nothing of the subject will find it to be a complete
history of Spiritualism in America. Mr. Shorter had said
that Dr. Newton was an “ unqualified practitioner,” but it
might be as well to state that he had taken out a certificate
in America as a qualified M.D., although doubtless he would
throw all medicine into the sea, were it not for a kindly
feeling towards the fishes. (Laughter.) He took out the
degree to save himself from persecution in the courts.
Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A., Editor of the Art Journal, said
that before the meeting closed he should like to say a few
words. He came there with no intention to make a speech,
but he should like to say a few words of congratulation to Dr.
Newton. He believed that he expressed the sentiments of all
Spiritualists when he said that it was their desire to give a
cordial greeting to all Americans; and that it is a great duty to
bring Americans and Englishmen closer together, that they
may understand each other better than they have hitherto
done. (Applause.) They bad all seen great manifestations
of Spiritualism, and he thought that they were all impressed
with, not the belief, but the knowledge that Spiritualism is
an accomplished fact, and he should not have risen at all, ex¬
cept to call attention to one point. He wanted to tell Dr.
Newton that great progress is being made in this country
among great men, and great thinkers, and men who will be¬
come great authorities. He rejoiced to tell him that a
society the other day called witnesses before them, and made
clear and close inquiry ; that that society is about to send
forth a report which will do much good among outsiders,
for he heard that they would bear, testimony that the asser¬
tions of fraud and delusion in connection with this subject
must be put aside for ever. (Applause.) Thus two
enemies of Spiritualism will be entirely removed out of
the way. Then those who know that there is no fraud or de¬
lusion will find it a comparatively easy task to spread convic¬
tion as to its truth. He believed that truth to be essential
to national happiness, and to dispel those doubts which afflict
the intellectual portion of society more than any other, as to
the reality of a continued existence in a higher and holier
state. He believed that the great source of human happiness
was embodied in the teaching “Love one another.” He
trusted that all present agreed with him that their course is
much easier now than it was three or four years ago, when
they first met in that room. He believed that the report of
the society would go far towards the removal of the chief
obstacles in the path of Spiritualism, and that it would make
it easier to help on our divine belief. They would then be,
he trusted, the humble instruments in God’s hands of destroy¬
ing the Materialism of the present age, for this he considered
to be the great purpose of Spiritualism, and that God’s reve¬
lation has one great object at present—that of convincing
man that there is an hereafter, and that although the body
which we see will become dust, the spirit which inhabits it
will be lifted into a higher sphere, where there is eternal pro¬
gression ; also that there are as many states above man as
there are conditions below him. (Applause.) He himself had
full knowledge of the truth of Spiritualism, and he hoped that
many who were not Spiritualists would take his testimony as
worth something when he expressed that certainty of belief.
The more Spiritualism has been inquired into the more its
truth has been exhibited ; he thanked God for having given
opportunities of proving that which they knew and believed.-
Dr. Newton has reached London at a good time, with less
difficulties than of old to encounter, and with less probability
of being considered mad or dishonest. (Applause.)
The business part of the meeting then came to a close, and
it assumed the character of a conversazione. Miss Katherine
Poynts and Mr. Maltby favoured the company with some
singing, and Mr. D. D. Home gave two recitations in a high-
class style; the subject of the first one was “ Jane Con¬
quest,” and of the second “ Widow Bedott.” The latter caused
much amusement. Mr. S. C. Hall spoke of the duty on the
part of Spiritualists of rallying round Mr. D. D. Home, and
supporting him well in his public readings, remembering that
in this way he was working most honourably for a living, and
that he never had taken and never would take a single farthing
from anybody for the privilege of witnessing those wonderful
manifestations which take place in his presence.
The refreshment department was well patronised ; in fact,
all the arrangements were well planned and neatly executed,
proving that there is nothing to equal a “ committee of one”
to execute good work, when that one person is competent to
perform the duties he undertakes.
Among the representative Spiritualists present at this
meeting was Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S.
PRIYATE SEANCES.
MR. PEARCE’S CIRCLE—DEDICATION OF CHILDREN TO THE CARE OF GUARDIAN
SPIRITS—A FAMILY CIRCLE UNBROKEN BY DEATH.
On Good Friday, the 16th April, many friends met at the
house of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Pearce, 19, Hargwyne-street,
South Stockwell; for the purpose of assisting in the dedi¬
cation of their children to the loving care of their angel
guardians. The party consisted of Mr. C. W. Pearce, Mrs.
Mary Pearce, Mr. J. M. Peebles, Mr. and Mrs. Everitt, Mr.
A. C. Swinton, Mr. N. F. T. Daw, Miss Shaw, Mr. and Mrs.
Richard Pearce, Mrs. Maggs, and Mr. Harrison.
Amongst the spirits known to be present were—Edward N.
Dennys (author of The Alpha, and of a course of twenty-five
lectures, edited by Mr. A. C. Swinton, now in the hands of
Mr. Ji Burns, for publication); Tien Sien Tie, the Chinese
philosopher, who instructs Mr. Morse; Annie Blore, the
guardian of Mrs. Everitt; John Watt, who controls her circle,
and some of his friends ; Powhattan, an Indian friend of J.
M. Peebles; Robert Shaw, late of 5, Cambridge-road, Kil-
burn; Mary Swinton, mother of Mr. A. C. Swinton ; Richard,
Susanna, Richard, and Nahar Gill, grandfather, grandmother,
uncle, and brother of Mary Pearce ; John and Martha Bream,
grandfather and grandmother (on mother’s side), and Sarah
Pearce, grandmother (on father’s side) to Mr. Charles Pearce;
also, Frederick Pearce, his uncle; Clara, his sister; and
Florence Mary, a daughter, who about three years since ex¬
changed the earthly life for the higher existence; Felix, an
eastern sage, who frequently visits the circle of Mr. and Mrs.
Pearce. There were present likewise many others, friends of
the above, who accompanied them, to witness the dedication.
Mr. J. M. Peebles conducted the proceedings, which were
very touching and interesting in their character. The friends
present were arranged in a half circle form, and Mr. Peebles
was between the poles.
After reading an appropriate passage from the Bible a
hymn was sung and an aspirational prayer to the Almighty
was offered, in which was recognised the indivisable oneness
of the whole human family, whether found upon this or any
other world in the boundless domain of the universal Father.
Then, taking Edward, the eldest, Mr. Peebles placed his
right hand upon his head, and with his left uplifted com¬
mended him to the tender care of his loving friends above,
who signified their acceptance of the charge by loud “ raps.”
Then Mr. Peebles was inspired, in feeling language, to ac¬
knowledge the love which brought Florence Mary, the second
child (for nearly three years a resident in the Spirit land) to
join in the ceremony, that the family circle might be complete.
Annie Martha, a bright-eyed, rosy-cheeked girl, between three
and four years of age, was then taken and in the same manner
offered, and accepted. Next, Bertie, a boy of two years,
went from his pother’s arms into Mr. Peeble’s, and nestled
there, as if sensible of the o’ershadowing influence of the
angel band who took him into their society; last, Ernest, a
babe of four weeks, apparently unconcious of external sur¬
roundings, was dedicated to those whose faithful love will
follow him and his brethren until united with them above.
This is the first time that any dedication analagous in some
few respects to a “christening” ceremony, has taken place
within the ranks of English Spiritualists.
The Liverpool Mercnry of last Tuesday has a long article
about the cures effected by Dr. Newton in Liverpool last
Sunday and Monday.
Spiritual Periodicals.—An idea is prevalent • that it
is the intention to bring out a weekly paper in connection
with this journal. This supposition has no foundation what¬
ever, for the notice recently given of the securing of the copy¬
right of The Spiritual News refers only to a little journal
which will be brought out once a month in the next London
season, that subscribers may not have to wait a whole month
for news. If any subscribers have had any difficulty in get¬
ting the Spiritualist they should write to the publisher;
from the first it has been brought out punctually on the day
of publication, and any delay in receipt is not due to the
London agents.
The Transmission oe Messages bt Spirits.—With re¬
ference to the article on this subject in our last, wherein
“ a black spirit named Zambia,” appeared at the same hour to
some Spiritualists in England, and to some Spiritualists on
board a ship on its way to New Zealand, it further appears on
comparing the records made by Mr. Everitt and Mr. Meers,
that Zambia told both of them that “ although he had a black
skin, he had a white heart.” This still further completes the
chain of evidence. When by research more is known of the
conditions necessary to enable spirits to communicate, may it
not be possible to increase the precision with which messages
are given ?
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 15, 1870.
CHARGES FOR ADVERTISEMENTS.
1. Advertisements of Public Companies, Half-a-guinea per sixth of a
folumn, or every portion of sixth of a column.
2. General Advertisements, Five Shillings per twelfth of a column, or
portion of twelfth of a column.
Note.—Advertisements at the foregoing rates willbe ,t displayed” so as
to occupy the full space paid for, but advertisements at the following rates
will be in closely set type:—
3. General Advertisements, Balf-a-crown per first five lines or portion of
five lines, and Fourpence for every line in addition.
4. Situations Wanted, or Apartments to Let, One Shilling per first four
lines, or portion of four lines; Threepence for every line in addition.
Ten words are allowed to the line, and six figures or initial letters count
us one word.
When five or more insertions of the same advertisement are paid for,
twenty per cent, reduction will be made in the above rates.
The power is reserved of refusing to insert any advertisement.
Advertisements and remittances should be sent to the Publisher, Mr.
E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's Church-yard, London, E.C.
C0 C-oraspnixeitts.
All letters should be brief and to the point, as the amount of space avail¬
able for correspondence is at present small.
Communications intended for the Editor should be by letter only, ad¬
dressed to the care of the Publisher, Mr. E. W. Allbn, Ave Maria-lane, St.
Paul's Church-yard, London, E. C. Until the Spiritual movement in Eng¬
land, together with this journal, have both grown considerably, time cannot
be spared for personal interviews on subjects connected with the literary
work of The Spiritualist, but all letters will meet with careful considera¬
tion.
The Spiritualist is a periodical intended to give great freedom of ex¬
pression to all the different shades of opinion to be found among Spiri¬
tualists. There will therefore be very little uniformity in the ideas pro¬
mulgated in this journal, more especially in the correspondence columns.
Under these circumstances every reader will find occasionally something
in The Spiritualist which he or she does not like, but the right of reply
remains. This freedom of thought given to others, the Editor claims for
himself, and those who do not like the contents of leading articles can write
against them in the correspondence columns. This plan is thought better
than that of reducing the contents of the journal to a pale weak mediocrity,
by inserting only those contributions whichplease everybody. The preceding
remarks are not intended to imply that those who have crotchets which they
cannot get printed anywhere else, can find an outlet for them here, for none
but those letters which are considered worth publication will be inserted.
Notices of Public Meetings in connection jvith Spiritualism should be
sent to the office several days in adance.
Cfl Sub-sorites.
The first twelve numbers of The Spiritualist will be forwarded regularly
by penny post to subscribers, who remit four shillings in payment to Mr.
E. W. Allen, Publisher, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul's-churchyard, E.C.
No notice will be taken of orders received y/naccompanied by a remittance.
When the day of issue chances to fall upon a Sunday, this journal will
be published on the preceding Saturday.
SUNDAY, MAY 15, 1870.
SEEING MEDITJMSHIP.
When the knowledge is gained that spiritual mani¬
festations are real, intelligent investigators usually
attempt to learn something about the principles which
produce them. Evidence is soon obtained that the com¬
munications are much coloured, as a rule, both by the
mind of the medium, and by the tendencies of the
thoughts of the members of the circle, although an in¬
dependent intelligence is at work foreign to both. The
thing required to he known is the message of the com¬
municating spirit in its original purity, free from the
colouring it has undergone in traversing that wide and
deep chasm of the grave, which our friends on the other
side are working so hard to bridge over.
Eor this reason it is necessary that the amount of
error introduced by the transmitting instrument shall
be known. In the endeavour to eliminate this source of
unreliability, we once attempted to question the spirits
at all circles as to how they produced the manifesta¬
tions, but a very great expenditure of time at this work
produced very meagre results, for the simple reason that
other persons at spirit circles had their own questions to
put upon other subjects, and the time of those present
could not he monopolised to carry out the views of any
one individual. As it is only possible at miscellaneous
circles to put questions of this nature at rare intervals,
we hit upon the plan of getting different seeing mediums
to watch how the manifestations were produced, and to
note all the particulars. To begin with the alphabet of
the phenomena, they were first asked to give especial
attention to the common table tiltings.
The result was a most complicated mass of contradic¬
tions. One medium saw arrangements below the
table, and spirit hands, by means of intermediate con¬
trivances, forcing up the table from below. Another
saw spirit hands touching the table from above, and
moving it by a lifting process. Another saw a spirit
floating above the table, and every time the spirit raised
and depressed her hand the table rose and fell, whilst a
stream of blue light seemed to connect the hand with
the table. A fourth saw a luminous cone above the
table. Andrew Jackson Davis corroborates this state¬
ment to some extent, for he says that he has seen a
luminous cord stretching from the table to a band of
spirits seventy or eighty miles above the house, which
cord widened into a cone before it touched the table.
Another seer, again, said that he saw the communicat¬
ing spirit with his hands on the shoulders of the
medium, and moving the table by the exercise of his
will. Amid all these disheartening contradictions two
facts stood their ground most firmly. In the first
place, the table did actually move in the presence of
many witnesses, without the intervention of imposture;
in the second place, seeing mediums did actually some¬
times see spirits so as to be able to describe departed
friends in a recognisable way to strangers whom the
mediums had never seen before.
After following up this method of research for some
time, somewhat conclusive evidence was obtained that
the majority of seeing mediums have their organs of
sight acted upon by independent spirits, and what the
spirits wish them to see they actually do see, just as a
biological lecturer can make his sensitives see what he
chooses. Should this explanation be true, it follows
that communications through seeing mediums may be
reliable or unreliable, and must be subjected to the test
of reason, just the same as messages received by tilts or
raps. Mrs. De Morgan narrates how the spirits told
her that seeing manifestations are produced by a spirit
standing near the medium, and that what the spirit
thinks the medium sees. We once mentioned all these
circumstances to Mr. Peebles, because his long experi¬
ence of spiritual manifestations in America makes his
testimony of value. He said that in the majority of
cases spirits make the medium see what they choose,
but some mediums have the power of independent spirit
vision. Such independent and reliable seers may be
distinguished from others, because they have the power
of seeing spirits at all times, and look upon their neigh¬
bours with pity as half-blind individuals, because they
cannot see their departed friends. The ordinary seeing
medium can only see now and then, when his clair¬
voyant powers are temporarily developed at a spirit
circle or elsewhere, and then what he sees is probably
under the control of his attendant spirits.
Should these ideas be correct, it follows that many of
the things observed by seeing mediums are not actual
facts, but mental impressions; that the communications
made by means of their organs of sight may be truthful
or untruthful, and must be subjected to the test of
reason and common sense before they can be accepted
either as truths or falsehoods. A low spirit, for in¬
stance, may make the medium under his control see
demoniacal-looking beings round some particular per¬
son, and thus raise h repulsion in the mind of the
medium towards the society of that individual. In
this hypothetical case an untruthful idea is communi¬
cated by seeing mediumship, just as effectually as by a
deliberately false message spelt out by raps.
In the first experiences of mediums which have been
recorded in these pages, it will be noticed that at the
outset the communicating influences were very fre¬
quently of an unpleasant nature, but that a gradual im¬
provement took place. The first stages of seeing-
mediumship are sometimes unpleasant, probably be¬
cause an undeveloped spirit makes the medium see re¬
pulsive ^things. When a case of this kind appears
among those who know nothing of the phenomena of
Spiritualism, the doctors of course are called in. They
find the patient perfectly sane on all subjects but one.
“ I see these things,” says the patient. “ You do not
see them,” say the doctors. “But I do see them,”
reiterates the patient. Whereupon the doctors sign a
certificate, the medium is sent to the nearest lunatic
asylum: there, worse psychological influences than
were in the home of the parents or friends surround
the patient, who is very shortly driven mad by them in
real earnest, in consequence of want of knowledge of
these subjects among members of the medical profes¬
sion. When a case of a similar nature occurs among
Spiritualists, the patient is taken to a spirit circle
where there are good influences and a powerful well-
developed medium. Here the unseen individual who
caused all the trouble is usually sent about his business
or taught better by the higher influences, and the
freed medium learns something of the bright side of the
gift of seeing-mediumship, which, in time, permits him
to see and communicate with friends and relatives on
the other side of the grave, to the satisfaction of obser¬
vant individuals who will carefully investigate such
cases. The liberated medium should then take care to
lead such a life as to offer no attraction to spirits like
the one who first annoyed him, and not to live with re¬
latives or people who are surrounded by spirits of a
malicious or revengeful nature, because his sensitive or¬
ganization renders him liable to a possible return of
the persecution.
Halifax Psychological Society.—At a social meeting
of this Society on Good Friday, about sixty Spiritualists
sat down to tea, and afterwards gave attention to some of the
business of the society, as well as to a few songs, recitations,
‘and glees. Mr. Henry Ambler, president, occupied the chair.
A good inspirational address also was given through the
mediumship of Mr. Wood. On the following Sunday, at a
gathering of the Halifax Spiritualists, an interesting address
was given through the trance mediumship of Mr. Wood to an
crowded audience. Subject, “He shall go in the spiritual
power of Elias.”
Spirit Messages.—The Banner of Light, of April 30th,
1870, contains the following message, given through the
mediumship of Mrs. J. H. Conant, 158, Washington-street,
Boston, United States :—“ I suppose my friends will not have
heard of my death. But we encountered a gale three days out
from Newcastle, England, and were lost. We were bound for
New York. [Was the vessel and all lost ?] Yes, all I know
of. I am William Benson. I have a family in Liverpool, and
I want to send some word that I can come back, and that this
life where I am is not so much separated from the earth-life
after all. It was the ship Myra. Say that I want to talk—not
here again, but there if I can. [You wish to go to some medium
there through whom you can speak.] Yes. I was thirty-one years
old. Say we went easy, and they must not mourn.—Feb. 21.”
The same paper of April 23rd, contains the following message
to Miss Houghton, of 20, Delamere-crescent, Paddington, W.; it
was given through the same medium, but by writing instead
of by trance speaking :—“My beloved sister, I rejoice to be
able to return testifying to the truth of your beautiful faith,
in which I could not believe when on the earth. Oh! bear
for me my blessing to my dear wife and children, and say I
will not rest until I have given them some light. I have met
your friend, Miss Elizabeth V. Ingram, here in America, and
she has kindly called me to return to those I love. Georgiana,
forgive me if I could not understand you, and have patience
with my dear ones, and believe me to be ever near to aid you.
Clarence Houghton, to Georgiana Houghton, London, Eng¬
land, February 17.”
Services in the Cavendish Rooms. — The Sunday
evening meetings in the Cavendish Booms have been con¬
tinued as usual under the ministrations of Mr. J. M. Peebles.
On Sunday evening, May 1st, during the absence of Mr.
Peebles in Yorkshire, Mr. Edmund D. Rogers, a literary gentle¬
man, of Norwich, officiated in his place. Mr. Rogers is a
Swedenborgian, and in his address he tried to reconcile the
opinions of Spiritualists, Swedenborgians, and orthodox
Christians, on the subject of death-bed repentance. Citing
the case of the dying thief upon the cross, as stated in the
New Testament, his chief endeavour was to produce evidence
that the thief was in reality not a thief, but a political offen¬
der, who might, therefore, have been as good a man as Gari¬
baldi. The Sunday afternoon conferences in the Cavendish
Rooms are also continued, but,they are very thinly attended.
On Sunday, May 1st, Professor Blackie, F.R.S.E., was present.
Somehow or other the discussion turned upon the enormous
amount of pauperism and misery caused in the United Kingdom
by the present English land laws, which have long since been
abolishedinFrance, Belgium, Russia, and most civilised nations.
Professor Blackie said that Spiritualism should be investigated,
and that he was in favour of the abolition of the laws which
favour primogeniture. Professor Blackie is now delivering
a course of lectures at the Royal Institution; his style of
speaking is eccentric, and he detains the listeners considerably
beyond the time fixed by the managers for the conclusion of
lectures. On one occasion he stated the interesting fact that
“ the Word,” in the opening chapter of St John’s gospel, is
a mistranslated passage, and the verse should read :—“ In the
beginning was reason, and reason was with God, and reason
was God,” which explanation makes good sense of a passage
which, as it stands, has no meaning at all.
Mr. Morse’s Meditjmship.—The Medium states that at
one of the weekly public seances held at 15, Southampton-
row, Holborn, W.C., on Friday evening, March 18, 1870, a
spirit who spoke through the trance mediumship of Mr. J. J.
Morse, said that his name was Edward Moore, and that he
was killed at Helmsdale’s Works, Samuel-street, Spitalfields,
by an accident with machinery. Mrs. Main, of 321, Bethnal-
green-road, inquired into the matter, and found the state¬
ments to be correct. On another evening, a spirit, who gave
the name of Best, stated that he died in the second week of
February last, and that his address was Chrisleton Lodge,
Chester. This was published in the Medium. The editor of
the Cheshire Observer inquired into the case, and published
the result as follows :—“ Mr. Best did not die in the second
week of February, but the fourth; the name of his residence
is spelt Christleton and not Chrisleton, and there is no re¬
semblance whatever between the spiritual handwriting and
that of the deceased gentleman when he wrote in the flesh.
With these exceptions, the spirit’-s account is quite correct.”
The preceding circumstances, together with others which have
been published in these pages, tend to prove that most of the
names and addresses given by the spirits who speak through
Mr. Morse are correct, but that some of them are altered more
or less by the difficulties besetting the transmission of the
messages. His mediumship, therefore, is very much of the
same character as that of Mrs. J. H. Conant, of Boston. The
messages sent through Mrs. Conant are published regularly
in the Banner of Light, and two of them will be found in
another part of this issue. An experiment was made a month
ago to ascertain Mr. Morse’s powers as an inspirational lec¬
turer ; he gave an address by invitation to the St. John’s
Association of Spiritualists, but the control was very weak,
partly from the unpleasant closeness of the room, and partly
because he'was somewhat worn out by previously sitting too
much for manifestations. Doubtless, when his power is
stronger, another trial will be made.' Since then he has re¬
ceived the following message from his guardian spirit:—“It
is our request that you abstain from holding any private
circles during the summer months, until you hear to the con¬
trary. Attendance to the above will be productive of benefit
to yourself and your friends, otherwise we shall be compelled
to withdraw ourselves from you—Tien.” Mr.. Morse’s weekly
Friday evening public s&ances are still held at 15, South
ampton-row, High Holborn. His guardian spirit, Tien Sien
Tie, says that he and other immortals come down to earth in
the attempt to teach its inhabitants, thus withdrawing them¬
selves from their own pursuits and aims, because of the love
they bear to those still on this plane of existence. He says
that by the law of “ eternal progression ” man must rise, even
did he receive no direct spiritual teachings from higher spheres^
»
70
THE SPIRITUALIST.
May 15, 1870
poetrg.
ARISTOCRATS.
The poet Bailey describes noble men as those who have
Vulgarised sublimity,
And brought up truth for the nation, parted it
As soldiers lotted once the garb of God.
Men who have forged gods, uttered, made them pass;
In whose words to be read with many a heaving
Of the heart, is a power like wind in rain,
Whose thoughts like bars of sunshine in shut rooms,
Mir] gloom, all glory, win the world to light.
Who make their very follies like their souls,
And, like the young moon with a ragged edge,
Still, in their imperfection, beautiful;
"Whose weaknesses are as lovely as their strength.
Like the white nebulous matter between stars,
"Which if not light, at least is likest light,
Men whom we build our loye round like an arch
Of triumph, as they pass us on their way
To glory and to immortality.
Men whose great thoughts possess us like a passion,
Through every limb and the whole heart, whose words
Haunt us as eagles haunt the mountain air.
*******
"Who shed great thoughts
As easily as an oak looseneth its golden leaves
In a kindly largess to the soil it grew on,
"Whose rich dark ivy thoughts, sunned o’er with love,
Flourish around the deathless stems of their names.
(EDtrespontience.
[(?}•««( freedom is given io correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers].
FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION" OF THOUGHT.
Sir,—I am an advocate for freedom of thought, but that,
like freedom of action, must be under the control of
knowledge and wisdom. Thought without action is useless ;
action without control is lawlessness—^twin-brother to murder.
The assertion of one active speaker, that he would encourage
at Spiritualistic meetings the “ wildest theories that they may
be disputed,” may answer the purpose of spouters, but for
those who go to meetings to obtain exact knowledge, and for
guidance on the heart and brain questions : Is life after death
true? Is special providence a truth?—to workers who object
not to give up a portion of their time to the public on the
platform for the purpose of giving such knowledge—such
wild freedom of speech—is an annoyance and a blight.
To such “freemen” I say: Start and carry on as many
meetings at your own expense, and at your own appointed
places for “wildest theories” as you please ; but, I pray you,
let us adopt the ordinary business-like habit of convening a
meeting for a specific subject, and keep to it, be it astronomy,
geology, or Spiritualism. This plan is a practical one ; it is
adopted by all sections of Protestants ; and the result is, that
the Church, the Independents, and the Methodists, sell their
20,000 to 50,000 copies of weekly newspapers and monthly
magazines, while Spiritualists are almost nowhere either on
the platform or in the press. Why is it? Because the
rampant nonsense uttered by speakers and writers is put
down, and steady facts and arguments in the groove of their
several specialities are adhered to. In like manner let kindred
Spiritualists cease to bombard Christianity, but devote them¬
selves in public to their primary work; then your public
meetings will be crowded, and your literature sought for.
You will then obtain the co-operation of thousands of those
who at present refuse to be led by inexperienced leaders.
America is said to contain several millions of Spiritualists ;
if so, where are they ? What are they doing ? They are
scattered to the winds—have no cohesion, because the
“ wildest theory ” men leap on to the platform and bear sway.
Men of knowledge, of sense, retire, and refuse to co-operate.
It may be said, that American serial literature consists of
only one weekly journal, which has a weakly existence, because
it has been and is a cesspool of theories, John Jones.
Enmore-park, South Norwood,
May 2nd, 1870.
P.S.—Considering The Spiritualist a scientific journal,
why not instruct Spiritualists by taking the physical structure
of man as a combination of chemical elements, producing
during combustion unseen emanations which have a powerful
effect as illustrated in mesmerism, biology, clairvoyance, &c.
Let communications, experiments, &c. be recorded. You
would raise the minds of many and enable them to perceive
the rays of power which unite us to man as a spirit denuded
of his seen physical structure. Such subjects treated in a
popular style by correspondents would be interesting to
thousands, and enable them to understand why they are in
affinity with angels, and from them receive so many substantial
benefits.—J. J.
[With reference to the excellent suggestion in the foregoing postcript,
there is no doubt that newspaper space is better utilised by letters on
scientific experiments instead of upon theological disputes. Will Mr.
Jones follow his own advice, and publish in any of the spiritual periodicals
detailed accounts of his experiments as to the action of the emanations
from minerals and shells upon clairvoyant sensitives? The spiritual
journals, so far as we know, are supported in proportion to the present
dimensions of the movement It is not reasonable, while we Spiritualists
have not a single building of our own in this nation, to compare us with
religious denominations of ten thousand times our numerical strength.
Ed.]
THE BIBLE-SPIRITUALISM CONTROVERST.
Sir,—If Parliament be sincere in its desire to afford the
young true religious education, it muse first define religion,
before it can direct its teaching.
What is religion ? Theoretically, it is a knowledge of the
relationship existing between man and God, and the duties
arising therefrom.
It is said by those interested that the only way to teach
religion is by making the Bible a class book, with full liberty
to expound it. If Parliament sanction this, the effect will be
—and you know it—that sectarian creedalism will be taught,
and every sect will he established.
But what is The Bible, that It should be selected ? “ The
inspired Word of God,” say they who profess to teach reli¬
gion. Then if it be the expression of Infinite Intelligence, all
its statements will be demonstrably true—self-evident TO all.
If it need an interpreter—a fallible man—then the expression
of Infinite Intelligence is the expression of the mind of the
interpreter, and the “Infallible Word of God” is nothing
more than the opinion of fallible man.
Further, every well-read man knows the “Bible” tobesimply
a selection from the writings of Jewish reformers, made by
■various (Ecumenical Councils, the decision of the first—the
Council of Nicse—being reversed many times by other
Councils, before the final settlement of the Canon. Thus,
again, what is, and what is not the “ Word of God,” being
decided by man’s opinion.
Seeing this—as a true man—expose the imposition: refuse
to allow the Bible to be used as a class-book : refuse autho¬
rity to dwarf the expanding intelligence of the young mind,
by indoctrinating it with lifeless and soul-degrading creeds.
Strip religious teachers (so called) of all power. Then, and
not till then, will the Divinity within the Soul appear, and
the first step be taken towards attaining that social Millen¬
nium whose law will be—“ As ye would that men should
do to you, do ye also unto them,” the fulfilment of which is
Practical Religion. I am, Sir, yours respectfully,
6, Cambridge-road, Kilbum, C. W. Pearce.
May 1st.
P.S.—A copy of this letter has been sent to each member
of the House of Commons.
To shun evils as sins, is the very essence of the Christian religion.—
Swedenborg.
Divinity in its central life is love. In this truth you behold the source of
“ salvation.”—A. J. Davis.
Sir,—I have but little reliance upon discussion as a means
of conviction, yet if you will allow me space I will make a
few remarks upon the Bible letter in your last by Mr. Pearce.
At the beginning he puts in the mouth of Swedenborg as a
“ majestic utterance,” a statement the seer never could have
thought of. If he did not believe any proposition to be true
unless he saw (that is “ knew”) it to be so, then he did not
believe in anything. We cannot be said to believe what we
know. Whatever we believe, the converse thereof must be
possible and thinkable. Swedenborg of all men, depended
more and trusted more the intuitions of his mind, and there¬
fore had a larger belief than any other man. He saw clearly
the compound nature of the mind, and repeats to weariness
how much the power of the mind to see truth depends upon
the state of the affections. The seat of the feelings is the
chamber through which all existence, must pass to the in¬
tellect. Swedenborg was like all men compelled by his
constitution to believe upon authority. Every mind will have
its own quantity and kind of authority. In experimental and
exact science, an intellect with power and a fine edge is
sufficient, but with all social and moral questions contingent
in their character, “ a clean heart ” is as necessary as a clear
head in order to arrive at right conclusions.
In reply to the second paragraph, where it points to those
who “ desire to follow Christ, &c.,” and also deem it a duty
to believe every word of the Bible, I consider all who have
after mature thought attached themselves to the Christian
symbol, believe the Bible, because in it they find their best
spiritual food, and that they are better for its use because
they find its principles in harmony with the condition of
things, because it teaches that we have the power to rise into
the highest field of active goodness, and thus assist in the
elevation [of the species, or we may sink by selfishness and
thus assist in the degradation of the species ; and further,
that while we are here in a natural world, we are at the same
time inspired by a spiritual one. I believe the Bible because
after twenty years trial of the positive philosophy I found
my inner constitution starved, and on being drawn back to
the philosophy of the Bible, I found in it all that my spiritual
nature required.
I do not enter into the historic or traditional argument
because in one sense, it is of little concern to me who wrote
the Bible or when it was written; whether the Jewish Christ
materially lived at all or not. All that concerns me most as a
Spiritualist, is that the true Saviour does now live and has
ever lived, and that His spirit and philosophy only have the
power to restore the world.
What does Mr. Pearce mean by saying “thus they stultify
their own God-given power-reason, and deface the glorious
image of God—^intelligence in which they are created.” Does
reason lead to the conclusion that man was created intelligent ?
Mr. Darwin is of a different opinion. Whatever reason may
or may not do, Christianity teaches that in the image of God
goodness must be the crowning attribute, and intelligence the
guiding light. Looking at man as he now plays his part in
the wonderful scheme of things, if as Mr. Pearce states it, God
gave man the faculty of reason, it is a sad pity He at the same
time withheld the power to be reasonable. Reason pure and
simple, if logically followed, has but one landing—utter scep¬
ticism.
I will leave the third and fourth paragraphs, except the last
two clauses, in which he says “ and reject all that nature, God’s
unerring word, and reason show to be inconsistent with our
highest conceptions of Deity.” Will Mr. Pearce oblige us
with his conception of Deity from the pure reason and nature
stand-point? By reason and nature I do not believe it
possible to find out God. Or in other words, the mind can
only be conscious of its own impressions, and has no faculty
whereby to transcend the realm of natural phenomena.
When God comes to us it is as a feeling, not as an intellectual
perception. We simply have faith that He is, and that He is
“ Our Father.”
What Mr. Pearce says of inspiration is simply a misapplica¬
tion of the term. No one can feel their conscience bound by
what they know to be untrue.
From Mr. Pearce’s stand-point, the book called “Divine
Revelations ” written under remarkable conditions by a youth
who had had little means of culture previous to that time,
was no more inspired than the “ Origin of Species.” The
latter being the result of immense intellectual resource, the
former inbreathed where there was no condition but that of
spiritual fitness for the work of inspiration. Nay, if Mr.
Pearce is right, a simple induction arrived at by a conscious,
intellectual process, is as much the result of inspiration as
Hamlet, Paradise Lost, or the etherial breathings of Keats or
Shelley.
Neither can I with Mr. Pearce believe in the “ equal divinity
of all mankind.” I think that all are, or rather may be, the
“ temples of the living God,” yet I conceive that just as men
are relatively good or bad, so are they relatively divine. I
am not here defending the Christian religion, but the religion
of Christ. The “ New Testament has for its centre the person
of Jesus Christ and His human nature,” and there is there
brought to view all the pure and noble possibilities of
humanity. There is likewise the Divine nature in its paternal
love and infinite wisdom. In Jesus Christ the two are united,
revealing the perfect humanity and the all-perfect divinity.
I do not know the amount of “ Spiritual elevation ” obtainable
by those who deny the divinity of Christ, but I do know that
Spiritual degradation is not special to those who believe
it.
I believe with Mr. Emerson that mankind, wherever found,
in the Church or on the gallows, are on their way to glory,
but in every sample of the race that I have yet met, I find
something more deeply rooted than “ ignorance or error,”
something which tells us we want Divine succour and influence
coming within us with creative power, notprimarily to bring
us into conformity with some model that is placed before us,
but to revive the Divine image within us, so that by its radia¬
tion we shall produce around us the halo of all that is Christ-
like and good.”
I must touch lightly what follows. Mr. Pearce finds faith
objectionable. “ It fosters selfishness.” Is the experimental
philosophy to take its place? If so, there will be an
end to all heroism. Faith is the root of all work, faith
and hope are the brilliant stars that have led to the achieve¬
ment of all the good imbedded in history. The farmer and
fisherman alike toil through faith. What would have Garibaldi
and the noble Mazzini been without faith in God and justice ?
Knowledge, which means “things known,” depends much
upon faith in our senses, reason has but one end, and that is
“nothing can be known.”
Mr. Pearce thinks it wrong to admit for recreative influence
the truly-repenting sinner. If he appears to be honest, who
is to be his judge ? He then concludes by telling us that
Spiritualism had opened his eyes, and he had discovered that
there is no evil in existence,'that the “heart of man is not
wicked,” but in all cases sweet and pure. Mankind are not
liars, they only commit errors, only make mistakes. The only
difference between the angel and devil is that the former has
a little more knowledge. To tell me there is no evil is like
telling me the snow-drift is not cold, nor the sunbeam warm.
My Spiritualism on the contrary tells me that evil does exist,
and that to a terrible extent, that it is deeply rooted in the
will or heart of man, and that we are liable to error of intellect
but evil can only be predicated of the will or motive, there¬
fore I hold all intellectual states to be equally honourable or
equally honest. I have far exceeded my limits, and must
stop. John Beattie.
2, Westbourne-place, Clifton, Bristol.
May 3rd, 1870.
Sir,—1 cordially agree with you as to a doubt of the pro¬
priety of discussing the theological phase of the Spiritual sub¬
ject publicly ; such was your suggestion in the last number
of the Spiritualist. I am constrained, nevertheless, in jus¬
tice to myself, to correct what appears in my letter of last
month to have occasioned some unpleasant feeling, first, with
regard to your intimation in the “ Answers to Correspondents,”
that the letter of “ A. B. T.” “ presses severely ” on me “ per¬
sonally I can only say that I am unaware of anything in my
own letter deserving the same, and I must also observe that
no one is fit to conduct any disputation, written or otherwise,
who is unable to avoid personality, for the cause of truth gains
nothing by it. It is by placing circumstances in a reasonable
form before the minds of men that they are led to conviction ;
therefore, the argument which requires abuse or mere sarcasm,
however polite, to sustain it, cannot be a sound one.*
I now proceed to notice the criticisms of Mr. Pearce. After
cavilling at the Nicene creed, he says in a short paragraph,
which I quote, My courteous opponent, Mr. Gerrans, reveals
this absurdity when he speaks of rescuing a sinful world from
its lost condition ” by “such a trifling operation as the impreg¬
nation of the germ of a human being.” The word “ trifling ”
is, as may be observed, in italics. What meaning is intended
thereby I do not know ; but if there be any doubt of my own
meaning in first using the term “ trifling operation ” I now
say that the accomplishment of the fact was, as a fact, most
certainly trifling in comparison with the vast operations of
creative power exemplified in the formation of the universe ;
and that the great Father of Spirits could set aside the
ordinary operations of nature when a special purpose was to be
served. And what was that purpose ? The personal mani¬
festation of Himself to mankind. Now we are at that dreadful
stumbling-block in the path of Unitarianism—the Immaculate
Conception. The usual plan of attack on this point is to sneer
at the Athanasian creed and the Nicene council. But this
proceeding only hampers the question, and to no purpose, as
the fact of the Immaculate Conception holds quite good
enough without it. The divinity of Jesus Christ was taught
by the Church from the first; long before the council of Nice
was thought of. The creed itself is repudiated by a vast pro¬
portion of thorough believers in the divine conception of Jesus
Christ. Swedenborg, whose name has been mentioned, refused
to accept the creed. But though that enlightened theologian
rejected the ordinary doctrine of the Trinity, and substituted
his own enlightened views thereon, he fully agreed with the
scriptural statement of the Immaculate Conception, explaining
it as the supernatural influence of God Himself on the Virgin
Mary; the result being Jesus, the God man, who, after His
death and resurrection, was taken up by the Father into
heaven.
Mr. Pearce intimates that the Bible is unworthy of confi¬
dence, as it is a selection by (Ecumenical councils ; and that
one council after another reversed its predecessors’ decisions.
An answer to this sweeping assertion would involve references
to Mosheim and Milner to give the reasons for all this, and the
procedure would take up more room than can be appropriated
to this letter. In examining the authority for our Christian
belief we have no necessity to trouble ourselves with councils ;
we have in the four gospels and the different epistles abun¬
dant evidence for the truth of Christianity. And unless any
one is in a position to prove that the writings of Moses are
forgeries, and that the Apostles (without whom the world of
that period would have known nothing of Christianity) could
have so stultified themselves as to traverse various countries,
and without the slightest prospect of worldly advantages, to
become exposed to discomforts, dangers, and martyrdom in
preaching Christ the Son of God, crucified and risen from the
grave, culminating in His glorious ascension, had they not by
ocular demonstration been certain of the fact! The attacks
of gainsayers on the truths of Christianity are fruitless.
Mr. Pearce has made some severe remarks on the forgive¬
ness accorded by God’s ministers at the bedside,of a dying
sinner. No matter how wicked his life may have been, if
he does not believe in the Nicene creed he will not go to
heaven. Now, whatever may be the practice of the Romish
church, I believe this absurdity is not maintained by Protestant
ministers. A man with a guilty conscience, when stricken
down by disease and hanging over the verge of the grave,
will cling to hope for mercy, and God’s ministers direct him
to God for that pardon which is promised to every repentant
sinner. Protestant divines discourage the dependance on
death-bed repentances, and hold that righteousness of life is
alone the best and surest warranty for the happiness of heaven.
They urge, on the contrary, the danger of procrastination to
the uncertainty of the last days or hours of mortal existence.
Ministers preach faith certainly, but then it is in connection
with works, the fruits of faith. And what says St. James on
this very question of faith. “ Show me thy faith without thy
works, and I will show thee my faith by my works.” The
* The suppressed letter of A. B. T. was a well-written one in every
respect, but had a sarcastic tone. It was not the kind of letter which Mr,
Gerrans supposes it to have been.—Ed.
May 15, 1870.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
71
divine sermon on the Mount of Olives as recorded in Matthew
is an eloquent display of every requisite for man’s spiritual
nature, fitting him for every moral and social condition ; and
faith in the divine teacher, if thoroughly realised, is a security
for the practice of righteousness. Thus faith, it will be seen,
begets holiness of mind, and holiness of mind,—a good life.
Having said thus much, Mr. Editor, I beg to conclude with
a few observations in connection with this subject. As
Spiritualism is to be found in the Old and New Testaments—
especially the latter—there is no reason why it should not
exist in the present day. There are but few Christian believers
who would discourage the idea. For conceding it to be a
reality, it does this good : it confirms the gospel testimony
bj proving an existence beyond the grave; and, therefore,
neutralises the pernicious Materialism prevalent in the philo¬
sophical world by showing that man possesses an immortal
soul. Ido hope, then, sir, that this controversy will cease, for
most assuredly if Spiritualists make infidel attacks on the
orthodox belief of Christians, believers will set their faces
against Spiritualists and the extravagancies of Spiritualism.
7a, Wyndham-place, April 25. J. G. Gebrans.
Sib,—You say my letter presses “personally” upon Mr.
Gerrans, but as I have no personal knowledge of that gentle¬
man, I could hardly have had any motive for personal pressure
upon him. But when an opponent shuts your mouth in
argument by an imputation of inconsistency in the disbelief
in miracles, upon the ground that everything is possible to
God, what figure 'is so appropriate as sarcasm in reply 1 Of
course, on the assumption of a supernatwral God, no absurdity
in the way of supernaturalism is too huge a camel for the
popular swallow ; and the test-of-reason argument is there¬
fore deemed presumptuous.
Mr. Gerrans has evidently, however, a lurking misgiving of
the efficacy of his supernatural argument, although he can¬
didly admits that the “ immaculate conception ” must have
been a miracle, and “ contrary to natural law,” for he yet
endeavours to reconcile the dogma with natural law by telling
us that he “ could by a little anatomical and physiological
detail, place the matter in such a plain and simple point of
view ’’ that it “ could no longer be considered such a great
mystery and improbability.” But if “contrary to natural
law,” what else can it possibly be but a mystery, and, to the
rational mind, an improbability ? And if it be not the latter,
but only a simple scientific fact which Ac is in a position to
elucidate on principles of natural law, what then becomes of
the “ knat ” which he says is the test-of-reason Spiritualists are
straining at.
It is true that such superstitions contain within themselves
the seeds of their own downfall, as Mr. Pearse justly argues ;
but yet it is surprising what a vigorous and hardy weed super¬
stition is. Homan Catholic countries groan under the accumu¬
lated mummeries of its influence,—it takes the place of science,
—and the deductions of 'reason are set aside for the stupid
drivellings of folly!
As you have, through your columns, tacitly imputed to me
“ a tendency to get angry ” over the “ Bible-Spiritualism” con¬
troversy ; and as my sole aim is rational argument for the eluci¬
dation of truth, I trust to your courtesy and sense of justice
in giving equal circulation to my reply. A. B. T.
17th April, 1870.
[The relationship of Spiritualism to the Bible will he a battle field in
England for many long years, so that any discussion on the subject is mani¬
festly interminable. Free expression has been given in these columns to
thoughts now prevalent on this subject, and it is right that such thoughts
should have been put on record for historical purposes. Not to bring the
controversy to too abrupt a conclusion, we will give space in the next
number to a few more short letters, but then stop, for a season, the pub¬
lication of communications on the subject. Further letters should not be
more than a quarter of a column long.—Ed.]
A TEAK-BOOK OF SPIRITUALISM.
Sir,—The efficiency of an army is often enhanced by indi¬
viduals knowing its numerical strength, and the capabilities of
the officers in command. This thought made practical upon
a higher plane, has induced Hudson Tuttle, the well-known
author and editor of the American Spiritualist, in connection
with ourself, to undertake the publication of a Spiritualist
annual, or handbook of Spiritualism throughout the world
for the present year, containing original matter and statistical
information relating to Spiritualist books, periodicals, me¬
diums, seances, lecturers, trance-speakers, and organisations,
with the number, or proximate number, of believers in
Spiritualism in all portions of the world. It is desired that
Spiritualists in all countries should have a copy of this annual,
and your aid is earnestly solicited to promote its circulation.
In Constantinople, Smyrna, Athens, the Grecian Isles, and
other portions of the East, last season, I met a number of
devoted Spiritualists ; will such, will you, dear reader, give
us full information relative to the introduction of Spiritualism
into your country and vicinity :—1. The names and post-
office addresses of those interested in the subject in foreign
lands. 2. The number of believers, and their methods of
disseminating the principles. 3. The number and kinds of
mediums, and the number of organisations or societies. 4.
And will you, further, furnish us a short original essay, or,
at least, a paragraph, or sentence, relating to the Spiritual
philosophy ?
The annual will be out in Autumn, 1870, and for sale by
liberal publishers in America, and by Mr. J. Burns, 15,
Southampton-row, London.
15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
J. M. Peebles.
THE LATE MR. ROBERT SHAW.
Sib,—I beg leave to state that though the report of my hus¬
band’s death and after manifestations, contained in your last
issue, was strictly accurate, a mistake was made in stating
that he was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery. He was buried
in the cemetery at Willesden, and it seems desirable that the
•error should be corrected. Charlotte Shaw.
5, Cambridge-road, the Junction, Kilbum, N.W.
April 7.
The Globe of last Thursday evening contains a short
article on Spiritualism and the Medium newspaper.
The Dialectical Society.—During the past four weeks
•other meetings of the Dialectical Committee on Spiritualism
have been held with closed doors, without the members being
able to agree as to the report which they will issue. All the
reports of the experimental sub-committees have however
been received and adopted. These all bear strong testimony
in favour of the reality of the manifestations, and a report
based on the reports of these sub-committees, is now in process
of preparation.
SPIRITUALISM IN BRADFORD.
On Thursday night, April 28th, Mr. Peebles gave the first
of a series of four lectures on Spiritualism in the Mechanics’
Hall, Bradford, Yorkshire, to a small but attentive audience.
The burden of his observations was to prove the fact of
Spirit Communion. At the commencement the chairman
gave an intimation that any question given in at the close of
the lecture would be answered if it were put without com¬
ment. The first questioner was a “Secularist,” who broke
through the regulation by prefacing it with a speech. Mr.
Peebles having answered the question, Mrs. Low, another
Secularist, rose, and without asking the permission of the
lecturer or the chairman walked coolly on to the platform, and
commenced asking a string of questions in a speech of a
quarter of an hour’s duration; neither was she interrupted,
but no sooner did Mr. Peebles commence to answer her than
she interfered with remarks. Bradford Secularists deny the
existence of spirits altogether.
The lecture on the following night was on the Bible proofs
of Spiritualism. The visions, trances, and healing gifts of the
present the speaker compared with those of the past. The
audience was a small one, and at the close of the lecture,
which was listened to with great interest, a few questions
were put to Mr. Peebles and satisfactorily answered. On
Saturday evening the subject of the lecture was “ The Judg¬
ment Day : When is it, Where is it, and Who is the Record¬
ing Angel ?” The lecturer said that the popular belief in a
general Judgment is a fallacious notion, and that sin is tried,
judged, and condemned, and punished, beginning at the time
it is committed. The audience was a small one, but very
attentive. A few questions were put and successfully
answered. On Sunday morning Mr. Peebles gave his fourth
lecture in Mr. Pullan’s new music hall, Bradford, on “ Sal¬
vation and Punishment: What are their True Meaning ?”
On this occasion tbe attendance was much better. In the
afternoon upwards of one thousand persons were present, and
they patiently listened to inspirational addresses from some
local mediums, Messrs. Blackbur, Wood, and others. In the
evening Mr. Peebles gave his fiftln lecture to about one
thousand very attentive listeners—subject, “Heaven and
Hell: What and Where are they ?” On Monday evening he
spoke on the subject, “ Who shall roll us away the stone from
the Sepulchre ?” The room, which has been provided by Mr.
John Bowling for the especial use of the Spiritualists, was
crowded to excess. Harmony was the characteristic of the
gathering, and this no doubt assisted Mr. Peebles to a con¬
siderable extent. Mr. John Culpan, of Union-street, Halifax,
who has favoured us with the preceding information, says
that “ Spiritualism in Bradford has many votaries, but none
prominent in literature or lofty in material possessions. A
debt of gratitude is due to our esteemed friend, Mr. Peebles,
who, from his gentlemanly and peculiar way of answering
the queries proposed to him, has done more to raise the sub¬
ject of Spiritualism in the estimation of outsiders than could
have been expected in years by the exercise of local talent.”
Among the more remarkable mediums in Bradford is Mr.
Thomas Tate, a working man, who appears to be under the
influence of Indian spirits principally. He is a healing
medium, and cures by the laying on of hands. Elizabeth
Sagar, a physical medium, has many striking manifestations
as stated in the last issue of this journal. Mary Anne Illing¬
worth Bowling is a remarkable medium as a speaker, consider¬
ing her uneducated mind ; she can neither read nor write.
She is much influenced by a spirit known as “ Dr. Hardaker,”
who prescribes for patients after having examined them dur¬
ing sleep. Mr. Culpan says that he has obtained through
this source more than two hundred prescriptions for persons
never seen by the medium or himself, and in every case, when
the Doctor has intimated a recovery of the patient, it only re¬
quired obedience to the advice given to ensure a restoration.
In several instances, where this has not been attended to, the
patients have gone to the spirit land, but before their
bodies have been interred they have spoken through this
medium, and owned that had they taken the medicine pre¬
scribed they would have been living amongst their friends.
Unbelief and the fear of Mrs. Grundy deterred them from so
doing.
MORE SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHS.
Mr. G. W. Keith, M.D., of Delphi, Indiana, writes to the
Banner of Light that “ the people of the Hoosier State have
two or three recently developed soirit artists, who bid fair to
become as successful as Mumler. One of them, Mr. A. D.
Willis, of Crawfordsville, I met while engaged in healing the
sick in that city a few weeks since, and had an ample oppor¬
tunity to witness the modus operandi in the management cf
this end of the wires which connect its rude machinery with
the finer of the spiritual “behind the scenes,” and also to
learn the history of the artist’s development, as well as that
of his experiences in general prior to receiving this new and
beautiful gift. Mr. Willis is a native of Indiana, and so far as
I coul d learn has always borne the reputation of being an honest,
truthful, industrious young man. Notwithstanding the limited
advantages the small towns in this State afforded in his boy¬
hood for acquiring an education, he succeeded in gaining
a pretty thorough knowledge of all the branches which were
then taught in the common schools, and for several years
performed successfully the part of pedagogue in the county
districts in Montgomery County. About six years ago
he learned the art of photography, and has ever since
carried on the business in Crawfordsville, with a degree
of success that has made it sufficiently remunerative to
afford himself, his wife and child, the indispensable
things of this life, food, raiment, and shelter. Up to the
first of last July he had never noticed any unusual phenome¬
non in connection with his profession. At that time he began
to experience peculiar sensations while standing at the
camera, and when he went into the “ dark room ” to develope
the picture he would find the plate had the appearance of
having been smoked, and soon after he discovered the faint
shadow of a human form upon the plate at the side or back
of the sitter, which had the effect of frightening Mr. Willis,
and arousing in him feelings of superstition to an alarming
extent. Mr. Willis is a member of an orthodox church, and
thought this must be the work of the devil, who had come to
torment him for some sin which he had committed, although
he was not conscious of having been the author of any crime
for which justice could inflict so severe a punishment, so he
prayed often and fervently that this cup might pass, and what
he then believed to be ghosts and demons might be driven
back to their home infernal, and no longer permitted
to interrupt him in his laudable attempt to please his
patrons by producing good pictures of themselves, and of
themselves only. But his prayers were of no avail, for those
whom he and his brethren in the church had believed were
sleeping their last sleep would, against his will and pleasure,
his prayers and threats, still persist in giving evidence that
they still live, by appearing as before upon the picture plate
beside the sitter. For several weeks he succeeded in keeping
the facts from the public eye by destroying every plate where¬
on the impression of spirit forms could be traced before coming
out of the dark room, and in some instances, after repeated
failures to obtain a picture without the spiritual result, he
would say there was some trouble with his chemicals, and
would advise his customers to go to some other artist, but
after awhile the secret leaked out. And so the work went on
and every day the spirit pictures appeared mere distinctly, and
many a sorrowing heart was filled with joy unspeakable, by
receiving a picture of some dear friend who had ‘ crossed the
river,’ and the astonished artist was compelled to believe
‘ they are the living, they alone whom thus we call the dead.’
“ Mr. Willis is now producing a great many very fine spirit
pictures. His rooms are constantly thronged with persons
who are anxious to obtain the likeness of some dear friend.
As yet but a small percentage of pictures are recognized, I
think about one in ten. A distinct spirit picture is developed
upon the plate in at least three out of every four sittings when
that result is desired. I understand that Mr. Fisher Doherty,
of Crawfordsville, one of the oldest Spiritualists in the State,
and a pioneer, an earnest worker in every reformatory move¬
ment for the past twenty-five years, is making arrangements
to travel with Mr. Willis through Indiana and Ohio, lecturing
j and giving exhibitions of spirit photography by the oxy-cal-
cium light. They intend to stop three or four days in each
town, operating in the gallery of some artist in the place
during the day, and lecturing and exhibiting spirit pictures.
“ If any friend wishes for more facts in relation to Mr.
Willis’s experience in spirit photography, I should be pleased
to respond to their inquiries.”
Mb. J. M. Peebles.—Rumours have reached us just
before going to press that Mr. J. M. Peebles intends to return
to America next month. Should this be true, it will be a
great loss to Spiritualism in the United Kingdom, that the
only speaker • in the nation who devotes his time entirely to
the platform work of the movement should go from our midst.
This is speaking from a utilitarian point of view, quite apart
from the kindly feelings which his warm-heartedness and
freedom from petty and sectarian feelings, have inspired in
all who know him. It is to be hoped either that he is not
going, or that he will remain until the winter months.
Changes in the Earth’s Surface.—Professor Huxley,
in a recent address, delivered by him as President of the
Geological Society, said :—“ If the doctrine of evolution is
sound, it is clear that the present distribution of life on the
globe is the product of two factors; the one being the distri¬
bution which has obtained in the immediately preceding
epoch, and the other the character and the extent of the
changes which have taken place in the physical geography of
the earth between the one epoch and the other. The existing
four primary distributional areas for the terrestrial verte-
brata are—first, the Novo Zelanian, or the New Zealand pro¬
vince ; secondly, the Australian, including Australia, Tas¬
mania, and Niguto Islands; thirdly, Austro-Columbia, or
South America and North America to Mexico ; and fourthly,
the rest of the world. In all these provinces the animals of
the pleiocene and pleistocene deposits are closely allied to
those now inhabiting the same provinces, and conversely the
forms of the other provinces are absent. The law of succes¬
sion therefore holds good as far back as the pliocene, and in
the miocene it is also to be readily traced ; but in the
miocene epoch North America possessed elephants, horses,
rhinoceroses, and a great variety of ruminants and pigs ab¬
sent in the more recent fauna. Europe had apes, elephants,
and numbers of other animals now extinct there; and in
Northern India the African types of the hippopotamus, giraffe,
and elephant existed, mixed with the Asiatic types of the
latter and with camels. There is every reason to believe, on
other grounds, that Hindostan south of the Ganges, and
Africa, south of the Sahara, were both separated by a wide
sea from Europe and Northern Asia during the middle and
upper eocene periods ; and it hence is highly probable that
the well-known similarities, and no less remarkable differ¬
ences, between the present fauna of India and South Africa
have arisen from an upheaval of the nummulitic sea in a
direction from Abyssinia to the mouth of the Ganges. There
seems to be also little doubt that there was also during the
miocene epoch a continuity of dry land between Eurasia and
North America, though there is at present no evidence to
show at which side of the western continent this existed.
There are also good grounds for believing that the Australian
and the Indian and South African provinces were cut off by
sea from the rest of Arctogaia before the miocene epoch. The
professor reasoned out his case, and illustrated it by the
geological evidence of the distribution of the fauna of the
different provinces, and declared that the result of the whole
investigation favoured the doctrine of evolution, and that in
fact no other theory could satisfactorily account for the
past and present distribution of life on the globe. Going
back to the relations between the miocene and the upper
eocene, the materials, he said, were small as compared with
those obtainable in higher strata, but so far as they were
available they still favoured the theory. In speaking of
mammals of the Stonesfield slate, he said he was disposed to
believe that at that early period the Australian province was
one of the largest, as it is now one of the smallest divisions.
He gave a description of the mode in which certain of these
districts might have been gradually united and disunited.
In conclusion he said that it was in favour of the hypothesis
that it was consistent with the persistence throughout of a
general uniformity of the direction of the great masses of the
land and water, and it required no supposition that the rate
of change in organic life had been greater or less than at the
present time.”
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
In reply to several correspondents, it may be stated that Professor
Max Muller’s four lectures on the “Science of Religion,” are now
being published verbatim in Fraser's Magazine. They will all be
contained in the April, May, June, and July numbers.
J. B. (Southampton.^—Crowded out this month.
C. A. R. (Hackney.)—A package has been sent you. We are
obliged to you for your good wishes.
M.D.—Mr. Wallace, F.L.S., is stated to be “ an avowed Spiritualist,”
because about a year ago he spoke in favour of Spiritualism to a
public meeting at Lawson’s Rooms, Gower-street, and because his
name is printed in the Spiritual Magazine ior October, 1869, as one
of its contributors. We do not know what he has written on the
subject, but can inquire.
J. C. (Halifax).—A portion of your communication is kept over till
next issue for want of space.
,%* Correspondents are requested to make their letters shorter,
because their length this month has forced us to leave out some
reports of seances.
72
THE SPIRITUALIST
May 15, 1870.
FACTS FOR NON-SPIRITUALISTS.
The phenomena aoen at spiritual circles are
so extraordinary, and so unlike those coming
■within the ordinary range of human experi¬
ence, that it is quite right not to accept them
on the testimony of others. Each individual
should witness and test them personally, and
believe nothing until the absolute knowledge
is gained that denial is impossible.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES INVES¬
TIGATION.
The testimony of reliable and respectable wit¬
nesses that the phenomena of Spiritualism are
actual facts, and not imposture or delusion, has of
late years so accumulated as to possess very great
weight. In the case of Lyon v. Home, Mr. Robert
Chambers, Mr. 0. P. Yarley, Dr. Gully, Mr. and
Mrs. S. 0. Hall, and others, all made affidavits
strongly in favour of Mr Home. The following
was the affidavit of Mr. O. F. Varley, C.E.,
F.R.G.S., M.R.I.-:—
“ I, Cromwell Fleetwood Varley, of Fleetwood House,
Beckenham, in- the County of Kent, Esquire, make oath
and say as follows:—
“I have been a student of electricity, chemistry, and
natural philosophy for twenty-six years, and a tele¬
graphic engineer by profession for twenty-one years,
and I am the consulting electrician of the Atlantic Tele¬
graph Company, and of the Electric and International
Company.
“ About nine or ten years ago, having had my atten¬
tion directed to the subject of Spiritualism by its spon¬
taneous and unexpected development in my own family
in the form of clairvoyant visions and communications,
I determined to test the truth of the alleged physical
phenomena to the best of my ability, and to ascertain,
& possible, the nature of the force which produced them.
11 Accordingly, about eight years ago, I called on Mr.
Home, the defendant in this suit, and stated that I had
not yet witnessed any of the physical phenomena, but
that I was a scientific man and wished to investigate
them carefully.
“ He immediately gave me every facility for the pur¬
pose, and desired me to satisfy myself in every possible
way, and I have been with him on divefs occasions
when, the phenomena have occurred. I have examined
and tested them with him and with others, under con¬
ditions of my own choice, under a bright light, and have
made the most jealous and searching scrutiny. I have
been, since then, for seven months in America, where
the subject attracts great attention and study, and where
it is cultivated by some of the ablest men, and having
experimented with and compared the forces with elec¬
tricity and magnetism, and after having applied me¬
chanical and mental tests, I entertain no doubt whatever
that the manifestations which I have myself examined
were'not due to the operation of any of the recognised
physical laws of nature, and that there has been present
on the occasions above-mentioned some intelligence
other than that of the medium and observers.
“ The subject of course offers many opportunities and
inducements for fraud, and I only speak of what I have
myself seen and tested. Since my acquaintance with
Mr. Home began I have pursued the enquiry, and I have
found engaged in it able, learned, and scientific men,
who are convinced as I am, that the physical manifesta¬
tions are but the introduction to an extensive field of
mental and physical knowledge which will in a great
measure explain and reconcile the beliefs of all ages and
nations. I know of several instances both in Eurbpe
and America in which this course of study has awak¬
ened the perception of the purest and loftiest truths and
principles. There have been no doubt cases in which
the intellect has been too feeble for the stimulus, and
has been overpowered by it, just as frequently results
from excessive application to religion and other exciting
topics, but such cases have not come within my own
observation.
“Mr. Home, like several other non-professional me¬
diums whose cases I have studied, was passive during
the occurrence of the manifestations. He, like the
other mediums, is extremely susceptible to external in¬
fluences, and has a mind better suited to receive impres¬
sions than to prosecute enquiries. I willingly testify my
entire conviction of his truthfulness and honesty.
“ 0. F. Varley
It also came out in the evidence given at the
trial, that Mr. Home had been the invited and un¬
paid guest of the Emperor and the Empress of the
French, the Emperor, Empress, and the late Em¬
press Dowager of Russia, the Grand Duke Con¬
stantine, the King of Prussia, the late King of
Bavaria, the late King of Wurtemburg, and the
Queen of Holland. Mr. Home says that all his
life he has never taken a farthing of pay for his
seances. In March, 1869, the Spiritual Magazine
gave the names of the following gentlemen as
those who have long been investigating the sub¬
ject:—-
“ Cromwell F. Yarley, Esq., Fleetwood-house, Becken¬
ham Alfred B. Wallace, Esq., 9, St. Mark’s-crescent,
N.W.; Professor He Morgan, 91, Adelaide-road, N.W.;
Captain Hrayson, B.A., Woolwich; Hr. J. M. Gully,
The Priory, Great Malvern: Hr. J. J. G. ’Wilkinson, 4,
St. John’s-wood-villas, N.W.; Hr. Hixon, 8, Great Or-
mond-street, W.C.: S. C. Hall, Esq., 15, Ashley-place,
Victoria-street, S.W.; Newton Crosland, Esq.; William
Howitt, Esq., The Orchard, Hare-green, Esher, Surrey;
Bobert Chambers, Esq., St. Andrew’s, Edinburgh; H.
H. Jencken, Esq., Kihnorey-house, Norwood; J. G.
Crawford, Esq., 62, Gloucester-crescent, N.W.; W. M.
Wilkinson, Esq., Oakfleld, Kilbum; Lord Adare, 5,
Buckingham-gate; The Master of Lindsay, Grosvenor-
square.”
Mrs. De Morgan has written a hook, entitled
From Matter to Spirit (Longmans), where she
gives many interesting particulars, the result of
ten years’ experience in Spiritualism. Professor
De Morgan, President of the Mathematical Society
of London, in his preface to the book, says:—
“ I am perfectly convinced that I have both seen and
heard, in a manner which should make unbelief impos¬
sible, things called spiritual, which cannot be taken by
a rational being to be capable of explanation by impos¬
ture, coincidence, or mistake. So far I feel the ground
firm under me.”
Dr. Hooker, in his opening address, as President
of the British Association at Norwich in 1868,
spoke very highly of the scientific attainments of
Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, F.L.S. Mr. Wallace is an
avowed Spiritualist. Professor Hare, of Phila¬
delphia, the inventor of the Hare’s Galvanic Bat¬
tery, once refused to witness spiritual phenomena,
alleging that Faraday’s “unconscious muscular
action ” theory explained all the facts. A friend
wrote to him detailing things he had seen which
were inexplicable by- that theory. Hare at once,
like a sensible man, went to see for himself. The
result was that he came into communication with
some of his own departed relatives. He then
made mechanical telegraphic machines, which
were intelligently worked by spirits while the
apparatus was screened from the sight of the
medium, and he wrote a book recording all these
facts. That book is now in the British Museum
Library. Judge Edmouds, of New York, is another
very eminent American Spiritualist, who has also
written interesting bpoks on the subject. Recently,
in England, Viscount Adare has written a book
bearing testimony to the truth of Spiritualism, and
it has a preface by Lord Dunraven. This book is
printed for private circulation only, which is an
error in judgment. Valuable evidence in favour
of Spiritualism is given by John Wesley and his
family; for spirit rapping and movements of
wooden materials by invisible agency occurred in
their own house. Documentary evidence of what
they witnessed was drawn up and signed on the
spot, and is published in Southey’s Life of Wesley.
Signor G. Damiani, a Sicilian gentleman living
at Clifton, has written a pamphlet, still in print,
in which he severely censures Professor Tyndall,
Mr. G. H. Lewes, and others like them, for refus¬
ing to investigate the subject. He further offers a
reward of 1,000 guineas to any respectable, scien¬
tific or educated men, who will investigate the
subject and prove it to be an imposture. The
following are his words:—
“ I now offer you two challenges.
“First, I challenge you, or either of you, or any of
the public who, like you, disbelieve in the genuine cha¬
racter of spiritualistic phenomena, to deposit in the
hands of any well-known London banker whom you or
they may name, the sum of five hundred guineas; and
I pledge myself to immediately deposit in the same bank
a like amount,—the ownership of such sum of one thou¬
sand guineas to depend upon my proving by evidence
sufficient to establish any fact in history or in a criminal
or civil court of justice.
First—That intelligent communications and answers
to questions put, proceed from dead and inert matter in
a manner inexplicable by any generally recognised law
of nature.
“ Secondly—That dead and inert matter does move
without the aid of any mechanical or known chemical
agency, and in defiance of all the admitted laws of gravi¬
tation.
“ Thirdly—That voices appertaining to no one in the
flesh are heard to speak and hold rational converse with
men.
“A jury of twenty-four gentlemen, twelve to be chosen
by each party (such jury to consist exclusively of mem¬
bers of the learned professions and literary men), to
decide whether or not the facts contained in the above
propositions are conclusively proved jper testes—i.e., by
witnesses of established character. A majority of
the twenty-four to decide. If the verdict be that these
facts have not been established, the thousand guineas
are to belong to the party accepting this challenge; if
the verdict be that these facts are established, the thou¬
sand guineas to be mine.
“ Secondly—Immediately after the above wager being
decided, either way, I offer a like challenge of five hun¬
dred guineas (to be met on the other side in like manner
as above)—the ownership of the second sum of one
thousand guineas to depend upon the establishment of
the facts contained in the propositions already given, by
experiments conducted in the actual presence of the twenty-
four gentlemen who have decided the previous wager;
the verdict of the majority to decide in this case likewise.
“ In either case, the siances are to be conducted in any
public or private building which the jury may select,
and which may be available for the purpose.
“ The result of these challenges (if accepted and de¬
cided) to be advertised by the vietorious party, at the
expense of the defeated party, in all the London daily
papers.
“ I hope this is plain English.
“ Awaiting a reply to this letter, and to the challenge
with which it concludes, I am, gentlemen; your obedient
servant, G. Hajoani.
“Clifton, Oct. 1,1868.
“P.S.—Letters addressed ‘Sigr. Damiani, care of
Manager of West of England and South Wales District
Bank, Corn-street, Bristol ’ will always reach the writer.”
. In addition to the above evidence, there is the
testimony of numbers that the modern spiritual
manifestations are realities. Mr. Hepworth Dixon
in his New America estimates the number of Spiri¬
tualists in the United States at rather less than
three millions, and this is about the lowest estimate
that anybody has made. There are no accurate sta¬
tistics, and different authorities vary in their esti¬
mates from three to eleven millions.
When reports of the speeches of spirits are printed in this
Journal, non-Spiritualists should understand that spirits
out of the body are wise or foolish, truthful or untruthful,
just the same as spirits in the body. Moreover, they are but
individuals, so do not know everything. The statements of a
spirit are but the assertions of an individual; but by com¬
paring the statements of many spirits, it may in time be
possible to discover in what points they agree, and to sift
out the unreliable communications. Many spirits cannot
see each other, any more than we can see them, and as some
of them are thus in different states of life, it dots not follow
that contradictory messages are therefore untruthful.
Spirits are of different religions, consequently their teach¬
ings do not altogether agree; there is no more uniformity
in the next world than in this one. It is the business of this
journal to report facts, so we are in no way responsible for
the religious, scientific, or any other teachings given by indi¬
vidual spirits.
' HOW 'TO form spirit circles.
An experimental trial at home, among family
friends and relatives, often gives the most satis¬
factory evidence of the reality of spiritual pheno¬
mena. At the same time, as no fully developed
medium is present among those who have never
obtained manifestations before, the probability is
that there will be no results. Nevertheless, it is
a very common thing for striking manifestations
to be obtained in this way at the first sitting of a
family circle; perhaps for every one successful
new circle thus started without a medium, there
are six or seven failures, but no accurate statistics
on this point have yet been collected. When
once manifestations have been obtained they will
gradually increase in power and reliability at suc¬
cessive sittings. The following is a good plan of
action:—
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but
cool rather than warm—let arrangements be made that
nobody shall enter It, and that there shall be no Inter¬
ruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
Wet, damp, and foggy weather is bad for the production
of physical phenomena.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals,
about the same number of each sex. Sit round an un¬
covered wooden table, with all the palms of the hands
in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance.
Any table will do, just large enough to conveniently
accommodate the sitters. The removal of a hand from
the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one
of the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it
sometimes, but not always, very considerably delays the
manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-
pencils and some sheets of clean writing paper on the
table, to write down any communications that may be
obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in
the same circle, for such a want of harmony tends to
prevent manifestations, except with well-developed
physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or
unbelief has no influence on the manifestations, but an
acrid feeling against them is a weakening influence.
5. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage
in general conversation or in singing, and it is best that
neither should be of a frivolous nature. A prayerful,
earnest feeling among the members of the circle is likely
to attract a higher and more pleasing class of spirits.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is
often a feeling like a cool wind sweeping over the hands.
The first manifestations will probably be table tiltings or
raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced
freely, to avoid confusion, let one person only speak,
and talk to the table as to an intelligent being.
Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean
“Yes,” one means “No,” and two mean “Doubtful,”
and ask whether the arrangement is understood. If
three signals be given in answer, then say, “ If I speak
the letters of the alphabet slowly, will you signal every
time I come to the letter you want, aud spell us out a
message? ” Should three signals be given, set to work
on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of .communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we
sitting in the right order to get the best manifestations ?”
Probably some members of the circle will then be told
to change seats with each other, and the signals will be
afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “ Who is the
medium ? ” When spirits come asserting themselves to
be related or known to anybody present, well-chosen
questions should be put to test the accuracy of the
statements, as spirits out of the body have all the virtues
and all the failings of spirits in the body.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms
of other forms of mediumship than tilts or raps
may make their appearance. Information respect¬
ing the many kinds of mediumship will be found
in Mrs. Professor De Morgan’s book, From Matter
to Spirit, published by Longmans; and this is a
good book to read before trying to start a new
circle.
There are in England several very interesting
circles for physical manifestations, where the
spirits speak with audible voices, but, unfortu¬
nately, total darkness is a necessary condition.
Non-spiritualists who are inquiring into the sub¬
ject should have nothing to do with dark seances,
which should be held only by those who know
each other, since they offer so many facilities for
fraud. When any circle regularly obtains power¬
ful physical manifestations, they may desire to sit
for the voices. The very slightest glimmer of
light must be excluded from the room, while the
members of the circle sit round the table in the
ordinary way. One or two paper tubes, each
twelve or eighteen inches long, with an orifice
about an inch-and-a-halt in diameter, should be
placed on the table. They may be readily made
by rolling up a piece or music and tying a few
pieces of cotton round the rough tube thus formed.
In the early stages of a voice-circle these tubes
are necessary for the use of the spirits, but after¬
wards they may be dispensed with except when
the weather and other conditions are unfavour¬
able. When first trying to obtain the voices the
spirits may not be able to lift the tubes from the
table, afterwards they often get them up in the
air a foot or two and let them drop again. When
they get full control over them they can carry
them about up to the ceiling and to all parts of
the room, and they talk to the members of the
circle often while floating about above their heads.
Very beautiful luminous phenomena are some¬
times shown by the spirit's at dark circles. While
sitting for the voices, the spirits will tell by the
ordinary table signals how they are progressing in
their work of getting control of the tubes.
IHE GOOD BUT NOT EXPENSIVE
CLOTHING ESTABLISHMENT.
T. EVEBITT & SON,
26, PENTON-STEEET, PENTONVTLLE, N,
Desire to call attention to their new and well-selected
stock of SPBING AND SUMMER FABRICS.
Fancy Trousers from 14s. 6d.; Black Doeskins from
16s. 6d. (all wool); Frock or Dress Coat from the woaded
fast-coloured cloth, £2 2s.
Style, Fit, and Workmanship guaranteed.
UMAN NATURE, a Monthly Record
of Zoistic Science, Intelligence, and Popular
Anthropology. Becent numbers give full details of the
extraordinary Manifestations through the celebrated
Medium, D. D. Home, Esq., with philosophical reason¬
ings as to the nature and cause of the phenomena: a
new series of lessons on Phrenology and the Tempera¬
ments is being given, containing some new instructions
of great value to the student; first-class Portraits of
eminent men and women, with Biographies and Phreno¬
logical delineations are' frequently introduced; a serial
Tale of great power and beauty; articles on Physiology,
Diet, Temperance, and Health; translations from Con¬
tinental Works and Periodicals; treatises on Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Spiritualism; reviews of Books; reports
of Lectures, Meetings, and Societies, renders this the
cheapest, most varied, and instructive Periodical of the
kind in the world. The fact that this Periodical is en¬
tirely unbiased and devoted to the truth respecting all
the topics on which it treats, is a point not to be over¬
looked by all earnest investigators, whatever their
opinions may be. Post free, 7s. per annum, or 6d. per
month from the Booksellers. James Burns, Progres¬
sive Library, 15,,Southampton-row, Bloomsbury-square,
Holbom, London, W.O.
THE PROGRESSIVE LIBRARY and
SPIRITUALIST DEPOSITOBY has been re¬
moved from Camberwell to No. 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, W.C.
There is a Publishing Office and Shop for the sale of
Books; a Circulating Library of all Works on Spiritualism,
&c.; a Beading-Boom supplied with the Spiritual and
Progressive Publications of the World; a Drawing-
Boom for the special use of Ladies and Subscribers;
Private Booms for Stances, Committees, Meetings, &c.,
and where all information respecting the Cause and the
Progress of events may be obtained.
The Subscription, entitling to all the privileges of the
Establishment, including the use of two Books at a
time from the Library for home perusal, is 21s. per annum
A well-assorted Stock of Stationery, Periodicals, cur¬
rent Progressive Literature, Standard Works, Cheap
Books and Tracts, Planchettes, Materials for Writing
and Drawing Mediums; also Works and Appliances on
Phrenology, Physiology, Health, and Dietetic Reform,
Temperance, Hydropathy, Gymnastics, Mesmerism,
Clairvoyance, Anthropology, Sc., will be kept on sale.
As the responsibilities incurred in establishing this
“ Home for Spiritualism ” and the Science of Man are
very heavy, the Proprietor earnestly solicits the kind
co-operation and support of all who sympathise with
the enterprise. Strangers in London should at once
call at .the Progressive Library, where they may hear of
Lodgings and get other useful information.
J. Burns, Progressive Library, 15, Southampton-row,
Bloomsbury-square, Holbom, London, W.O.
The spiritual magazine, pub¬
lished Monthly, contains all the news of Spiri¬
tualism, and psychological articles by writers of ability.
Publisher, James Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holborn,
W.O.
A COMPLETE Set of SPIRITUAL
MAGAZINES for SALE, besides several Odd
Volumes,
HEYWOOD AND CO., 335, STRAND, W.C.
Where also may be obtained Spiritual Magazine, Human
Nature, Daybreak, and the SPIRITUALIST on day of
Publication, Wholesale and Retail.
JOSEPH BARKER’S AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
Now ready, neatly bound in cloth, price 2s. 6d.
Teachings of experience; or,
Lessons I have Learned on my Way through
Life.
London: Jambs Beveridge, 9, 10, 11, Fullwood’s-rents,
Holborn, W.O.
MR. J. L. OLIYE, Professor of Modern
Spiritual Science, 1, Gibson-place, Warrington-
crescent, Malda Vale, W. Mr. Olive is prepared to afford
information relative to Spiritualism, the Development of
Mediumistic power, &c., with facilities for investigation
of Phenomena. Reliable advice based on large medical
experience, and aided by beneficent Spirit Intelligences,
may also be obtained for the relief of ailments of Body
or Mind. Consultation Fee, One Shilling.
On the first of every month.
THE TRUTHSEEKER, a Review,
devoted to the advocacy of reverent free
thought in matters pertaining to Religion.” Edited by
the Rev. J. PAGE HOPPS. Price Threepence.
London: Triibner and. Co., 60, Patemoster-row. Man¬
chester: Johnson and Rawson, and John Hey wood; and
through all booksellers and agents.
F
EMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
Vice-Patrons:
His Grace the Duke of Argyll, K.T.
Her Grace the Duchess of Argyll.
The Baroness de Rothschild.
The Countess de Noailles.
President:
The Right Honourable the’Earl of Shaftesbury, K.G.
Treasurer:
Henry Charles Stephens, Esq., 171 Aldersgate-street, E.O:
Honorary Secretary:
James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.
Lady Secretary:
Mrs. Blangy.
Bankers:
The London and County Bank, 441, Oxford-street.
The Female Medical Society is established for the
following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated
women in the practice of Midwifery, and the treatment
of the Diseases of Women and Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities
for learning the theory and practice of Midwifery, and
the accessory branches of Medical Science.
Midwifery and the accessory branches of medicine
offer a wide field of honourable and lucrative employ¬
ment for educated women; also a means of intellectual
culture and social usefulness to lajdies who may not be
dependent upon their own exertions. For want of
properly qualified ladies the best portion of the practice
of midwifery has drifted into the hands of gentlemen,
though female practitioners still attend the bulk of the
population. But any person may undertake the duties
of a midwife. Proper means of study have never been
provided for women, and there has never been any
public examination, by which women when well qualified
might be distinguished from those who are illiterate and
unqualified.
The Society has carried on for five years the Ladies*'
Medical College, which has taught the theory and prac¬
tice of Midwifery and the accessory branches of medi¬
cine. Eighty-two ladies have already availed themselves
of its advantages, and many of these ladies are settled
in practice, and succeeding admirably.
A life subscription of ten guineas, or an annual sub¬
scription of one guinea, constitutes a member of the
Society, but stamps or other small contributions will be-
gladly received.
Lady subscribers of not less than one guinea are
invited to visit any Lectures in which they are likely to
be interested.
The addresses of skilled Lady Midwives, Prospectuses,
of the College, and all particulars as to the operations of
the Society, may be obtained of the Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4 Fitzroy-square, W.
Cheques to be crossed London and County Bank.
~VrO. 1 of The Spiritualist is from be-
_Lv ginning to end a compact mass of good evidence
that the facte of Spiritualism are true. It contains a
summary of the evidence given before the Dialectical
Society by twenty witnesses of eminence and ability; it
also gives the testimony of respectable non-Spiritualists;
therefore it is a valuable publication to place in the
hands of non-Spiritualiste, and should be selected for
that purpose rather than later numbers of the same
journal, as the later numbers will run out of print first,
and should be ordered while they are still obtainable by
those who wish to preserve them for binding. A few
copies of No. 1 should be kept on hand for the benefit of
non-Spiritualiste, but later numbers should be retained in.
the possession of the early friends of the movement,
before they become scarce and unobtainable. Covers.
with stringed backs, to keep copies clean till required',
for binding, 2s. 6d. each.
London: E. W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.; or J.
Burns, 15, Southampton-row, Holbom, W.C.
iEontentg.
The Dialectical Society   65
The Weight of Authority     65-
Reforts of Meetings:—St. John’s Association of
Spiritualists.—Inspirational Lecture on the Uses of
Spiritualism  66
Spiritualism in Stratford  66'
Dr. J. B. Newton’s Deception.—The Restoration of
Sight to the Blind—The Immediate Cure of a Dying
Man last Sunday in Liverpool—An Anecdote by
LordLytton—Dr. Newton’s first Visit to England—
Overwhelming Evidence at Philadelphia of the
Reality of Dr. Newton’s Healing Powers—The Use
of Faraday’s Discoveries—Cure of Paralysis—The
Love of the Spirits to Man—Mr. S. C. Hall on
Spiritualism      67
Private Stances.—Mr. Pearce's Circle—Dedication of
Children to the Care of Guardian Spirits — A
Family Circle Unbroken by Death 68
Leader :—Seeing Mediumship...  69
Poetry:—Aristocrats     70
Correspondence : — Freedom of Expression of
Thought—The Bible Spiritualism Controversy ... 70
A Year Book of Spiritualism—The late Mr. Robert
Shaw      71
Spiritualism in Bradford 71
More Spirit Photographs    ... 71
Paragraphs:—Mr. Home's Readings, 65; Spiritual
Periodicals, 68; The Transmission of Messages by
Spirits, 68; Halifax Psychological Society, 69;
Spirit Messages, 69; Services in the Cavendish
Rooms, 69; Mr. Morse's Mediumship, 69; The
Dialectical Society, 71; Mr. J. M. Peebles, 71;
Changes in the Earth's Surface, 71.
Answers to Correspondents   ... 71
Printed for the Proprietor by James Beveridge, at the
Holbom Printing Works, Full wood’s Rente, High
Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-above-Bar and
St George the Martyr, London, and published by E.
W. Allen, Ave Maria-lane, London, E.O.
