AND JOURNAL
OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
[BEGISTEBED FOB TBANSMISSION ABBOAD.]
No. 154.—(Vol. VII.—No. 6.) LONDON: AITOUST 6, 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence.
orontems.
The Spirit of Man in the Fire-Mist   61
Spirit Teachings. No. XXXVIII  62
Conditions Favouring Successful Spiritual Manifestations ... ... ... 64
Spiritualism in Dalston   ...    ... 64
Beturn to England of Mrs. Kate Fox Jencken and her Medial Chil¬
dren :—The Writing Mediumship of Infants—Seances in New York—
Miss Beecher obtains a Test from a Baby Medium—A Child Four
Months Old Speaking under Spirit Influence—Manifestations
through Mrs. Jencken’s Mediumship at Branting Hotel, New York
—News brought by an Apparition, ...   66
Coming Additions to the Literature of Spiritualism  67
Brixton Psychological Society:—Alliance of the Brixton Society with
the National Association—The Library—The Secretary’s Beport—
Miscellaneous Business    ... ... 67
Sunday Services at the Cavendish Booms:—Biblical and Modern’
Spiritual Manifestations—Table Manifestations — Spirit-Lights—
Spirit-Writing—Spirit-Touches—Healing Mediumship—Liberating
from Bonds—Materialisation Manifestations—Levitation ... ... 68
Our Mediums, and How to Treat Them. By J. J. Morse  69
Provincial News:—Liverpool—Newcastle—Sowerby Bridge—Morley... 70
A Good Test Seance with Mr. Williams    70
Mr. Peebles at Home   3  71
The Nature of the Mind       71
Spiritualism in America   M ... 72
Answers to Correspondents     72
Paragraphs:—Passed to Spirit Life, 67; Spiritual Phenomena in
Austria, 69; Good Workers in Spiritualism, 72; A Pic-Nic of
Spiritualists, 72; Buies of Spiritual Societies   ... ... 72
East London spiritual meetings. — lec-
TUBES giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Booms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Foue pee Cent. Inteeest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.'
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FEAN CIS BAVENSCEOFT, Manager,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
. SPIRITUALISTS.
The Beitish National Association op Spieitualists is formed to unite
Spiritualists of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposal
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to rhake known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of, every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiritualists held in Liverpool, at which
all the great Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five shillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Peesons wishing to join the Association, and local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested io communicate with Miss Kislingbury,
Besident Secretary, at the offices of the Association, 38, Great Bussell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom copies of the Constitution and Buies
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GEEAT EUSSELL-SBEET, BLOOMSBUEY,
RE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
connected with Spiritualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
in addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by the best authors.
Terms to members: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-mentibers, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance-room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the,Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTFITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK.
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
JBas a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
umbrellas.
PARIS.—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
WORKS BY THOMAS LAKE HARRIS.
THE GREAT REPUBLIC: a Poem of the Sun. 6s.
THE BREATH OF GOD WITH MAN. Is. 6d.
ARCANA OF CHRISTIANITY; The Apocalypse. Vol. I. 6s. Cd.
THE MILLENNIAL AGE. 2s. 6d.
LONDON SERIES OF SERMONS. Is.
Wholesale and Retail by John Thomson, 39, John-street, Glasgow.
Sold also by Mbs. Connor, 15, Fairclough-lane, Liverpool.
BEYERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on pplication.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the sum of £20 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject
The probable effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition of Society. ,
Second Prize, £10.
The competition is open to aU British born or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists
The essays to be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1875, to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.G., of
whom further particulars can be had on application.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
BY ALLAN KARDEC.
. Translated into English by Anna Blackwell.
Price 7s. 6d. Postage 3d.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.
Lately Published, Crown 8vo., Price 3s. 6d.,
QON, REMEMBER; An Essay on the Discipline of the
IO Soul beyond the Grave. By the Rev. John Paul, Rector of St.
Alban's, Worcester.
“ Such a work will be warmly welcomed by all Spiritualists, and espe¬
cially by those who seek and find in Spiritualism a firm basis for moral
and religious teaching.”—Spiritualist, March 25th, 1875.
Published by H, K. Lewis, 136, Gower-street, London,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 6, 1875,
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn,. Charles, Parkfleld, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Here ford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman. Benjamin, 1, Berriard-villasj Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fiiz-Q-erald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregor?, Mrs. Makdougall, 21. Green-street Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, j. M„ M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchmati, William, M.It.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryamston-sqnare, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer, Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Pinchley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Armfield, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 205, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 1, King Ed ward-street, Liverpool-road, Islington, N.
Beattie, John, 2, Bichmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, Betchworth, near Reigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chiunery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Goll'ey, Rev. Thos.. 11, Belle Vue terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, B.A., Red-hill, Surrey.
Cooper, R., Vienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vahbrugh-park-road Blaokheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N. W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fifz-Gerald, Desmond G„ M.S/ Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
FItz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Fredman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20,.Delamere-crescent, Westbourne-square, W.
Hudson, Geo, Ijouis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
James, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W.
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E.. 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm. Brvham,!, King-square, Goswell-road, E.O.
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., Werwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow, E.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C. T., M.R.C.S., 19, N ottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk. N.W.
Pearce, Richard, Percy-cottage, Pellatt-grove, Wood-green, N.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N. 1
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D.1, &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 2.9,• Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Sirawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. O., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood. Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H.,. M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3* Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square. Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms. St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withall, H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs,, Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin R. Smith, Esq., Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
• Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq.,38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
, Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-Genera!!, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.1.1’Empereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
Pacha Ahmed Rassim, Khande Rassim Pacha, h Bahdje Capousson, Con¬
stantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid."
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles Esq., Hammontou, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New York, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esq., Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 356, West Thirty-second-street, New York,
U.S.A
A. J. Riko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
C. Constant, Esq., Hotel St. Marc, Milan, Italy.
Dr, Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
Gregor O. Wittig, Esq., Nurnberger Strasse 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epea Sargent, Esq., Box 2.985. Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Clinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M F. Clavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria,
G. L. Ditson, Esq., M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
W. L. Sammons, Esq., Cape Town, South Africa.
J. Murray Spear, Esq,., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 11, Rue d’Anieres, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Luther Colby, Esq, 9, Mqnrgomery-place, Boston, U.S.A.
M. de Bassompierre, 285, Chaussee St. Pierre, Etterbeck, Brussels.
M. A. Anthelme Fritz, President de 1’Union, 67, Rue du Midi, Brussels.
Lieut.-Col. P. Jacoby, 11, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
Allied Societies.
The Liverpool Psychological Society. Secretary—Edward Hope, Esq.,
74, Russell-street, Liverpool.' ,
L’Union Spirits et Magnetique. Secretary—M. Charles Fritz, 121, Rue de
Louvain, Brussels.
MR. C. E. WILLIAMS, Professional Medium, is at
present on the Continent. Letters addressed to him at 6i, Lambs
Conduit-street, Holborn, London, will be forwarded.
m/rRS. WOOLFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
JLvJL MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing. Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.C.
PROFESSOR REGAN, ELECTRO-MAGNETIC
HEALER, is now open to give treatment to Patients at his resi¬
dence, or their own, by appointment. , Fee, One Guinea. Address 59, Fin-
boro’-road, Retcliffe-gardens, South Kensington.
MISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
T Y. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Rbgisteb your Letters.
Mr. j. j. morse, inspirational speaker,
is now on a_ Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon 'as engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—War wick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
TyrRS. OLIVE, SPIRIT MEDIUM, 49, BELMONT-
-LvJL STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
IkTOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
jLv of Curative Mesmerism (10 Years Established), attends patients
daily, from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis'of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tybrman,
Price Threepence. To be had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
ndall Australian Booksellers.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on,
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly. •
T> EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
Ji_w7 fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
VOJ-UjVIE £EVEJ\(. JHUJV1BEE ^IX.
LONDON, FRIDAY, AUGUST 6th, 1876.
Cjxe Spintalist
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS : — Half-a-crown
for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and sixpence for
every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures count as one
word. Displayed Advertisements Fiv? Shillings per inch. Eoduced terms
for extended periods.
The, Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russ ell-street, London; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
communications for the Literary Department should be addressed to the
Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
Editor’s Office, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of '•'•The Spiritualist'" in \
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should alwhys be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered ofhim.bypost, direct.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the branch offiee of
Mr. J. Selwood, 38, Great Russell-street, London, W.O., by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London, is one shilling.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PRICE TWOPENCE.
' ESTABLISHED IN 1869.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.R.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.B.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Mr. H. G. Atkinson,
F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston. U.S.); Sir Charles Islam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Church,
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Yay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. O. Luxmoore; Mr. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B. A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason : Mr. N. Fabyan Da we;
Herr Christian Reimers; Mr. Wm. White (author of the Life of Swedenborg);
Mr. J. M. Gully. M.D.; the Rev. 0. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London-, Mr. S. C. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jeccken, M.R.I., Barris
ter-at Law; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M. A., LLM.; Mr. C.
Constant (Srmrna); Mrs. F. A, Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury ; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States) ; Mr. W.Lindesay Richardson,
M D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
HERE ARE THE DEAD? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fredk. A. Binney. Price 3s.
London -Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
THE SPIRIT OF MAN IN THE FIRE-MIST.
As “ an argument is never answered at all until it is
answered at its best,” in like manner can nothing be
gained on bebalf of any cause by tbe misrepresentation
of the position of its criticisers. In the lower literature
of Spiritualism and in the utterances of a few trance
mediums, the same meaning is not uncommonly applied
to the words “ science” and “materialism,” which are
used as if they were convertible terms; yet science
means merely “ accurate knowledge,” and men of
science, although unorthodox, are not, as a rule,
materialists. There is a broad and deep gulf between
men of science and atheistical secularists; as a rule
they are not on terms of intimacy with each other;
they possess neither platforms nor periodicals in
common, and for the most part are unknown to each
other, even by name, except that the lights of science
are many and of world-wide reputation, whilst the
lights of secularism are few.
As a striking example of a popular error in the
direction just indicated, attention may be called to the
freedom with which the words “ atheist ” and % mate¬
rialist ” are hurled at Professor Tyndall. Among those
of his uttei%nces which are supposed to justify this, is
the one in which he states it to be an open question
whether the intellect of man has been evolved from
the fire-mists from which our earth was condensed—
whether, in short, the genius of unborn Shakespeares
is latent in the flames of the sun. According to the
nebular theory, a great fire-mist which once extended
from the present solar centre to beyond the boundaries
of Neptune gradually cooled; as it cooled and con¬
densed it left the planets behind, until finally the solar
system reached its present stage. As the hot worlds
gradually cooled, rain and river acted upon their sur¬
faces, low forms of vegetation made their appearance,
succeeded in turn by higher. Then came the lower
forms of the animal kingdom, and afterwards, by a
process of slow development, came more perfectly
organised beings, until at last these culminated in the
evolution upon our globe of the human race. A por¬
tion of the truth of this position is proved by geology,
which shows how the higher forms of life succeeded the
lower. The present heated state of the centre of the
earth is indicated by the researches of the British Asso¬
ciation Committee on Underground Temperatures. Year
by year this committee records the increase of tempera¬
tures at great depths wherever a boring, amine, or a
tunnel gives an opportunity for sinking a thermometer,
and it is invariably found that below a certain point
where surface temperatures no longer exert an influence
the heat increases with increased depth. If it continues
to increase at the same rate at depths which man
cannot reach, then it is certain that a few scores of
miles below the surface of the earth a temperature is
reached at which granite and all metals known to man
would melt.
Thus if the process of creation of this earth has
62
THE SPIRITUALIST.
been one of evolution, if tbe bigber animals and vege¬
tables succeeded tbe lower, and if when tbis globe was
in an igneous volcanic state no animals or vegetables
existed at all—further, if this red-hot globe was ori¬
ginally condensed from a great nebular fire-mist, it
follows as a matter of logical sequence that if tbe in¬
tellect of man was evolved side by side with bis
physical surroundings, that the foundations of that in¬
tellect must be in the fires of the sun. But does an
assumption of this kind make a man either an atheist
or h materialist ? If the words of the inspired medium-
poet be true—if
Every atom is a living thought,
Dropped from the meditations of a God,—
is there anything more derogatory to the Deity in sup¬
posing that these wonderful incomprehensible atoms
should by the evolution of their interior powers, by
action" and interaction upon each other, gradually
develope, and unfold, and transform, and combine them¬
selves, until the result of their fairy growth is the
beautiful world in which we live ? Is there anything
more unspiritual in the idea that the powers of the
human soul were gradually developed in inseparable
alliance with matter, than in believing that they never
had any alliance with matter until the moment that
they began to develope themselves in the organism of
a child ? In both cases the great First Cause remains a
mystery, and difference of opinion as to the probability
whether the human soul entered into alliance with
matter a little sooner or a little later, offers no ground
for ignorantly hurling opprobrious epithets at intellects
which the uninformed aggressors are unable to com¬
prehend. "When the charge of materialism is hurled
by the unthinking at most of the philosophers of our
day, the latter do not step aside from their work to
refute the misrepresentation; indeed, they perhaps do
not altogether dislike the prevalent error, seeing how
definitely in the public mind it serves to separate them
from the theological order of thought. Still it is none
the less a truth that the men who by study and ex¬
perience have gained such a deep knowledge of the
majesty of nature, and of the marvellous working of
the laws of God underlying the phenomena of the
universe, have a deeper and broader comprehension of
the Almighty and His works, than most of the unin-1
formed people who hurl undeserved epithets of oppro¬
brium at their devoted heads.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
no. xxxvur.
[/ asked a question as to that interval of time between
the records of the Old and New Testaments of which we
have no account in the Bible.~]
Of that age you have no record, because the influence
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
DOuglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John's-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. _ Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
find the individuality remains throughout the same,—Ed.
Aug. 6, 1875.
of the Spirit was withdrawn save in cases of rare in¬
fluence rarely exerted. We do not dwell on that,
because we wish to point out the grand chain of
spiritual influence from Melchizedek to Jesus. Sufficient
now that you know that it was a period of darkness
and desolation and spiritual dearth, after which we
were again enabled to awaken in the minds of men an
expectation of dawning light. The first ray of light
shot across the world—that portion of it with which
alone , we are now concerned—when men were led to
feel their blindness, and to look onward to a time when
the pall should be lifted, and the light should shine again.
It is ever so with the races of men. Though the
corporeal may so far assert itself from time to time
that the spiritual be to all appearance completely
eclipsed,- it is not actually so. The period of darkness
gives place to dawning light, and the spiritual germ
asserts its existence. The spirit-power is renewed, and
man awakes to the knowledge of divine truths higher
than he had before conceived. It is as with the man
who has laid him down to rest, tired with the labours
of the day. Darkness has gathered around him; his
spirit is chafed and wearied with toil; his body tired
and worn. Gloom outer and inner settles on his
spirit, and he falls into sleep. Tired nature is restored,
the wearied mind is recuperated, and he wakes again to
find the bright sun shining with its blessed beams upon
him. Elasticity returns to mind and body, and his
spirit rejoices in the life and beauty that surround
him. The joy of the morning is come.
Even so it is with the spiritual experiences of the
generations of mankind. Then come epochs when the
old spirit-teachings which were so satisfying pall on the
understanding. The mind of man wearies itself with
questionings. The material side of humanity predomi¬
nates. Doubts and difficulties creep in, take root, bear
fruit. One truth after another is questioned, one fact
after another denied, until man feels that the blessed
sunlight of Divine truth is being vailed from his eyes.
The sun sinks below the spiritual horizon, and the night
of inaction, and weariness, and thick darkness begins.
The Spirit of God strives not; the night of ignorance
and gloomy despair reigns, and the spirit-messages bide
their time, waiting for the moment when the sleeping
souls shall stir again and turn towards the light.
Sure as that man’s spirit is not dead but sleepeth, that
moment comes, and in the dawning of the morn the
messengers of God sing their anthem of praise to Him
who brings light and joy out of darkness and despair.
Such period intervened between the spiritual epoch
which closed with the Old Testament record and that
when the voice of the forerunner sounded. Such has
recurred in days immediately preceding your own. We
are directing you to the dawn, and doubt not that it
shall be now as ever, that the morning shall be one of
increased knowledge, of extended experience, of more
assured belief. The morning light shall be stronger and
clearer than.the twilight that has preceded it. Only wait
and watch. Be ready to catch the inspiration lest it fail
and pass away, and you turn again to slumber, and the
opportunity be lost.
[J inquired whether such a period of darkness in¬
variably followed one epoch of revelation and preceded
another.]
It is necessary to be more precise. It is not always
a period of darkness, but at times a period of rest and
repose after excitement and deep stirring. To borrow
again an illustration from your earth. The body needs
Aug. 6, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST. 63
repose for a periodt)f assimilation. So much of truth
has been given as the world can assimilate, and the
process goes on till more is needed. The craving
precedes the revelation.
[Then revelation is more from within—subjective ?]
The internal craving is correspondent to the external
revelation: we have said before that man cannot
receive more than he is prepared for. He is gradually
led by spirit-guidance to a higher plane of knowledge,
and then, when the need is felt, advanced and progres¬
sive information is given to him. Those of you who
have questioned whether man does not evolve
for himself a theoretic or speculative system which
comes entirely from within, are not informed as to the
operations of the Divine messengers. At the very
outset of our information to you we explained that
man was only the vehicle of spirit-guidance. What he
wrongly imagines to be the evolution of his own mind
is in reality the outcome of spirit-teaching which acts
through him. Some of your greater minds have
wandered near the truth when they have so speculated.
Did they but know enough of spirit-teaching to. be
aware of the influence that acts upon them, they would
be far nearer the truth than those who have fancied
that their Bible contains a complete and infallible
Revelation, to which nothing will ever be added, and
from which no scrap may .ever be removed as useless.
It is not necessary for practical purposes in your life on
earth to speculate on the exact correlation between
man’s mental action and God’s revelation. You may
easily bewilder yourself by vain attempts to separate
the inseparable and to define the indefinable. Sufficient
that we tell you that spirit-preparation precedes your
knowledge, and enables the progressive mind to evolve
for itself higher views of truth, those very views being
not the less the very voice of the messenger of truth.
And so revelation is correlative with man’s needs.
It is to us curious how perpetually man seeks to
define his own part in our work. What if we use the
readiest means to our hand, and, instead of keeping to
the sterile work of acting without human agency, in¬
fluence the mind and mould the thoughts of those whom
we influence? Is that a less noble and profitable work
than producing some curious phenomenal action apart
from human means—as the juggler who astonishes and
amuses by apparently inexplicable tricks ? We have
done enough to show an independent action. Cease to
tie down our work by confining it to so narrow a
groove, and learn to receive the impressions which we
can convey to the mind, and which will be all the more
vivid because we find material stored up there. You
need not fear that we shall find there anything which
will supersede the necessity for our teaching.
[Scarcely. But I want to keep my own individuality
out of the question. And, on wider grounds, many great
thinkers have doubted the possibility of Divine revelation
at all. They argue that man cannot receive what he
cannot understand, and that no external revelation can
make a home in his mind which he could not have evolved
jor himself.']
They are answered fn what has be'en already written.
You will see as time goes on how wrong is such con¬
clusion. We do but protest against the mechanical
nature of the work to which you would condemn us.
Even when you imagine your own mind to be most
assuredly acting you err, for there is no such thing
with you as independent action. You have always
been guided and influenced by us.
[Some days after the above communication I asked as
to some conclusions to which I had come in reading over
the Gospels with the new light which I had received. I
seemed to see them in a new light altogether. I wondered
ivhether my conclusions were true and whether they were
new.]
The result is in the main correct. The conclusions
are not new. They have been reached long ago by
those who have been enabled to cast aside trammels
and pursue truth without clogs and fetters. It has
been given to many.
[Then why cannot I read their works ? It would save
trouble.]
Better that you should arrive by your own paths at
the results, which you may then compare with the
conclusions of others.
[You always work so. It seems roundabout. If this be
so, why was 1 allowed to live so long in error ?]
We have told you already that you were not fitted
to receive truth. Your past life—which has not been
so long as you imagine—was a careful preparation for
progress. It was in its day useful and progressive,
but only as leading you on to higher planes of know¬
ledge. The time will come when you will look back
on this too, which now is new and strange, and
wonder how it could have seemed to you so startling.
Life—the totality of your being — is progressive
throughout, and its early stages are but preparatory
to its later development.
Theology was a necessary phase in your training,
and we were both unwilling and unable to prevent
you from taking erroneous views. Be content to
pursue your present path. It has been one of our
chiefest difficulties to uproot false dogmas from your
mind. It has been a steady work, and now we hope
that you may find out much respecting the question of
revelation which will enable us to clear away false
opinions and infuse true knowledge. We can do little so
long as traditional reverence for any mere words, how¬
ever venerable in their associations, is implanted in
your mind. We must wait till you can appreciate at
its real value each utterance made through man,
whether that utterance be contained in your Bible
or not. So long as you reply to our arguments with
a text we cannot teach you. Any one who can so
reply is beyond reach of reasonable teaching.
There are many points to which you may well
direct your mind in the life and teachings of the Christ
before we throw upon it the light which we are able
to give. Your study of the records of His life may
lead you to discuss the question of their reliability;
the source from which they were derived ; the autho¬
rity which they claim. You may deal with such
questions as these: the account of the incarnation ;
the atonement, as grounded on the words first of
Jesus, and then of those who spoke in His, name ;
the miracles ; the crucifixion and resurrection. You
may ponder these points : the teaching of the Christ
about man’s duty to God and his fellow as compared
with ours ; Jesus’ views on prayer, and those of His
followers ; the duty of resignation and self-abnegation
as put forth by Him and them; charity ; pardon on
repentance and conversion; heaven and hell; reward
and punishment.
On such questions, as these you are now prepared to
enter honestly. Prior to this you would have sought
only to find a preconceived conclusion. Weigh first
the validity of the^ records. Settle the exact weight
64
THE SPIBITUALIST.
Aug. 6, 1875.
to be given to their statements ; and then select the
teaching of Jesus in such way as you would select the
teaching and system of a Socrates, a Plato, or an
Aristotle. Translate Eastern hyperhole into sober
fact. Estimate the utterances of enthusiasm by calm
reason. Cast aside that which is merely legendary,
mythical, or traditional, and dare to walk alone, un¬
trammelled by any bonds, and unfettered by dread of
any conclusion at which you may arrive. Dare to
trust God, and seek for truth. Dare to think soberly,
calmly, about revelation.
To such a seeker shall come a knowledge of which
he little dreams; a comfort which no creed of tradi¬
tion can afford. He will know of God and of His truth
as none can know who has not trodden the path of
personal investigation. He will know of things
Divine as. the traveller knows of a far-off country
when he has himself visited it and lived amongst its
people. Round him will centre the ministry of
enlightenment, the guidance of the spirits whose
mission it is to proclaim truth and progress to man¬
kind. Old prejudices will fall away; old fallacies
will shrink from the new light into congenial darkness;
and the soul will stand unbound in the presence of
Truth. Be of good cheer. Jesus it was who said :
The Truth shall make you free, and you shall be
free indeed.”
[J said it was ivorth any cost, if attainable. I was
not sanguine, and rather grumbled at being left to
grope.]
h We do not leave you. We help, but we may not
save you from personal labour.. You must do your
part. When you have laboured, we will direct and
guide you to knowledge. Believe us, it is best that
you do this. In no other way can you learn the
truth. If we told you you would not believe us, nor
would you understand. There is much outside of this
question of the Christian revelation that you must look
to; other Divine words ; other spiritual influences;
but not yet.
Cease : and may the Blessed One illuminate you !
+ Imperator.
CONDITIONS FAVOURING SUCCESSFUL SPIRITUAL
MANIFESTATIONS.
A letter by Mr. O’Sullivan recently published in
The Spiritualist about Mr. Firman’s seances in the
presence of Parisian lawyers, raises the question
“ What are the conditions which most favour the
evolution of physical manifestations?” We have not
seen that ‘‘timidity on the part of the manifesting
spirits ” has much to do with success or failure in the
result, unless the spirits have never used the method
of communication before, so do not think that Mr.
O’Sullivan’s ideas about the timid nature of certain
spirits was an important element in the case.
One very influential condition favouring good mani¬
festations is that the medium shall be thoroughly com¬
fortable and happy, and have full confidence in all the
spectators present, so as to easily pass into the uncon¬
scious trance state, without the slightest fear of the
occurrence of anything disagreeable. Tricks played
by rough persons at seances might result in the medium
waking in the next world instead of this one. Another
favouring condition is that the medium shall have had
no seance in the earlier part of the day, because all
manifestations drain the vital powers of the medium,
and if these powers are drawn upon during the first
part of the day he may not recover his full vitality by
the evening. A third condition, attention to which
often results in splendid seances, is this—that the
medium shall go to bed in the middle of the day, after
a good meal, and take several hours’ sound sleep;
then,- when thus thoroughly refreshed in mind and
body, only a light meal, such as tea, should be taken
before the seance.
Lastly, if there is any break or interval in the seance
during the evening, the medium should go out into the
open air for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. If
the conditions are good, materialisation manifestations
during the first part of the evening are usually ten
minutes or a quarter of an hour before they begin; but
if there is a break in the seance of say fifteen or thirty
minutes’ duration, when the medium afterwards enters
the cabinet again the materialisation will begin almost
at once—in fact, in the very act of shutting the cur¬
tains or door of the cabinet a spirit-hand and arm
may come out and clutch the observer who is doing it.
At dark seances, if the spirits have once got up the
power, lights may be struck very frequently at times
when they give permission, yet the manifestations will
begin again the instant the lights are put out, the phe¬
nomena being in no way weakened apparently by the
interval of absence of darkness. Thus when the
spirits have accumulated power from a medium in
the dark, there appears to be a great deal of that power
hanging about him afterwards in the light. The move¬
ment of solid objects without being touched, and other
strong manifestations which sometimes occur in the
light, are more likely to occur if the circle sits pre¬
viously for a quarter of an hour in darkness, and all
the other conditions which are known to favour mani¬
festations are supplied.
Another point may be mentioned in relation to the
recent seances with the lawyers in Paris. A medium is
a mesmeric sensitive, and if those about the medium
encourage him by asserting very positively that the
seance is certain to be a success, it will do a very great
deal towards bringing about that result; whereas, if
they talk seriously to the medium, pointing out how
important it is that the seance shall be successful, thus
inducing a state of anxiety of mind about the results,
it is one of the surest methods of stopping manifesta¬
tions altogether.
SPIRITUALISM IN RALSTON.
On Thursday evening last week the tenth half-yearly
general meeting of the Ralston Association of Inquirers into
Spiritualism was held at their Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, London. A letter from Mr. Henry D. Jencken, bar¬
rister-at-law, expressing his regret at his inability to attend,
was read by the secretary, Mr. Blyton, after which Mr. R.
Pomeroy Tredwen was unanimously invited to take the chair.
The notice convening the meeting having been read, the
minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
The Chairman then read the report of the Council, from
which the following are extracts:—
“The Council have the pleasure of reporting that Mr.
Henry D. Jencken, M.R.I., accepted the presidency offered to
him pursuant to the resolution adopted by the members at
the last general meeting, and was accordingly elected. The
question of the appointment of a honorary secretary and
treasurer, which was also referred to the Council, has resulted
in the election of Mr. Thomas Blyton to that office.
“ The working of the association during the past half-year has
not been so successful financially as the Council could have
desired. The statement of accounts, as certified by the
auditors, Messrs. R. P. Tredwen and R. Cocker, shows the
THE SPIRITUALIST.
65
Aug. 6, 1875.
receipts during the past six months—inclusive of the balance
of £2 10s. 3£d. brought forward from the previous half-year—
to amount to £16 Os. 7id., and the expenditure £19 3s. 2id.,
leaving a balance due to the honorary treasurer of £3 2s. 7d.
The deficiency arises from a loss in connection with the fourth
anniversary meeting, when the expenses were exceptionally
heavy. Donations have been received from,Mr. A. M. Greene,
of £2 2s.; Miss Kislingbury, 10s.; Miss Lottie Fowler, 10s. ;
and ‘ a Friend,’ 10s. The stock account of the association
amounts to £19 Os. 7d., as compared with £13 16s. lOd. on
31st December last.
“ The association has, however, in other respects continued
to maintain its ground. During the past six months five
applications for membership have been accepted from Captain
John James, Miss Grace, John Francis Gaudin, J. W. Far-
quhar, and J. Tozeland. Notices of resignation have been
received from Messrs. S. Gillins, A. Joy, E. Luck, T. McCor¬
mick, and A. M. Greene.
“ In accordance with powers invested in the Council under
rule VII., the following have been elected as honorary mem¬
bers, viz.: Mrs. H. D. Jencken, Miss Kislingbury, Mrs. and
Miss Showers, Mr. and Mrs. J. J.’Morse, and Mr. and Mrs.
George Sexton, Mr. Thomas Shorter, Rev. F. R. Young, Mr.
and Mrs. W. E. Bassett, Miss Lottie Fowler, Mr. C. E.
Williams, Mrs. C. Woodforde, Mr. John Rouse, Mr. and Mrs.
W. Towns, Mr. and Mrs. F. M. Parkes, Mr. James Webster,
Mr. Frank Herne, and Mr. R. Cocker, many of whom have
rendered the association valuable assistance in various ways
at different times.
“ The attention of the Council has been directed to mea¬
sures for augmenting the advantages derivable from member¬
ship, and it has much pleasure in reporting co-operation on the
part of Mrs. Catherine Woodforde, Mr. Charles E. Williams,
and Mr. F. M. Parkes, who have agreed to charge to members
of this association only one-half the fees charged by them to
the general public, which very liberal concession offers in¬
creased facilities for observing the phases of mediumship
possessed by those well-known professional mediums.
4< The total number of members on the register on 30th
June last was as follows, viz. : life members, 5; honorary
members, 26 ; ordinary members, 27. Total, 68.
“ The library has been well patronised, many valuable
additions having been made during the past half-year. The
whole of the English Spiritualist newspapers and magazines
have been regularly supplied for the reading-room.
“ Special features of an interesting and instructive character
have been provided from time to time during the past half-
year as under, viz.:—
“ On 14th January the fourth anniversary of the associa¬
tion was commemorated by a soiree dansante, which was held
at the Luxembourg Hall, and presided over by Dr. George
Sexton, in the unavoidable absence of the president elect.
The proceedings were enlivened by speeches, music, singing,
recitations, and dancing. Many articles of interest to
inquirers into Spiritualism were exhibited by various friends.
Counter attractions at that time, however, caused the attend¬
ance to be somewhat smaller than was at first anticipated, and
the only source of regret was the deficiency incurred in the
accounts in connection with this meeting.
“ On the 22nd February, Mr. William H. Harrison, honorary
member, editor of The Spiritualist newspaper, read a paper
upon his earlier experiences in Spiritualism before a very
fair attendance of members. The author has since thoroughly
revised the paper and added fresh matter thereto, and is
about to publish it in a separate form to meet the demand for
it both at home and abroad.
“ On the 25th March ,a paper upon ‘Inherited Mediumship’
was read by the president, Mr. Henry D. Jencken, M.R. I.,
which gave rise to some interesting recitals of facts bearing
upon the subject. The memoir was reported verbatim in The
Spiritualist newspaper.
“On the 30th April, Mr. Charles E. Williams, honorary
member, gave a most satisfactory seance, at which among
other manifestations the well-known form of John King was
seen to advantage. The rooms were on this occasion very
crowded, which tended in a great measure to limit the extent
of the manifestations. Much satisfaction was expressed on all
sides with the results obtained.
“ On the 31st May and 7th June, two special seances were
contributed by Mr. Bassett, honorary member, and non¬
professional medium. Both seances were eminently successful,
the manifestations observed on each occasion being exceed¬
ingly interesting and instructive.
“An offer has been accepted from Mr. J. J. Morse,
honorary member, the well-known English trance medium, to
deliver a lecture upon his ‘Experiences in America’ on his
return home about October next. It has also been determined
to incorporate the fifth anniversary meeting in connection
with this lecture by Mr. Morse, and the Council hope that the
members will exert themselves in aiding the executive in
ensuring a successful issue.
“ A paper has also been promised by Mrs. Showers, honorary
member, but has been postponed until the current half-year.
“ With the view of further promoting the objects of the
Association, the Council recommend the members to institute
regular seances at their private residences, and to invite such
of their fellow-members as they may desire to join them;
the results obtained at such seances to be reported to the
Council from time to time, and the fullest information to be
given in all cases. The Council trust that those members
who are able to act upon the recommendation will do so, and
thus aid the work of the Association to their utmost. Members
are also earnestly invited to contribute records of any facts
coming under their personal observation, which should be
attested in the most complete manner possible; and to lay
before the Association any papers upon subjects connected
with Spiritualism, in order that every possible, information
bearing upon the object of our inquiries may be accessible to
the Association.
“ The Mesmeric Committee have had several sittings
during the past half-year. Mr. R. Cocker, Mr. Thos. Wilks,
Mr. A. E. Lovell, Mr. Thos. Blyton, Mr. G. W. F. Playfair,
and Mr. J. Tozeland have been added as members of the com¬
mittee. A few successful experiments have been made by Mi’.
Cocker. It is the opinion of the committee that more time is
desirable than has up to the present time been devoted
to actual experiment. The committee purpose carrying on
weekly meetings for experimental labour, and invite such
members of the Association as are interested in mesmeric
research to join them without delay.”
The Chairman moved that the report be adopted; this was
seconded by Mr. Tapp, and carried unanimously.
The officers of the society for the past half-year were
unanimously re-elected. A new member of Council, Mr. Tpze-
land, was appointed.
Mr. Thomas Blyton moved that the title of the Society be
altered from “ The Dalston Association of Inquirers in’.o
Spiritualism,” to “ The Dalston Association of Spiritualists.”
He said that the society had been inquiring into the matter
for five years, so that it ought to have come to a decision on
the matter by this time.
Mr. Wilks seconded the motion.
Mr. Harrison said that it ought to be altered, if only because
the present title was so long and unwieldy as to occupy two
lines of print. It had been said that alteration of the title would
prevent persons from joining who were not Spiritualists, but
in the case of the National Association of Spiritualists friends
sometimes joined it who were not Spiritualists, for the sake of
investigating, so he did not think the objection had practical
weight.
Mr. Tapp objected to the change of title ; he thought that
the 'change would deter people from joining; besides, the old
title had worked very well for five years. He would move that
the present title be retained.
Mr. G. W. Forbes Playfair seconded the amendment. He
said that the title had induced himself and friends to join the
society, so it might have a similar effect upon others who were
new to the subject.
Mr. Harrison said that he thought that if Spiritualists
called themselves Spiritualists in the face of day it would have
a good moral effect, the subject being unpopular and demand¬
ing pronounced support. Would it not be as well, therefore,
to change the title, even supposing that the society did lose
one or two members ?
The Chairman said that he thought that the calling of
themselves “ inquirers ” exerted a good moral influence.
Mr. Blyton thought it was a farce to go on calling themselves
inquirers ; it was a little like sailing under false colours.
A division then took place, and an overwhelming majority
was in favour of retaining the old title.
It was resolved that the weekly day of meeting of the
society should be changed from Friday to Tuesday.
The proceedings then closed with the usual gotes of thanks.
Mr. Martheze left for the Continent at the close of last
week.
Mr. Christian Reimers has paid a visit to Mr. Wittig at
Leipsic, and is now in Switzerland.
66
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 6, 1875.
RETURN TO ENGLAND OF MRS. KATE FOX
JENCKEN AND HER MEDIAL CHILDREN.
THE WRITING MEDIUMSHIP OF INFANTS—SEANCES IN NEW YORK
—MISS BEECHER OBTAINS A TEST FROM A BABY MEDIUM—A
CHILD FOUR MONTHS OLD SPEAKING UNDER SPIRIT INFLUENCE
—^MANIFESTATIONS THROUGH MRS. JENCKEN’S MEDIUMSHIP AT
BRANTING HOTEL, NEW YORK—NEWS BROUGHT BY AN APPA¬
RITION.
Mrs. H. D. Jencken, through whose mediumship the mani¬
festations of modern Spiritualism first began in America, and
who left London for New York, accompanied by her medial and
singularly gifted child, in the autumn of last year, returned
to Europe per steamship Wisconsin some few days ago, bring¬
ing back with her her eldest-born, Ferdinand Loewenstein
Jencken, aged two, and a second son who promises, like
the eldest, to inherit the mysterious gift of mediumship from
his mother, Kate Fox. Epes Sargent says, in his recent work
entitled Proof Palpable of Immortality, “ that modern Spirit¬
ualism was initiated by the action of the child Kate Fox
seems to admit of no doubt.” He adds further on, “ the
discovery made by Kate Fox, however, was productive of con¬
sequences that can only be estimated by the growth and future
influence of modern Spiritualism.” This Spiritualism, with
all its lighter and its darker phases, imperatively calls upon
men and women to pause and think, and this for the simplest
of all reasons, namely, that each and all of us is travel¬
ling onward to the realms of the undiscovered, the unknown,
dreaded future. In fact, once proven, Spiritualism commands
attention on the grounds of a universal common interest.
It is this which gives importance to spiritual manifestations,
and naturally tends to .confer upon the history of Kate Fox,
with whom this movement commenced, and her two baby
boys, an exceptional character. Hence it may be of interest to
learn how these mediums have behaved, and what has happened
duzing their visit to New York, so the particulars have been
kindly furnished us by Mr. and Mrs. Jencken for publication in
this journal.
Of the doings of the eldest-born the following is a true
account. From his earliest days he showed marked medial
powers ; when only five months old he wrote long messages in
a clear handwriting; he was carried from one room to another
by an unseen being; he was rocked in his cradle and attended
by spirit-forms, to the horror of his nurse. Full details of
these occurrences have already been published in The Spirit¬
ualist. The parents of this infant medium, however, fearing
that his health might suffer, kept back all medial development,
and tried to prevent the manifestations taking place; but,
despite their efforts, the spirits had their way—the manifesta¬
tions would happen.
Soon after the arrival of Mrs. Kate Fox Jencken and her
firstborn in New York, at the residence of Mrs. Jencken’s
brother-in-law, Dr. Underhill, Ferdy, for so he is called,
wrote the following message in the presence of his aunt, Mrs.
Underhill, the celebrated Leah Fox : “ Grandmamma (that
is—Mrs. Fox) is here,” and then throwing down the paper and
pencil commenced talking to her, and laughing and smiling at
the spirit-forms he alone could see. On several other occa¬
sions he wrote whilst staying at the house of his aunt. An
attack of scarlet fever and diphtheria, however, for a time put
a stop to his powers, the dread disease threatening to sever the
life cord of the poor little fellow. Slowly, however, he
recovered, and with his returning strength his medial powers
came back to him. He would speak to unseen beings, call
his father by name. On one occasion he wrote a long mes¬
sage to the following effect: “Dear papa is ill, very ill.”
This was true, and not known to Mrs. Jencken at the time.
In the month of May last Miss Catherine Beecher, sister of
Mrs. H. B. Stowe, and of Henry W. Beecher, called on Mrs.
Jencken, anxious to witness the writing of the infant medium.
Mrs. Beecher had provided herself with paper and pencil for
the occasion, but Mrs. Jencken refused her request to allow
her boy to write, being fearful of trying the strength of her
infant son. The child, however, got hold of the pencil and
paper and wrote in a clear handwriting the word “ Henry”
Miss Beecher could hardly control her surprise. It appears
that she had put a mental question to the effect that Henry,
her nephew, the son of Mrs. H. B. Stowe, might communicate, ■
and received -in reply the written answer, “ Henry.” On
another occasion, whilst sitting on the knees of Mr. Robert
Murray, of New York (Mrs. Jencken was absent at the time),
Ferdy commenced conversing with Mr. Murray, who is well
known in New York, and told him that his son was there;
continuing the conversation with Mr. Murray for some
few minutes, he gave him some most interesting information.
In his own home the medium boy is, as might be expected,
only the baby boy; but every now and again the wondrous
powers of this strangely endowed child manifest themselves,';
his luminous eyes, as once described by his father in these
pages, brighten into quite a lustre of soft light; he will stretch
out his hands to catch his playmates—the unseen—whom he
greets with smiles and caresses. Frequently the spirits will
take his little foot, as they years ago used to do with little
Kate Fox, and make it stamp on the floor or knock against the
table ; or they will move his tiny hand. At first this mode of
communication was not understood, but on questions being
put, the presence of an intelligent spiritual being was proven
beyond doubt. To make certain, his mother requested that he
should be made to rap seven, then five times, or answer ques¬
tions. In reply to questions not addressed to him, but spoken
in a low tone, which of course the little two-year-old could not
understand, he then with his feet would rap out answers. The
fact that his hand and his foot were moved by spiritual beings
was further proved by the dear little fellow showing his ankle
and saying ‘ ‘ There, there! Hurt, hurt! ” pointing to the spot
where a spirit-hand had grasped him. Instances of the power
of this child could be multiplied, but enough has been said,to
all but justify a belief that part of the prophecy given out by
the spiritual beings in the winter of 1869 may be realised.
We quote from Epes Sargent, treating on “ The Proof Palpable
of Immortality.” In alluding to Kate Fox—her reliability,
her powers, and her child, he cites a prophecy concerning her
boy which was given at the house of Mr. H. P. Townsend six
years ago : “ Kate will be married and will bear a child who
will be the wonder of the world. Kate will be a cipher in
comparison; she will only be remembered as his mother.”
“ His mother ? ” said Mrs. Townsend; “ it is to be a boy! ”
A few words in reference to the second-born son of Kate Fox
may perhaps be also of interest. Ever since the birth of
“Henry Loewenstein Jencken—for this is the name he is to
bear—he has shown remarkable precocity; to see spirit-forms,
and to laugh and smile at them, is of daily occurrence with
this baby boy. When not four months old he was influenced
to speak, and in reply to Mrs. George Taylor (the wife of Dr.
G. Taylor, of New York), who asked the baby boy whether he
saw the spirit-form of Mrs. Taylor’s uncle, he said “ Yes, I do.”
It will be asked, whether no record has been kept by the
mother, in whose presence spiritual manifestations are of daily
occurrence. To render a faithful narrative of the phenomena
through the mediumship of Kate Fox (Mrs. Jencken) even for
one year, would fill a small volume. Only a few instances, as
reported by herself, will now be mentioned. In May last Mrs.
Kate Fox Jencken was standing at the window of a room at
Branting Hotel, New York, when raps spelt out that a mes¬
sage would be given by direct writing. A sheet of paper and
a pencil held in the hands of Mrs. George Taylor were taken by
the spirits, and carried outside the window into the space be¬
yond, and this in broad daylight. The same day, but in the
evening, the sheet of paper, which had been previously care¬
fully marked by Mrs. George Taylor, was brought back by an
unseen agency, and placed in the hand of Mrs. G. Taylor, Dr.
Taylor being present. This document is now in the possession
of Mrs. Taylor. The communication on the paper was in a
clear handwriting, every “ i ” dotted and every “ t ” crossed.
Exceptional interest attaches to this document, as containing
information relating to private matters of Mrs. Taylor’s.
On several occasions direct writing has been obtained.
Since Mrs. Jencken’s return, a series of questions written out
by Mr. Jencken were answered by direct writing. One more
instance of Miss Kate Jencken’s powers, and this narrative
must come to a close. A few days before her departure for
Europe, Mrs. Jencken, who was staying at Mrs. Taylor’s, was
aroused by repeated knocks at her door; on opening it a lady
stood before her, dressed in mourning, looking pale and life¬
less ; she said that she had called to see Dr. George Taylor,
whose aid she urgently needed, as some terrible accident had
happened. Little Ferdy, at this juncture, struggled to get out¬
side of the room into the passage; on turning to stop
the child, the figure of the lady suddenly vanished. A
moment later a coloured servant of Dr. Taylor’s household
came to the door and said that Dr. Taylor was sorry he could
not come up, but that he was engaged. No message had in
fact been sent, and Mrs. Jencken, by this time thoroughly
alarmed, requested Mrs. Taylor to come up to her. No sooner
had Mrs. Taylor arrived when raps spelt out, “ Otto has been
injured, and is now lying in a dying state at the hospital. I,
his second wife, come to ask Dr. Taylor to go to his aid and save
him.” Mr. Otto was one of the inmates of the hotel. The
Aug. 6, 1875
THE SPIRITUALIST.
67
same evening brought the news that Mr. Otto had been in¬
jured, was lying severely injured at the hospital, where he died a
few hours later from the effects of the injuries he hadf received.
No one at the time of the appearance of the spirit-form of the
late Mrs. Otto knew of the accident. This instance is one of
many which have happened to Mrs. Eate Fox Jencken, and is
so far of interest as affording evidence of the knowledge of
facts by spiritual beings unknown to the medium, or any one
near her at the time.
But it is time the narrative of one short year’s experience of
this medium mother and her two medial children should be
brought to a close. Whether the life of Ferdinand Loewen-
stein Jencken, and that of his younger brother, will be spared,
the future alone can tell; exceptional care, no doubt, will be
needed to rear these children, but should their lives be spared,
it is just possible the prophecy of 1867 may come true.
THE TRIAL OF M. LEYMARIE.
By Electric Telegraph.
Paris, 12.20 a.m. Thursday.
Six Judges sat in the Appeal Court to hear M. Leymarie’s
case. One appointed as rapporteur about the former trial,
gave in a report strongly hostile to the innocent accused.
Lachaud’s arguments on the other side were powerful; these,
together with the fresh evidence, caused judgment to be post¬
poned till Friday [to-day]. The delay is considered here to
be a good augury.
[Directly the Verdict reaches London to-morrow (Saturday)., it will
he posted up for public information in the Reading Room of the
National Association of Spiritualists, 38, Great Russell-street.']
COMING ADDITIONS TO THE LITERATURE OF
SPIRITUALISM.
Two or three months ago it was stated in these columns that
a large depot for the sale of Spiritual literature would be
opened at the branch office of The Spiritualist newspaper, 38,
Great Russell-street. This has since been done; at the present
time nearly every book published in America in connection
with Spiritualism is obtainable at the above address.
The first step in connection with home book publishing at
the new office will take place next week, when the first of a
series of standard shilling books in connection with Spirit¬
ualism by our best writers on this side of the Atlantic will be
issued. These books will be handsomely printed on toned
paper, with limp cloth covers, and as during the past six years
all the best English writers in connection with Spiritualism
have contributed their writings almost exclusively to The
Spiritualist, if their articles are revised, partly re-written, and
arranged in connected order, we have all the elements at com¬
mand to bring out a series of cheap books which are likely to
be of great value to the spiritual movement. The series will
be called “ The Spiritualist Library.”
Cheap pamphlets and leaflets for distribution are in prepa¬
ration, and will be published shortly.
M. C. Constant, late of Smyrna, has taken up his
residence at Milan. His present address is 4, Via Marone.
Last Wednesday night a meeting of Spiritualists and
others for discussion was held at 90, Church-street, Padding¬
ton, under the chairmanship of Mr. Drake. Mr. Charles
White, Mr. Hooker, Dr. and Mrs. Hallock, Mr. Henly, and
others, addressed the listeners.
A long- series of experiments by Mr. C. F. Yarley, Mr.
Charles Blackburn, and Mr. W. H. Harrison, has been made
in connection with problems raised by the discovery of odic
flames from magnets, as seen by Baron Reichenbach’s clair-
voyantes. The particulars will be published shortly in these
pages.
Passed to Spirit Life.—On Friday, the 30th of July,
Mr. N. D. Mellis, beloved by all who knew him. His earthly
remains were interred on Sunday morning at the Victoria-park
Cemetery, where a number of Spiritualists assembled. Miss
Young gave an appropriate inspirational address over the
grave. Two hymns were sung. A number of attentive
listeners witnessed the farewell rites.
BRIXTON PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Last Tuesday night the second half-yearly meeting of the
Brixton Psychological Society was held at 6, Loughborough-
road North, Brixton, under the presidency of Mr. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald. There were also present Dr. Ponder, Miss
Ponder, Miss E. D. Ponder, Mrs. Rudd, Mr. G. R. Tapp, Mrs.
Fitz-Gerald, Miss Withall, Miss H. Withall, Mr. Francis, Miss
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. Francis, Mrs. Gunyon, and Mr. W. H.
Harrison.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed.
ALLIANCE OF THE BRIXTON SOCIETY WITH THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION.
The Chairman said that he thought it to be expedient that
their society should ally itself to the National Association of
Spiritualists. Miss Kislingbury, the secretary to the National
Association, had already been elected a honorary member of
the Brixton Society.
Miss Withall moved that application be made to the British
National Association of Spiritualists to admit the Brixton
Psychological Society into alliance with the National Asso¬
ciation.
This was seconded by Miss E. D. Ponder, and carried unani¬
mously.
THE LIBRARY.
Mr. Tapp said that two propositions had been before the
Society—one was that it should borrow books on Spiritualism
from Mr. Burns’s establishment, and the other that it should
create a permanent library of its own. The Dalston Society
had established a permanent library, and found that many
members joined for the sole purpose of getting the loan of
books: therefore the library was a permanent source of strength
to the society. He would consequently move that steps be
taken to establish a permanent library.
Mr. Harrison said that Dr. Dixon that morning had pointed
out to him an excellent method whereby a society with limited
funds could quickly get a library. Some of its members should
form themselves into a book club, and when the members of
the club wanted any new book quickly, they should buy it, and
share the expenses between them—on the understanding that
after they had all finished reading it they should present it to
the larger society to which they all belonged.
After some discussion of points of detail it was resolved
that steps be taken to form a permanent library for the society,
and that works on Spiritualism and kindred subjects would
be thankfully received by the secretary.
THE SECRETARY’S REPORT.
Mr. Francis, the new honorary secretary, made a general
statement about the position of the society, and after a few
introductory remarks said—
“ The society was resuscitated in February,1876, and enrolled
about thirty members. A general meeting has been held, at
which an interesting and valuable essay, by Mr. FitzGerald,
was read, and from the text of which I have adopted the
motto of this society, viz., ‘ Unde ? Ubi ? Quo?’ Private
discussions have been held, and various private seances, the
results of which, as far as I can discover, have not been com¬
municated, but as yet no very great step has been taken to
make the general public aware of the existence of the Brixton
Psychological Society. I would now make a few suggestionB
with regard to the present position and future action of this
society. We appear to be but few in number, but this is not
a matter for discouragement, as more practical good is done
by a few earnest workers than by a great number of mere
idlers. ’Tis the little leaven that leavens the whole mass, and
that on account of its own innate and ever vitalising power.
We had better, as a society, have those among us as members
who are earnestly disposed to foster and disseminate the
glorious truth it is formed to investigate, than those who join
only from idle curiosity and mere amusement. I think it
therefore but right to impress upon the members the ne¬
cessity of only proposing those for membership whom they
believe to be actuated by a desire to possess communications
and to share the highest knowledge.
“ With regard to private seances, I would suggest that results
be communicated to the society, for this reason—the science
of modern Spiritualism is but yet in the very infancy of its
existence, and the aggregate of the certainties of every es¬
tablished science have been made up of the small individual
discoveries of its professors. It is by noting down in the
plainest possible language, without any attempts at embellish¬
ment, any abnormal fact, and comparing it with other expe¬
riences, that the professors of psychology will be enabled to
68
THE SPIRITUALIST.
classify and determine the laws under which the phenomena
are produced, and thus explain much that appears false and
even ridiculous ; imposition from unworthy professors is thus
rendered impossible; incredulity silenced; over-credulity un¬
necessary : because every class of fact will be able to stand
the test of a fixed and certain law. It is my own belief that
the laws by which the chemist is enabled to govern and direct his
researches and experiments are not more unalterable and less
reliable than those governing spiritualistic science.
“Another suggestion I would make is with reference to public
lectures.- I certainly think the time has come when they should
be given in this neighbourhood. And here I am not for boldly
giving that class of lectures which offends all so-called orthodox
minds by making deadly war on their most cherished preju¬
dices, and raises much opposition, almost unassailable. I
Relieve more in a persuasive gentleness, without hypocrisy—
the thin end of the wedge, that admits the small ray of a
glorious light, too dazzling in its entirety, perhaps, for the
world that is not accustomed thereto. Lectures then should
be given that lead up to Spiritualism rather than declare it,
and which by degrees promote a spirit of inquiry, and a
desire to investigate. I hope the society will, in the course of
the ensuing autumn and winter take steps to inaugurate a
course of lectures on matters connected with spiritual science.
“In conclusion I wish to state that as far as my time will
allow me I will endeavour to promote the welfare of this
society, of v>hich I have the honour to be the secretary, and
shall at all times he most happy to render to each and all of
its members any information and assistance it is in my power
to offer.” (Applause.)
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS.
Various minor matters were then discussed, amongst others,
.whether the distribution of tracts on Spiritualism at church
doors would be considered by the orthodox as an aggressive
line of action.
Mr. Tapp thought that it was aggressive. He always thought
when a tract was put into his hand by a street preacher,
treating him as a “ gone coon,” doomed to something un¬
pleasant hereafter, it was an act of aggression.
Mr. Harrison said the more orthodox tracts were gene¬
rally headed “Poor Sinner, where are you going to?” or
“ Buttons for Believers’ Breeches.”
The Council was recommended to avoid an aggressive line
of action in distributing tracts.
In the course of a discussion about mediums, Mr. Fitz¬
Gerald said that Mrs. Gray, one of the members of the society,
possessed powerful but delicate and easily disturbed medial
powers, especially valuable from a pathological point of view.
Shortly afterwards the proceedings closed.
SUNDAY SERVICES AT THE CAVENDISH ROOMS.
Db. Sexton is delivering discourses every Sunday evening
at the Cavendish Booms, Mortimer-street, Begent-street.
He began this work on the last Sunday in June, and will con¬
tinue until the end of September. Miss Sexton presides at the
organ, and the choir consists of Mr. and Mrs. Williams, Mrs.
and the Misses Parkes, Miss Dixon, Miss Barber, Mrs. Cook,
and Mr. H. P. Smith. A few more volunteer voices are desired
in the choir.
BIBLICAL AND MODERN SPIRITUAL MANIFESTATIONS.
Dr. Sexton delivered an able discourse, in the course of
which he said:—
TABLE MANIFESTATIONS.
There are phenomena recorded in the Bible again and again
of a character exactly analogous to many of the manifestations
which take place in connection with modern Spiritualism.
Even the trivial manifestation of table-rapping would seem to
be referred to. In Psalm Ixix. 22, 23, we have the following:
“ Let their table become a snare before them : and that which
should have been for their welfare, let it become a trap. Let
their eyes be darkened, that they see not: and make their loins
continually to shake.” Paul makes reference to this as
follows:—“And David saith, Let their table be made a snare,
and a trap, and a stumbling-block, and a recompense unto
them: let their eyes be darkened, that they may not see, and
bow down their back alway ” (Bom. xi. 9,10). Now I am
very far from saying that these passages must necessarily
refer to anything analogous to the table-rapping of modern
times, but they would certainly seem to point in that direction,
and to imply that some kind of consultation was sought with
the table.
Aug. 6; 1875.
SPIRIT-LIGHTS.
• Of spirit-lights we have several illustrations. There is the
smoking furnace and lamp of fire seen by Abraham, the
burning bush that was not consumed, the pillar of cloud by
day and fire by night, which guided the Israelites, and the
cloven tongues of the day of Pentecost. In the case of the
conversion of St. Paul, too, there was both light and a voice,
and what is very singular, the light was seen but the voice was
not heard by those who were present, a circumstance which, if
it happened to-day, would cause the light to be ascribed to
trickery, and the voice to imagination.
SPIRIT-WRITING.
Spirit-writing is illustrated by the following passage in
Dan. v. 5 : “ In the same hour came forth fingers of a man’s
hand, and wrote over against the candlestick upon the plaster
of the wall of the king’s palace : and the king saw the part of
the hand that wrote.” This, I need hardly say, is exactly
analogous to what occurs in our own day when there is direct
spirit-writing, sometimes in languages which none of those
present can read.
SPIRIT-TOUCHES.
Daniel received strength from a spirit touch, as the follow¬
ing passage testifies: “ Then there came again and touched
me one like the appearance of a man, and he strengthened
me ” (Dan. x. 18).
HEALING MEDIUMSHIP.
Palpable effects were frequently produced by inanimate ob¬
jects—a circumstance which, when it occurs to-day, is fre¬
quently made the occasion of great ridicule. In 2 Kings xiii.
21 there is a record of a dead man being restored to life
through being touched by the bones of the dead prophet
Elisha : “And it came to pass, as they were burying a man,
that, behold, they spied a band of men ; and they cast the
man into the sepulchre of Elisha : and when the man was let
down, and touched the hopes of Elisha, he revived, and stood
upon his feet.” And in Acts xix. 11 and 12 the following
circumstance is recorded: “ And God wrought special miracles
by the hands of Paul: so that from his body were brought
unto the sick handkerchiefs or aprons, and the diseases de¬
parted from them, and the evil spirits went out of them.”
LIBERATING- FROM BONDS.
The loosening of Peter and his escape from prison also con¬
stitute phenomena bearing on this case. In Acts xii. 7-10
you find: “ And behold, the angel of the Lord came upon him,
and a light shined in the prison: and he smote Peter on the
side, and raised him up, saying, Arise up quickly. And his
chains fell off from his hands. . . . When they were past
the first and the second ward they came unto the iron gate that
leadeth unto the city, which opened to them of its own accord ;
and they went out, and passed on through one street, and
forthwith the angel departed from him.”
MATERIALISATION MANIFESTATIONS.
Then take materialisation. This is one part of Spiritualism
which is scorned and laughed at very much. But look at
Ezek. ii. -9, 10: “And when I looked, behold, a hand
was sent unto me; and, lo, a roll of a book was therein: and
he spread it before me : and it was written within and with¬
out : and there was written within lamentations, and mourn¬
ing, and woe.” Further, in Josh. v. 13 you find written:
“ And it came to pass, when Joshua was in Jericho, that he
lifted up his eyes and looked, and, behold, there stood a man
over against him with his sword drawn in his hand: and
Joshua went unto him, and said unto him, “Art thou for us,
or for our adversaries? ” “And the angel of the Lord stood
by the threshing-floor of Oman the Jebusite.” “ And David
lifted up his eyes, and saw the angel of the Lord stand between
the earth and the heaven, having a drawn sword in his hand
stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders of
Israel, who were clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces ”
(1 Ghron. xxi. 5, 6). In these cases and many others that
might be quoted, not only do spiritual beings appear in the
shape and character of man, but they have in their posses¬
sion objects, apparently, of a material character. If a spirit
came at the present day with a sword in his hand, we should
be asked where he got the sword, and whether it was a ma¬
terial one or a spiritual one, together with many other such
frivolous questions. The three angels seen by Abraham are
not only described as men, but they actually ate and drank,
and the angel that wrestled with Jacob was sufficiently ma¬
terialised to dislocate the patriarch’s thigh.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
69
Aug. 6, 1875.
LEVITATION.
‘ A most interesting case of levitation is recorded of Ezekiel
on the occasion of his being lifted by the hair of his head
and floated away to Jerusalem. “ And he put forth the form
of a hand, and took me by a lock of mine head; and the
spirit lifted me up between the earth and the heaven, and
brought me in the visions of God to Jerusalem, to the door of
the inner gate that looketh toward the north ” (Ezek. viii. 3).
When he arrived at the temple, after being thus carried
through the air, there stood before him seventy spirits, de¬
scribed as men, which in reality they were, but men who had
lived and passed away from earth long before Ezekiel’s time.
“ And there stood before them seventy men of the ancients of
the house of Israel, and in the midst of them Jaazaniah
the son of Shaphan, with every man his censer in his hand ”
(Ezek. viii. 11).
On another occasion, being carried thither as before, he saw
five-and-twenty men, being the spirits of people who had
lived, and who had been prominent personages at an early
period of the history of Israel. “ Moreover the spirit lifted
me up, and brought me unto the east gate of the Lord’s house,
which looketh eastward: and behold at the door of the gate
five-and-twenty men ; among whom I saw Jaazaniah the son of
Azur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people ”
(Ezek. xi. 1).
Then there is the case of Philip, with which you are all
familiar. “ And when they were come up out of the water,
the Spirit of the Lord 6aught away Philip, that the eunuch
saw him no more: and he went on his way rejoicing. But
Philip was found at Azotus: and passing through he preached
in all the cities, till he came to Cassarea ” (Acts viii. 39, 40).
Last Sunday evening there was not a very large attendance
at Dr. Sexton’s lecture. The hall was a6out half full, and
several well-known Spiritualists were present. Mr. Parkes
read a chapter from the Bible and gave out the hymns, which
were selected from the Free Christian Hymn Book, and were
of a much more orthodox nature than those usually heard at
Spiritual meetings., One of the hymns sung seemed rather
to favour the dogmas of eternal punishment and total de¬
pravity ; it led the singers to describe themselves as wretched
“ worms.” No questions were allowed to be put at the close
of the discourse, and very properly too, for contention and irre¬
levant questions are out of place at Sunday evening services,
otherwise there was temptation to ask whether Dr. Sexton
believed in total depravity, and whether he considered himself
to be a wretched “ worm.”
OUE MEDIUMS, AND HOW TO TREAT THEM.
BY J. J. MORSE.
It is by no means a fortunate occurrence for the majority of
individuals who investigate the phenomena of spiritual com¬
munion, if, in so doing, they should develops signs of medium-
ship. Not only are they often alarmed thereat themselves,
and for the time being thrown alarmingly out of balance, but
the conduct of their relatives and friends is such as to at
times really complete what has already been run the risk of
personally, i.e., a final overthrow of mental stability. Should,
however, the individual be strong-minded enough to prosecute
the development of the mediumship, and afterwards be forced
into a public position as a medium, it is then that the onerous
nature of the charge comes fully home, in such a manner, too,
as will test the endurance of the person to the very utmost.
Friends and relatives will think you demented, or else gene¬
rously taunt you with knavery, and the public at large will
accuse you of imposture, and, being a new medium, Spirit¬
ualists will too often receive you but coldly and with suspicion.
And as you go through it all you will sometimes feel forced to
say with the poet, , *
“ Alas! for the rarity
Of Christian charity
Under the sun.”
And the experience of many mediums has given colour to
another verse from the same source :
“ oh* it was pitiful,
In a whole cityfull
Home she had none!.”
Indeed, mediums are the Christs of this age, and their
crosses are heavy in very truth. They are for a great and
mighty purpose; their lives- are strange and sad enough to
themselves without our increasing their burdens by unwise,
unjust, or ill-natured criticism; and when that criticism comes
from quarters least expected, an added poignancy is given to
it, which only those who feel it can describe.
Without the aid of mediums where would have been the
evolution of spiritual phenomena, which has conferred so much
happiness upon countless thousands in the world during the
last twenty-seven years? Echo answers, Where? And have
not these very mediums often been abused and traduced as
much within our ranks as outside thereof ? No wonder, then,
that mediums refuse to come out; that they prefer to remain
unknown, when, did they but appear upon the stage, the
audience would probably amuse itself by pelting them off.
Why, just think of the time when your souls were filled with
anguish and despair, and when your hopes were “ all gone
cold,” and you turned for consolation in the hour of your be¬
reavement to the Church! Ask yourself how much the
Church ministered to you then! The hopes it held out to you
were indeed poor, for without some proof of the immortality
of the ones you had lost, the consolations of the Church could
never have appeased the hunger of your souls. Contrast that
time with the present! Now you know that immortality is
an eternal truth. Does hot that fact confer a happiness and
peace upon you, the like of which you never received before ?
Your sufferings are assuaged, your investigations crowned with
success, and you thank God that you have had the courage to
press on along the path that some kind finger pointed you to.
Ofttimes frail in body and in health, always sensitive in
mind and soul, misunderstood of nearly all, shrinking and
delicate, the life, of mediums is by no means an enviable one.
An unkind word or look will often crush them like bruised
rosebuds, and though it may be sport to the hand that does
it, it is death to those who experience it.
It is not to be expected that the world will have much
regard for these tender flowers in the gardens of our cause.
The world does not feel the need of them, and besides, it
has been so trained in the material that it looks upon the
spiritual as either foolish or fraudulent; but we should know
better.
As a medium, as one who has felt the need of the sym¬
pathies of his fellows, as one who scorns this tendency to
hunt down and hound out and damn the weakest—the most
wicked, if you will—in the world, I protest against this whole¬
sale condemnation as being against the genius of our gospel,
no matter to whom the condemnation be applied. Let us set
the example of lifting up the erring, and endeavour to lead
them into better and brighter paths; let us be full of hope
for their future, and inspire them therewith; then we shall
win the admiration of the world outside of us, and prove that
our confidence in innate goodness and eternal progression is
not so much empty mouthing.
I plead that our mediums receive at the hands of our num¬
bers more of sympathy, love, and trust; for who needs it more
than they ? Are not mediums the very pillars whereon our
cause rests ? Considering the more than priceless boons
mediumship has conferred upon all Spiritualists, how great,
then, is their duty to love and sustain those agents who have
been the means of bringing to them so much good!
All Spiritualists of any experience know how much care is
requisite in the development and practice of mediumship,
and they know it is far easier for an investigator to cry
“ fraud,” or “ humbug,” than it is for the accused to refute the
charges. Shrinkingly sensitive, the accusation paralyzes the
accused ; the mediumship is thus radically disturbed, and so
is closed the very avenue through which the refutation alone
could come. Let, then, all writers, Spiritualists and sceptics,
use all caution in investigating; but also remember that
kindness and sympathy are not inseparable from human nature,
and while they do not “aught extenuate,” let them “set
naught down in malice,” and it may be they will reveal that
the truth is mighty and must prevail, and mediums may be
spared in the future the injustice and unkindness they too
often meet with in the present.—Banner of Light.
Mr. E. Corner and Mrs. Corner (Florence Cook) are in
Cardiff.
Spiritual Phenomena in Austria.—A letter from
Baroness Von Vay informs us that one of the leading mem¬
bers of the Austrian Anthropological Society, who takes a
deep interest in the phenomena Of modern Spiritualism, is
investigating Miss Lottie Fowler’s newly-developed physical
mediumship. She adds that physical manifestations, such
as direct writing and the floating of musical instruments, take
place while the medium is securely bound to her seat.
70
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 6, 1875
^robtnctal jBtetoa.
LIVERPOOL.
Meeting at the Psychopathic Institute.—Mr. and Mrs. Hardy
liad a brilliant reception at the new rooms of the Liverpool
Psychopathic Institute last Sunday. Among the prominent
Spiritualists present were Captain and Mrs. Waterman, Messrs.
John and Archibald Lament, Dr. Hltchman, Mr. and Mrs.
Carson, Mr. and Mrs. Whingate, Mr. and Mrs Gay, Mr.
and Mrs. Pennington, Mr. Meredith, Miss Hilton, Mr. Isaac
(mesmeric healer), Mr. James Coates, of the Psychopathic
Institute, also Mr. Mahoney and Mr. Smith, of Birmingham,
Two hours were pleasantly spent in the comfortable parlours
of the Institute. Mrs. Hardy has already won the hearts of
the Liverpool friends by her disposition, and the observations
of Mr. Hardy were received with pleasure. During Sunday
Mrs. Hardy gave several private sittings, all of which
gave entire satisfaction.
Open-air Mission.—The now familiar face of Mr. Coates was
seen surrounded by a large number of attentive listeners at
the Monument last Sunday. The subject of his address was,
—“ Why do not Men of Science Investigate the Claims of
Modern Spiritualism ? ’’ Three opponents appeared in the
held, who laboured diligently to argue out of existence the
facts of Spiritualism from the eternal sky of truth, and
signally failed. Mr. Mahoney, of Birmingham, ably exposed
the foolishness of such an attempt.
The Psychological Society.—Mr. Mahoney’s addresses were
favourably received. The subject last Sunday afternoon was,
—“ The Dense Ignorance of the Masses as to the Facts and
Phenomena of Modern Spiritualism,” and in the evening,—
“ Spiritualism—Is it a Delusion ? ” The subjects were well
handled, and the lecturer labours from love to the cause.
A hearty vote of thanks was given him at the close of each
lecture.
HEWCABTLE.
Messrs. George and John Smith, of New Delavel, are earnest
workers in the cause of Spiritualism in that district, and
several of the family show encouraging signs of mediumship.
A few orthodox Methodists have formed a circle at Wan-
shaw’s bottle works, St. Laurence, Newcastle, and they have
two good trance mediums among them, viz., Messrs. Craig
and Robson; they do not cultivate any other form of medium-
ship, being under the impression that physical manifestations
are evil.
Newcastle Newspapers on Spiritualism.—A discussion is now
going on in the Newcastle Weekly Chronicle on the question,
“ Is Mind a Substance ? ” and has been taken up by both
Spiritualists and materialists. The Chronicle published last
week a reply from Mr. Rhodes, containing extracts from Mr.
Serjeant Cox’s paper. He referred readers to The Spiritualist
newspaper and to works on Psychology bearing on the subject.
The same paper also quoted from The Spiritualist Mr. Morse’s
poem, “I may not be a Prophet.” The Northern Daily
Express generally notices anything for or against Spiritualism.
SOWERBY BRIDGE.
The New Lyceum.—The Spiritualists of Sowerby Bridge
have erected a building of their own in which to hold Sunday
services and week-day meetings. It is a plain stone structure,
which will accommodate about five hundred people; there is a
very large platform, which will hold a hundred. In the lower
part of the building are rooms for seances, school purposes,
and so on. Several cottages belonging to the local society
were erected at the same time as the hall. The rent of the
cottages does not clear all the expenses connected with the
paying off the money borrowed to pay for the building, and a
plan is under consideration of selling the cottages to clear off
the remaining portion of the debt. Sunday services are held
regularly in the building. One of the most active workers
connected with the movement at Sowerby Bridge is Mr. Har¬
wood, of Brierly, near Luddenden Foot.
Sunday Lectures.—Mr. F. R. Young, of Swindon, recently
took Dr. Sexton’s place one Sunday evening at the Cavendish
Rooms, while the latter speaker was at Sowerby Bridge. Dr.
Sexton had been invited to open the Spiritual Lyceum there
twelve months ago, but was unable to attend ; consequently,
application was made to him to deliver two discourses in the
new hall on the occasion of the first anniversary. The sub¬
jects taken were—“ The Claims of Modern Spiritualism to
Public Attention,” and “ The Objects of Spiritualism Stated
and Examined.” The audiences were the largest that ever
assembled in the place, and the collections on the two occa¬
sions amounted to nearly £18. >
MOBLEY.
Lecture by Dr. Sexton.—The day after his visit to Sowerby
Bridge Dr. Sexton went to Morley, and found the Spiritualists
there in a state of excitement in consequence of some lectures
by the Rev. T. Ashcroft, who had violently attacked Spirit¬
ualism and some of its followers. When Dr. Sexton lectured,
Mr. Ashcroft was invited to attend, but did not do so, but
some of his friends who were there took part in the debate at
the close of the lecture. All traces of ill-feeling were absent.
There is a nice little society at Morley, and the most active
workers in it are Mr. Bradbury and Mr. and Mrs. Butterfield.
A GOOD TEST SEANCE WITH MR. WILLIAMS.
Mr. George Fraser, of Ugie Bank, has contributed the
following account of a seance to the Buchan Observer:—
“ The special feature of this seance was that every possible
precaution was taken to secure the absence of fraud. My
friend Edwin Ellis, a landscape painter, whose works have
earned him a high reputation, and promise to rank him one
day amongst the masters of his art, is well known in London
as an enthusiastic Spiritualist, but one, nevertheless, who has
done his utmost to unmask sham manifestations. He has
incurred much obloquy amongst the professional mediums
because of this unhappy trait in his character; and on one
occasion, where the ‘ manifestors ’ were somewhat more
unscrupulous than usual, he ran great risk of his life. He and
I take different views of the importance of Spiritualism, but
he has always been anxious to obtain for me some genuine
evidence either for or against it. When, then, he suggested
that we should arrange for a private seance with Williams,
one of the best known of living mediums, I willingly agreed to
take my share of the cost. We decided to limit our circle to
eight persons upon whose trustworthiness we could rely, viz.:
Thomas Dicksee, the celebrated artist, and his son Frank—
both extremely sceptical on the subject of Spiritualism—the
latter having indeed proved it, to his own satisfaction, to be a
folly and a delusion in a paper recently read by him before a
debating society; Mr. Gooke and Mr. Pearson, also well-known
artists; my cousin Tom Maclean, the sculptor, on whose
fidelity I could depend as fully as on my own; Ellis and his
wife, and myself. The seance was to be given in a room
of Ellis’s "house, 41, Fitzroy-square, and Williams was not
allowed to enter the room until we, the sitters, entered it with
him.
“ The room was long, but so narrow that when seated round
the table in front of the fire-place, the chairs opposite the fire
place were thrust so closely against the table as rather to in¬
convenience those who occupied them. Williams sat with his
back to the fire-place, his chair legs pressed close to the heavy
iron fender. Dicksee, senior, held his right hand, Maclean his
left; and these two faithful guardians, to make ‘ siccar,’
placed a foot upon each of his feet, so that he could not move
an inch without their being conscious of it. The order of the
circle was this—Williams, Dicksee, Pearson, Gooke, Frank
Dicksee, Fraser, Mrs. Ellis, Ellis, Maclean—my position being
almost exactly opposite the medium. Hands were taken all
round—Ellis having bared the room of furniture, except the
chairs and the fender, and having locked the door, the key of
which was in his own pocket—and the gas, a single jet over
the medium’s head, turned out by Ellis.
“ I should mention that certain articles brought by the medium
were placed on the table before we took hands. These were a
musical box, medium-sized, a stringed instrument, which
Williams called the ‘ Oxford chimes,’ a hand bell, and a fan.
” We sat in the dark for some three-quarters of an hour
without any manifestation taking place. Williams suggested
that the spirits loved music. The musical box played * Home,
sweet home ’ over and over again so many times that we began
to tire of it.
“ In a few minutes Mrs. Ellis cried out ‘ The little gas-glass
is in my hand.’ This was a small crystal cup fitting the gas-
jet above Williams’s head, which we had noticed before the
seance began. This cup was carried to most of the members
of the circle in some mysterious manner ; the fan was waved
in our faces and touched our hands and foreheads; the hand¬
bell was lifted and rung at various heights from the table ; the
musical box played on at a tremendous pace, and was wound
up with even more fury than it seemed to be ground by.
Asked to advance our hands upon the table, our fingers were
caressed by warm fingers, which seemed to some of us to be
fine and delicate, as of a woman’s hand, whilst others thought
them broad and coarse, as of a man* Bluish-white lights
Aug. 6, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST. 71
danced about in different parts of the room with erratic bril¬
liancy. One of these lights fell upon the musical box, which
immediately rose visibly from the table to a considerable
height, and came down again playing all the time; another
light accompanied the ‘ Oxford chimes ’ for the whole length
of the room to the window, a great distance from the table,
and after tapping three or four times on the shutters, the
(chimes ’—(a stringed instrument, and needing the help of
fingers to produce any music)—played an exceedingly sweet,
siniple, and pathetic air, and then returned to the table.
“ We heard a great noise at the back of Williams’s chair,
which he explained by saying that the spirits were cleaning
the fireplace, out. There was certainly a scraping of cinders
in the fender, and Mrs. Ellis began to fear that the heavy iron
fender might be moved, and some of her guests injured
thereby. Dicksee, Maclean, and I, however, were anxious that
the spirits should do their utmost that night, so we begged her
to give up her fears about the fender; wo felt sure that nobody
would be hurt, so the spirits were left to work their own sweet
will ; and by-and-by, sure enough, the fender was lifted right
on to the table in the,midst of us. This was done quite noise¬
lessly, the hustling about of the cinders in the fender having
ceased for some minutes. By raps we were instructed that the
power of the spirits was exhausted for the night, so, before
breaking up the circle, Ellis turned tbe gas on, and there we
sat, hand linked in hand, as when the seance began. Wil¬
liams looked fresh and unexcited, still in the careful grasp of
Maclean and Dicksee. The rest of us completed a close, un¬
broken ring about the table, so that the fender must have been
lifted bodily over our heads; it could not have been slipped
between any pair of us. There the huge thing lay, its ends
projecting over the edges of the table, one end resting on the
arm of Mrs. Ellis, the other on Pearson and Cooke’s hands.
We sat down to the capital supper provided for us by Ellis
with a considerable amount of mystification.
“ How was'it done ? To suppose that Tom Maclean allowed
either Williams or Ellis to budge from their seats would be as
ridiculous in my mind as to suppose 1 had done it myself; in
the same way, to suppose that a man of the high social and
artistic position of Thomas Dicksee would wink at cheatery on
the part of Williams or of Pearson is absurd. I confess
that I have no notion how the fender trick was managed ;
and I shall be glad if any of your readers can throw any light
upon the subject.”
MR. PEEBLES AT HOME.
Mb. J. J. Morse, in a recent communication to the Banner
of Light, says : While in Philadelphia a long-cherished
desire obtained its realisation. When our good brother and
able author, lecturer and extensive traveller, J. M. Peebles,
visited London, England, the first time, we met, and a friend¬
ship lasting up to this time resulted. Admired and respected
by all who met him in England, Mr. Peebles has left a name
behind him in my own country that he may well be proud of ;
and he deserves it, too, every bit of it. To return: he extended
me an invitation at the time 1 mention to visit him at his
home in Hammonton, N. J. At that time I had neither
inclination nor intention of visiting America. However, the
old proverb, slightly altered, says, “ Man proposes, but the
angels disposeand here I am. Mr. Peebles called upon
me in Philadelphia, and reminded me of his invitation. I
accepted it at once, and on Wednesday, June 2Srd, at 5 p.m.,1
arrived at Hammonton. Calm and pleasant, it formed a
grateful contrast to the noisy city life we had left behind. A
brief walk of about fifteen minutes, along a good, firm, and
broad road, lined with trees and well-kept farmsteads, brought
us to Brother Peeble’s domicile—a modest frame-house, stand¬
ing upon a lot of some four acres, and approached by a
winding carriage-drive. A fencework of dwarf evergreens
faces the main road, and lends quite a pleasant effect. A
magnificent cherry tree, full of rich fruit, shaded the porch,
and made the piazza a cool retreat. With a smiling face and
a cheerful voice Mrs. Peebles advanced to receive us, and in a
little time England and America were seated at the supper-
table discussing things in general and Friend Peebles’ straw¬
berries in particular.
. The results of many of Mrs. Peebles’ artistic labours adorn
the walls of our pilgrim’s home, in the form of a number of
handsome pictures, showing alike the lady’s taste as an artist,
and her excellence as a medium, while scattered round the
different apartments are innumerable evidences of Eastern
travel. Ascending to an upper chamber, I was ushered into
the sanctum sanctorum of our friend. It is at once a library
and a museum—a library of between one thousand and two
thousand volumes, many of which are old and rare works
gathered in distant countries. In the collection are many
unique maps and manuscripts, and all the different bibles of
the world, beginning with the Yedas of the Hindoos, and so
on down the tide of time to the Sacred Roll of the Shakers
and the Book of Mormon. This literary workshop contains
also relics, antiques, specimens from Chinese pagodas, Budd¬
hist temples, porcelain from the Mosque of Omar, shells
from the Jordan, pebbles from the Dead Sea, head-gearings
and other paraphernalia of the Orientals—every article an
object of interest, and every object eloquent of some mystic
story. This library is a fit retreat for its erudite possessor.
Out in the grounds, in the fruit orchard, are peach, cherry,
apple, pear, and other trees, all giving excellent promise of
an abundant yield, while other articles of food are also
spreading their emerald ensigns to the breeze on all sides.
Mr. Peebles usually spends the summer months at home,
dividing his time in working in his garden, writing in his
library, and occasionally lecturing to the Spiritualists of his
town. The Spiritualists of Hammonton, be it noted, are out
of debt, and own a capital hall. J held a meeting on the
evening of my first visit with most gratifying success. Next
morning, at 8.14, cars started for Philadelphia, and at 9.5 I
again trod the pave of the Quaker city, Mr. Peebles being with
me. We parted, he going to Dubuque. Our regrets at sepa¬
ration were mutual, for I much esteem our good brother, and
I have every reason to believe he does me.—Banner of Light.
THE NATURE OF THE MIND.
The following is from the Newcastle Daily Chronicle :—
“Inexhaustible is the number of books which have been
written on the ‘ Mind,’ and there is every probability that the
problem will never be solved in a manner to satisfy both
Spiritualists and materialists ; indeed, we can scarcely dispute
the dictum of G-. H. Lewes, that 1 to aspire to the knowledge
of mental phenomena, their resemblances and successions, is
to aspire to transcend the limitations of human faculties.’
However this may be, it is certainly wiser and better to
grapple with the subject, for the very endeavour to know
strengthens and widens the intellectual faculties. The
spiritual metaphysicians assume that we possess some kind of
entity, called mind or spirit superadded to the brain, not in¬
herent in it, having no connection with it, and without local
habitation in the body, and this entity they pronounce in¬
visible, unextended, indivisible, immaterial—all negative terms
which express nothing, because they do not correspond to any¬
thing of which we have, or can have, cognisance. All that we
can know of mind is by its manifestations as they are found in
animal organisations; but that thought-power can exist,
separate from cerebral organisation, transcends all human
experience. ‘ Mind,’ as Mr. Jaggs, one of your correspondents,
says, ‘ is purely functional,’ and it is the function of the brain,
as an organ, to think, as much as it is the function of the liver
to secrete bile. Gan man, we may ask, think independently of
brain ? If it is an immaterial something in man which wills
and thinks, how can this immaterial and indivisible essence, or
whatever it is, be disordered by a material cup of wine, by a
few drops of laudanum, or insensibility be produced by con¬
cussion of the brain ?
“ What we call mind is developed along with the growth of
the body, decays as it decays, and is affected by all the
diseases which afflict it. Were the mind an immaterial and
indivisible entity, it could not be affected by material influ¬
ences ; and consisting, moreover, of no parts or elements, it
would be intrinsically the same in all men, and present
precisely the same manifestations in all, in the savage as in
the civilised. We know that mental qualities are transmissible,
that they can be improved by education, strengthened by
exercise even as the body, and reduced to weakness or
imbecility by over-exertion, as in the cases of Hugh Miller and
Southey; but then it is only material things which are
affected in such a manner. We know that insanity is often
superinduced by corporeal disease, but how could this be if the
mind exercised its functions independently of the body, and
did not form an integral part of it ? Insanity is disorganisa¬
tion, but how can an immaterial essence, a unity, become
disorganised ? Wherever there is not a healthy state of the
cerebral organism—the brain—there can be no healthy thought,
no healthy mind; and without a healthful state of the
stomach there can be no healthy digestion, but we never
think of superadding an entity, and calling it an immaterial
digestive principle.
72
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 6, 1875.
“ From the lowest animals up to man we find a gradual
ascension of intelligence in accordance with the higher order
of cerebration ; but we stop at man, leave nature and reason,
and superadd to his brain and nervous system an imma¬
terial essence. Tiedemann has shown clearly enough that
a human brain, ere it receives its final form in the perfect
child, passes through all the lower types or forms of organi¬
sation. The brain of a Newton or Shakespeare was in its first
stage a monad, and successively a vertebrated animal, an
osseous fish, a turtle, a bird, a ruminant, a mammal, and then
an infant man. It is only when accepting this theory of the
mind as a standpoint—thatunderstanding, judgment, volition,
instinct, &c. are cerebral functions, and not personified
beings—that we can read the works of Locke or Priestley,
Reid or Dug aid Stewart, with profit as well as pleasure. The
human mind, speaking collectively, as it exists to-day, is not
the originally created mind. It has required thousands of
years to build up the highest minds of the present day in the
form in which they exist; and had there been no such thing
as intellectual progression, we might now have been in a con¬
dition no whit superior to the lowest African tribes. We may
add from Helvetius: ‘ If nature had put on the ends of our
wrists feet, like those of a horse, instead of hands and flexible
fingers, who can doubt that man, without arts, without
dwellings, without any defence against animals, wholly occu¬
pied with the care of providing for his subsistence, and with
shunning wild beasts, would not still be wandering in forests
like flying herds?’”—Author of Charlie Lufton, Appleton
Wiske.
SPIRITUALISM IN AMERICA.
In the course of a private letter to Mr. W. H. Harrison, Mr.
Epes Sargent, of Boston, U.S., says : —
“ Things have been in a very unpromising state here. The
insanity of Mr. Owen has brought Spiritualism into still worse
repute among the uninformed, who constitute nine-tenths of
the community. The public at large take this ground: ‘ See
what Spiritualism leads to. Here Mr. Owen, an honest man,
had been juggled into a belief which, he afterwards proved,
was unfounded.. The shock has been too much for him. It
has made him insane.’
“ With regard to my Proof Palpable, I hope to revise it so
that the next edition will be entirely freed from all statements
in the least questionable. All those parts relating to the
Holmes’ manifestations will be re-written.
“ Madame Blavatsky is now in Boston. I met her in person
last evening for the first time. She has made quite a stir
among Spiritualists in this country, and seems a person of
remarkable energy and; vivacity.
“ Spiritualism is under a cloud at this moment, but I think
it must soon emerge from it brighter than ever. Our present
great work should be to verify and establish beyond all per-
adventqre these materialisation phenomena, which are still a
matter of dispute even among Spiritualists. Your testimony
and Mr. Crookes’s in regard to the phenomena' through
Florence Cook are the most decisive and important we have
yet had on the subject; but we are having new opportunities
here every day to investigate, and I hope we shall do some¬
thing ere long to place the subject on a scientific basis.”
Good Workers in Spiritualism. —During the after¬
noon of the past three Saturdays Mr. Morell Theobald has
given three garden parties to Spiritualists and nqn-Spirit-
ualists at his residence at Fernside, Hendon, situated in the
midst of some of the most picturesque and beautiful of the
undulating scenery near London. The guests enjoyed them¬
selves at croquet and other open-air amusements. It is to
Mr. Morell Theobald, who is a clever professional accountant,
that the National Association of Spiritualists is indebted for
the faultless way in which its books are kept, and its financial
reports certificated. He or his clerks examine and certify the
books and accounts continuously without making any charge
to the Association, the books of which are thus kept nn the
most faultless manner. Mr. and Mrs. E. Dawson Rogers were
present at two of Mr. Morell Theobald’s garden parties. Mr.
Rogers is one of the most active members of the official
committee of the National Association, and has given more
attention than most members of council to the framing of its
constitution and rules. He does a great deal of work, the
results of which are brought up at the Council meetings, so
that the National Association is also exceptionally indebted
to him for the time and ability which he devotes to its
interests. '
Mrs. C. V. L. Tappan has been staying at Darlington.
During the next month her address will be 13, Lime-street,
Saltburn-by-the-Sea.
There will be a Council meeting of the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists next Tuesday, August 10th. Among
the business will be that relating to the proposed Conference
in October. As the dead season will not be over, and many
Spiritualists out of town, November would be the better
month.
A Pic-Nic of Spiritualists.—A correspondent says:
“ Some friends who frequent Mr. Cogman’s Spiritual meetings
at 15, St. Peter’s-road, Mile-end, have decided to spend a day
in the country, near Highbeach, Epping Forest. Those friends
who would like to be of the party should kindly let Mr.
Cogman know on or before Sunday, August 15th next, as the
day fixed upon is Wednesday, August 18th. Conveyances by
road.”
Rules of Spiritual Societies.—The rules of the
National Association of Spiritualists, the result of such a
large amount of careful work, have just been published, and
copies may be obtained on appliccftion to the secretary at 38,
Great Russell-street. They are very short, occupying only ten
small pages of large type, but are such as to secure perfect
freedom to all the members, and to provide for the conducting
of all business in an orderly manner.. There is a demand for
them for examination from all parts of the world, since so
much intelligent labour has been bestowed upon their com¬
pilation. They will be useful to local societies. One of the
regulations of the Brixton Psychological Society is that if any
events occur to which their own rules do not apply, the rules
of the National Association shall be adopted and used to meet
the temporary requirement.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Inquirer.—A Belgian Correspondent informs us that the word
“ Kyzer ” is Flemish or Dutch, and signifies “ Emperor.”
Brighton spiritual union rooms, 82, st.
James’s-street, Brighton. Open daily. Seances free on Sundays,
Monday and Wednesday evenings. As there is no Subscription for Mem¬
bership, the Secretary claims the privilege of each Member being known to
him personally before nomination. All Spiritualist publicaiions on sale.
JOHN BRAY, Son. See.
PSYCHOPATHIC INSTITUTE
FOR the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR
DISEASES, opposite St. Chrysostom’s Church, 74, Queen’s-road,
Everton, Liverpool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms
per arrangement. J. Coates, Principal.
OOUL READING; or, Psychometrical Delineation
lO OF Character.—J. MURRAY SPEAR announces to his numerous
English Friends that by the aid of Spiri'-Intelligences he delineates cha¬
racter, describes mental and spiritual capacities, and sometimes indicates
their future and best vocations for health, business, and harmony. Persons
desiring information of this sort should send him their autograph, stating
age and sex, and forward by Post-office Order Nine Shillings; or for three
delineatims to one address, a Guinea. Address: 2,210, Mount Vernon-
street, Philadelphia, Pa., U. S.
THE SOUL OF THINGS;
OR, PSYCHOMETRIC RESEARCHES AND DISCOVERIES.
In Three Volumes, Fourth Edition.
By William and Elizabeth M. f. Denton.
“ We have1 here a marvellous book. It is calm, and seems perfectly
sincere, and yet it makes larger drafts upon our credulity than any work
we ever before met with. The old alchemists never conceived of any thing
half so strange. Spiritualism, with all its wonders, is scarcely a vestibule
to what we are introduced to here.
“ Were there any reliance to be placed on these revelations, it would be
impossible to estima'e the value of this newly-discovered power. It would
resolve a thousand doubts and difficulties, make geology as plain as day,
and throw light on all the grave subjects that time has so effectually ob¬
scured.”—New York Christian Ambassador.
“In the varied wonders they describe there is a peculiar and intense
interest. If what is claimed in this book be true, it records the most
remarkable discovery yet made as regards the capacities of the human
mind in its abnormal state.”—Norfolk County Journal.
“ There is much extraordinary matter in these pages. It is a volume em¬
phatically deserving of the reader’s choicest study.”—Boston Traveller.
Though as concise as a text-book, we read The Soul of Things with the
fascination of a work of Action. Indeed, it is truth itself, stranger than
fiction, written in the vivid style which is apart of Mr. Denton’s remark¬
able power.”—American Spiritualist.
Price 8s. per volume.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-st., London W.G>
mHOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR-
JL OUEATING LIBRARY, &c., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston-lane,
London, E., respectfully solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dalston, and Kingsland.—Information
as to Local Association, Seances. &c., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
Aug. 6, 1875. THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOG S', MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AX THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.O.
(Entrance in Wobum-street).
Alili LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author’s views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. lid.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well ^authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition. 5s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes, P.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
6s.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.O.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 6s.
PLANCHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court, New York, U S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. Cd.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fred. A. Binney, A practically useful work for inquirers,
giving general information about English professional and non-professional
mediums, also about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I? Vol. If., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this book, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee, D.O.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens. Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modem Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vols., crown 8vo., 15s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents: The Anti-Supematuralism of the Present Age;
Science and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The Scriptures and Pneumatology; Miracles and Science;
the Spirit and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism ; Thoughts
on Spiritualism ; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles and Pneumatology;
the Spirit and the .Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection: the Church and the
Spirit. l2mo.i 600 pp. Cloth 10s. Od.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamm Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the/ Mastodon ana
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were surrrounded. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine’ portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. The book is illustrated with numerous engravings, drawn by the
sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The suhstance of a review of
this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt as to the
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability of
clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it will be by means of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vols. 24s.: or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. Kin'g. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says ^"Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the, flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not be taken for granted
because uttered by a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of all the
reason and-experience possessed by those who receive their instructions."
6s. fid. ’
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epos Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation' of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light. 7s. fid.
ALLAN KARDEO’S “SPIRITS’ BOOK” (Blackwell.) 7s. 6d.
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits through the
mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is sometimes made by disbelievers
that spirit messages are of a trumpery character, but these beautiful poems
give evidence that all Spirit utterances are not so. The “ The Prophecy of
Vala,” published in this book and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar
Allen Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote din ing the whole of his life
on earth. Best edition. Gilt, 10s. fid.; cheap edition, 7s. Ofi.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through the medium-
ship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work, is a collection of beautifu
poems. 7s. Cd.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S. Olcott.
Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. William Crookes and
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author is a literary gentleman of high stand¬
ing in New York, and the book consists of descriptions of seances at which
materialised spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses. Pictures of the Eddy Brothers, their homestead,
and the phenomena presented at theirseances, are included in the work. 12s. fid.
NATTY, A SPIRIT ; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS LIFE. By
Allan Putnam. 4s.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER WHICH
HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS. By Allan Putnam.
6s.
THE CELESTIAL TELEGRAPH, OR SECRETS OF THE
LIFE TO COME. Proved by many years experiments by means of eight
ecstatic somnambulists. Cahagnet, 10s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST. By Wash¬
ington A. Danskin, 4s. fid.
PSALMS OF LIFE; A collection containing 150 pieces of music
and 650 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams. 5s.
POEMS BY ACHSA -W. SPRAGUE, for many years a public
trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 5s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet,
with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. fid.
THE PRINCIPLES OE NATURE, given inspirationally through
the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s Cd.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL MAN
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle. This book argues
that man is contemporary with the Mastodon, and details the history of his
subsequent development. 7s. fid.
THE_ IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS, OR GENESIS AND
' GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen. 3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the testimony of
the departed about the world beyond the grave. 5s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a vision of
scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, OR MESSAGES FOR THE BEREAVED
FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY. Christian spirit-messages given
through the mediumship of F. J._ T. (Part one), fid.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of, and
advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), fid.
HINTS FOR .THE EViDENOES OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. fid.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. fid.
ARCANA OF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., i2s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles
5s. fid.
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD;
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. fid.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s trans¬
lation.) 7s. fid.
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s. .
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM,
7S. fid.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
book, containing messages given by Spirits through the Writing Mediumship
of a Lady. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
H. Tuke. 25s.
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU, giving
information about Spiritual Phenomena among the Amazulu and other Tribes
of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon Callaway, MD., in three parts. 12s.
OUTLINES OF TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION INTO
THE PHENOMENA OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Thomas P.
APPARITIONS: A NARRATIVE OF FACTS, by the Rev.
Bourchier Wrey Saville, M.A. 4s. Cd.
HESPERIA. Poems, by Cora L. V. Tappan. 6s.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO
MATTER. By O. M. Burnett. M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. By Hugh
Farmer, 1765. 2s. fid.
PSYCHOPATHY; OE, THE TRUE HEALING ART, by
Joseph Ashman. Is. ’
iv
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Aug. 6, 1875,
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Contains Records
of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnambulism, and Clairvoyance, and
; philosophical considerations connected therewith. This work gained the prize
offered for competition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Puh. at 7s. 6d.) 3s. 6d.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith, formerly Editor
of the “ Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s.
■WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS,
The “ Poughkeepsie Seer." s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . . . . 16 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . . . .76
The Teacher. „ II. ,, .... . .76
The Seer. „ HI. ' „ . , . . . .76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ - . . . . . .76
The Thinker. „ V. „ . . , . .76
Magic Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . , . . .76
A Stellar Key tc> the Summer Land . . . . . .40
Arabula, or Divine Guest . . . . . , . .76
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology . . . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from the People, . . , .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . - . , ,40
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . . . . 4 .0
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age. . . . . .40
Events in the Life of a Seer. (Memoranda.) ... . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . . . . .30
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion. . . , . . .40
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers . . . . .80
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . . . .66
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained . . . . .76
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . ' . . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . . . .60
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime . . . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . , . . , .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology , . . . . .-..SO
Morning Lectures . ,. . . . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . - . . . 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recommended by
The Spiritualist Newspaper . . . . . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing interesting particulars
and legends relating to Buddhism . . . . . . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . . . . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . . . 12 6
Catena Of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Gwen . . .76
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yun, Buddhist Pilgrims, from China to India
(400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from the Chinese by Samuel Beal,
B.A., Trim Coll, Cam. . . . . . . . . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus, by the Rev.
Henry Callaway, M.D. In six parts . . . . . . 16 0
The Life and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English, with Pre-
liminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions interpreted by Com¬
parative Mythology, by John Fiske, M.A. . . . . . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind, or A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer . .60
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English from the Chinese
Classics,by James Legge, D.D., LL.D. . . . .' . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Explanation of the
Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism,
Vital Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life, Anaesthesia, and Nervous
Congestion, by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . , .20
The Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, Secretary of the
Legation of the United States of America at Oonstantinople . . 12 0
Son, Remember; an Essay on the Discipline of the Soul beyond the Grave,
by the Rev. John Paul, B.A. . . , . . . .36
Mythology and Popular Traditions of Scandinavia, North Germany, and the
Netherlands, by Benjamin Thorpe. In three vols. . . . . 18 0
The Koran; commonly called the Alcoran of Mahommed. Translated into
English immediately from the original Arabic, by George Sale . . 10 6
The Childhood of the World, by Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S. Special edition
for Schools . . . . . . . • . .10
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales Forster. A
useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. New¬
ton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of the Travels
and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev. J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMSHIP, by Thomas R. Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Personal Expe¬
riences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a Gentleman of Education
and Religious Culture. Is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING POWER, by Adolphe
Didier, 2s,
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Serjeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM NOT
ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of this little pam¬
phlet: “There is in it a good deal of genuine good feeling, sound common
sense, and deep thought.” 6d,
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2d.
CARTE DE VISITS PHOTOGRAPHS OF CELEBRATED
. AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie Doten; 4. Mr.
Luther Colby: 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich; 6. The late Mr. William White; 7. Dr.
Frederick. L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M. Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs.
Conant.
CARTE DE VISITS PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY WARD
BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.„  .
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.—Mr. Edward Hope, 74, Bussell-street, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hltchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Ooat§s, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—MrlBretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.'
1.—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthfu
recreation.
2.—By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3.—By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction,
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1875.
Experiences of hafed, prince of Persia
Communications in Trance through MR. DAVID DUGUID. With
Introduction and Appendix.
The Subscriber, in response to oft-repeated and earnest request, pro¬
poses to publish these Communications, the accumulation of the last five
years, so soon as the Subscription List indicates that they are wanted by
the Spiritual community.
The proposed volume will extend to not less than 550 demy 8vo. pages
(the size of the Spiritual Magazine or Human Nature), and will contain,
besides the Experiences -of Hafed, about 500 Answers to Questions, many
of these on subjects of the greatest interest; Communications from
Hermes, once an Egyptian priest, afterwards a personal follower of Jesus;
an Introduction, in which is given, along with some explanatory informa •
tion, an account of the Mediumship of Mr. David Duguid, the Glasgow
Painting Medium; and an Appendix, containing very many interesting
communications from Ruisdal and Steen, the old Dutch masters—Copies
of Direct Writings in Hebrew, Greek, Latin, and English—and a Brief
Statement of the Extraordinary Phenomena occurring under Mr. Duguid’s
mediumship.
The volume will be illustrated by 24 Lithograph Pictures, being fac¬
similes of Direct Drawings, the work of the Spirit Artists at sittings spe¬
cially appointed for their production. (For specimens of these see Spiritual
Magazine and Human Nature for May.) - Various facsimiles of Direct
Writings will also be given in the body of the work and in the copious
appendix.
The book, which will be got up in the neatest and most substantial style,
will be sent to subscribers free for. 10s. Subscribers for 6 copies will
receive' 7 copies for the price of 6.
It is respectfully requested that, in the meantime, Subscribers’ Names
and Addresses be sent without delay to Mrs. Evjsritf, Lillian-villa, Hen¬
don, N.W; or to Mr. T. Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston.
In the Press and will be shortlypublished in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN, ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OF THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in the
tenth state.
Contents. .
Chap. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3,—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in ftha
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God. * ■ I
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ 6.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
„ 8.—TThe Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages.
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.’
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
„ 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ 15.—The Lost Orb. Parc III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expense to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed— >
MR. T. GASKELL, 69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER; AND
‘ MR. F. PITMAN, PATERNOSTER-ROW, LONDON;
who have kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.C.
