AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTEBED FOB TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 150.—(VoL. VII.—No. 2.) LONDON: JULY 9J 1875. Published Weekly; Price Twopence*
O'ontentgi*
Spirit Teachings. No. XXXVI  13
The True Story of the Beresford Ghost  15
The Materialisation of Spirits:—The Connection between Dark Circle
Manifestations and Materialisation Phenomena—Tests to Prove
Duplication of Form and their Results—The Unfortunate Position
of ihe Mediums—The Clothing of Materialised Spirits    17
The “Reincarnation” Controversy. By Prince Emile de Sayn-Witt-
genstein     18
Spiritualism in St. Petersburg:—The Investigation of Spiritual Pheno¬
mena at St. Petersburg Univeroity     ... 19
Association of Npiritist societies in Belgium  19
Mrs. Tappan’s Lecture Appointments   19
The Persecution of Spiritualists in Paris Fine Materialisation Mani¬
festations through Mr. Firman’s Mediuoiship—Appearance of
Recognisable Spii its—Spirit Ligbts and Luminous Drapery   20
Mr. Morse's Career in America:—A Letter from Mr. Morse—Seances
with Dr. Slade and Mr. Foster—Approaching Visit to England of
Mr. Foster, the Test Medium—Travelling Accommodation in the
United States       ... 22
Ancient Druids and Modern Spiritualists :—A Curious Seance on
Pontypridd Common  ... 23
Correspondence:—Dreams  24
Answers to Correspondents     24
Paragraphs:—Spiritualism at Cape Town, 18; Passed to Spirit Life.
19; Reception at Mrs. Gregory’s, 19; Reception by the Countess of
Caithness, 19; The Spiritualist Newspaper in Paris. 19; Spirit¬
ualism in Austria, 19; Dr. Sexton at the Cavendish Rooms   24
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Thursday evening at 8, p.m., at Me. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Fora, per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks.
Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained
post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager,
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR, HATTER, AND GENERAL OUTEITTER
8, HANOVER PLACE, REGENT’S PARK. -
ESTABLISHED, 1833.
Has a very large stock of New Spring Goods, including hats, shirts, an
  umbrellas.
Will be published in a few days.
THE SPIRIT’S BOOK.
BY ALLAN KARDEC.
Translated into English by Anna Blackwell.
Price 7s. 6d. Postage 3d.
Post Office Orders to be made payable to W. H. Harrison, Spiritualist
Newspaper branch publishing office, 38, GreatRussell-street, London, W.C
Lately Published, Crown 8vo., Price 3s. 6d.,
O ON, REMEMBER; An Essay on the Discipline of the
KJ Soul beyond the Grave. By the Rev. John Paul, Rector of St.
Alban’s, Worcester.
“ Such a work will be warmly welcomed by all Spiritualists, and espe¬
cially by those who seek and And in Spiritualism a firm basis for moral
and religious teaching.”—Spiritualist, March 25th 1875,
Published by H. K. Lewis, 136, Gower-street, London.
Psychopathic and magnetic institute
for the CURE OF NERVOUS AND MUSCULAR DISEASES,
1, Dunkeld-street. opposite Emmanuel Church, West Derby-road, Liver¬
pool. 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. Operators sent to all parts. Terms per arrange¬
ment. J. Coates, Principal. Mesmeric Seances every Tuesday evening at 8.
Admission Is. Course of private instructionHow to Mesmerise; to
obtain Biological Phenomena; procure Sleep; induce Somnambulism, &c.
Fee £1 la.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
The British National Association op Spiritualists is formed to unite
Spiritualbts of every variety of opinion for their mutual aid and benefit; to
aid students and inquirers in their researches, by placing at their disposa1
the means of systematic investigation into the facts and phenomena, called
Spiritual or Psychic; to make known the positive results arrived at by careful
research; and to direct attention to the beneficial influence which those
results are calculated to exercise upon social relationships and individual
conduct. It is intended to include Spiritualists of every class whether
members of Local and Provincial Societies or not, and all inquirers into
psychological and kindred phenomena.
The British National Association of Spiritualists was formed in the year
1873, at a national conference of Spiriiualists held in Liverpool, at which
all ihe great Societies of Spiritualists, and the Spiritualists of the chief
towns in the United Kingdom, were represented. The amount of the
annual subscription to the National Association is optional, with a min¬
imum of five thillings a year. Each member has a single vote at the
general meetings, and is eligible for election to all offices.
Persons wishing to join the Association, apd local Societies wishing
to become allied, are requested to communicate with Miss Kislingbury ,
Resident Secretary, at tbe offices of the Association, 38, Great Russell-
street, Bloomsbury, W.O., of whom copies of the Constitution and Rul e
may be had upon application.
The entrance to the offices is in Woburn-street.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
THE READING ROOM AND LIBRARY,
38, GREAT RUSSELL-SREET, BLOOMSBURY,
\ RE open to the public. Newspapers and periodicals
XjL connected wi’h Spiri-ualism, from all parts of the world, and
various high-class journals, are regularly supplied. The library contains,
ia addition to the best writings on Spiritualism, works on historical, specu¬
lative, and scientific subjects by tbe best authors.
Terms to me onbers: One guinea a year, which also includes membership;
Quarterly tickets, 5s.; Monthly tickets, 2s. 6d. To non-members, annual
tickets, 30s.; Quarterly, 10s.; Monthly, 5s.
A Seance room can be engaged under special arrangements, to be learned
from the Secretary.
Open from 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Close at 6 p.m. on Saturdays.
THE BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS
WILL hold
THEIR NEXT CONVERSAZIONE
On Wednesday, July 21st, at their Rooms, 38, Great Russell-sireet,
Bloomsbury, W.C. Entrance in Woburn-sireet.
These meetings have been organised at the request, and for the benefit
Spiri'ualists who desire opportunities of meeting friencs and members
and of discussing matters of interest connected with the Spiritualistic move¬
ment.
Music and other entertainment will be provided at each meeting.
The loan of spirit-drawings, writings, and other objects of interest is re¬
quested for exhibition
Hours, from 7 to 10.30 p.m.
Admission by Tickets only, to be' obtained in advance of the resident
secretary, Miss Kisllngbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, W.O.
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALI STS.
PRIZE ESSAYS.
The Council of the British National Association of Spiritualists offers
THE GOLD MEDAL OF THE ASSOCIATION,
Or the sum of £20 in money, for the best Essay upon the following subject
The probable effect of Spiritualism upon the Social, Moral, and
Religious Condition of Society. ■
Second Prize, £10.
The competition is open to all British born or naturalised British sub¬
jects, and to all Foreign members of the British National Association of
Spiritualists.
The essays to be forwarded, not later than the 1st October, 1876, to the
Resident Secretary, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O., of
whom further particulars can be had on application.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 9, 1875,
u
BRITISH NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OP SPIRITUALISTS. (Established 1873.)
Vice-Presidents.
Blackburn, Charles, Parkfield, Didsbury, Manchester.
Calder, Alexander, 1, Hereford-square, West Brompton, S.W.
Coleman, Benjamin, 1, Bernard-villas, Upper Norwood.
Everitt, Thomas, Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendon, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitz-Q-erald, Mrs., 19, Cambridge-street, Hyde-park, W.
Gregory, Mrs. Makdougall, 21. Green-street. Grosvenor-square, W.
Gully, J. M„ M.D., Orwell-lodge, Bedford-hill, Balham, S.W.
Hitchman, William, M.R.C.S., 29, Erskine-street, Islington-sq., Liverpool.
Honywood, Mrs., 52, War wick-square, S.W.
Jencken, Henry D., M.R.I., Barrister-at-Law, Goldsmith-buildings, E.C.
Ramsay, Mrs., 46, Bryanston-square, W.
Smith, Martin R, Heathlands, Wimbledon-common, S.W.
Speer. Stanhope Templeman, M.D., Douglas House, 13, Alexandra-road,
Pinohley-road, N.W.
Wason, James, Wason’s-buildings, Liverpool.
Council.
Adshead, W. P., Derby House. Belper.
Armfleld, W. N., Eden-villa, Cairns-road, New Wandsworth, S.W
Ashton, E. P., Hope-villa, 206, Brixton-road, S.W.
Bassett, W. E., 15, Thomham-grove, Stratford, E.
Beattie, John, 2, Richmond-hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Bennett, Edward T., The Holmes, B etch worth, near Reigate.
Binney, F.A., 22, St. Ann’s-square, Manchester.
Brown, James, 163, Hospital-street, Hutcheson-town, Glasgow
Chadwick, Sheldon, 54, Mortimer-road. Downham-road, Kingsland, E.
Chapman, John, 10, Dunkeld-street, Liverpool.
Chinnery, Samuel, 4, Elsham-road, Holland-road, Kensington, W.
Colley, Rev. Thos.. 11, Belle Vue-terrace, Southsea, Portsmouth.
Cook, Keningale, BA., Red-hill, Surrey.
• Cooper, R., Yienna-lodge, Eastbourne.
Crosland, Newton, Lynton-lodge, Vanbrugh-park-road- Blackheath, S.E.
Dawe, N. Fabyan, 30, Campden-hill-gardens, Kensington, W.
Dawson, George H., 1, Earlham-road-terrace, Norwich.
Dodd, J. T., 28, Portland-place, Reading.
Edmands, T. H., 7, Oberstein-road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
Everitt, Mrs. M. A., Lilian-villa, Holder’s-hill, Hendcn, Middlesex, N.W.
Fitton, R., 34, Walnut-street, Cheetham, Manchester.
Fitz-Gerald, Desmond G., M.S. Tel. E, 6, Loughborough-road, North
Brixton, S.W.
Fitz-Gerald, Mrs. D. G., 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton S.W.
Freeman, Joseph, 6, Rye-terrace, Peckham Rye, S.E.
Gale, Richard, 9, Wilberforce-street, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Harper, Robert, Soho-hill, Birmingham.
Hayle, Thos., M.D., The Crescent, Rochdale.
Hinde, Thos., 4, Cobden-street, Eastbourne, Darlington.
Houghton, Miss, 20, Delamere-crescent, Westboume-square, W.
Hudson, Geo., Louis-street, Leeds.
Humphreys, H. T., 3, West-end, Doddington-grove, Kennington-park, S.E.
Hunt, Charles, 47, East-street, Baker-street, W.
Isham, Sir Charles, Bart., Lamport Hall, Northampton.
Ivimey, Joseph, Berkeley Mansion, 64, Seymour-street, W.
JameS, Capt., 1, Jersey-villas, Tottenham.
Joy, Algernon, M.I.C.E., Junior United Service Club, S.W,
King, George, F.S.S., 40, Bark-place, Bayswater, W.
Lament, John, 199, London-road, Liverpool.
Lovell, Alfred E., 3, Park-road, Plaistow, Essex.
Maltby, Mrs., 8, Granville-terrace, Shaftesbury-road, Hammersmith, W.
Mawson, Wm, Bryham, 1, King-square, Goswell-road, E.O,
Meers, W. D., Aylsham, Norfolk
Morse, J. J., Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-road, Bow'; E.
Nosworthy, Mrs.. 17, Richmond-terrace, Breck-road, Liverpool.
Pearce, C. T., M.R.G.S., 19,Nottingham-place, York-gate, Regent’s-pk., N.W.
Pearce, Richard, Percy-cottage, Pellatt-grove, Wood-green, N.
Rogers, E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road’, Church-end, Finchley, N.W.
Rogers, Mrs. E. Dawson, 2, Hendon-road, Church-end, Finchley, N.W.
Sexton, George, M.A., LL.D., &c., 17, Trafalgar-road, Old Kent-road., S.E.
Shepherd, J., 29, Everton-crescent, Liverpool.
Short, Rev. W. F., J. House, Woolwich-common.
Showers, Mrs., 103, Seymour-place, Bryanston-square, W.
Snelling, G. F., Camden-villa, Victoria-road, Upton-lane, Essex.
Strawbridge, Geo. Nelson, Annandale, Central-hill, Upper Norwood,
Strawbridge, Mrs. G. N. Annandale. Central-hill, Upper Norwood.
Swinton, A. C., Hill House, Versailles-road, Norwood, S.E.
Tapp, G. R., 18, Queen Margaret’s-grove, Mildmay-park, N.
Theobald, Morell, 30, Mark-lane, E.C.
Theobald, Mrs. M., Fernside, Hendon, N.W.
Theobald, R. M., M.D., &c., 25, Lee-terrace, Lee, S.E.
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, 31, Queen Anne-street, Cavendish-square, W.
White, J., Shadwell, Leeds.
Wilson, D. H., M.A., LL.M., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
S.W., ana 3, Altenburg-terrace, Clapham Junction, S.W.
Wiseman, Mrs., 1, Orme-square, Bayswater, W.
Withall, Miss H., 1, The Elms, St. John’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Withal], H., L The Elms, St. john’s-road, Brixton, S.W.
Wood, Mrs., Bedford House, Carlyle-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Honorary Treasurer.
Martin B. Smith, Esq.,Heathlands, Wimbledon-oommon, S.W.
Honorary Secretary.
Algernon Joy, Esq., 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Resident Secretary.
Miss Kislingbury, 38, Great Russell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
Honorary or Corresponding Members.
Prince Emile de Sayn Wittgenstein, Lieutenant-General, Aide-de-Camp
General de S.M.I. TEmpereur de Russie, Nieder Walluf on the Rhine,
near Wiesbaden.
Pacha Ahmed Rassim, Khande Rassim Pacha, h Bahclje Capousson, Con¬
stantinople.
The Baron Von Vay, President of the Spiritual Society at Pesth.
The Baroness Adelma Von Vay, Gonobitz, bei Potschach, Styria, via Gratz,
Austria.
General Don Joaquim Bassols y Maranosa, Madrid.'
The Hon. Alexandre Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier
of the Order of St. Stanislas, Nevsky Prospect, 6, St. Petersburg.
The Baron von Dirkinck-Holmfeld, Pinneberg, Holstein.
M. Gustave de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Pans.
Mme. de Veh, 26, Avenue des Champs-Elysees, Paris.
The Hon. Robert Dale Owen, Hotel Branting, New York, U.S.A.
J. M Peebles. Esq., Hammonton, Atlantic Co., New Jersey, U.S.A.
Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan, New Yorli, U.S.A.
Miss Anna Blackwell, 13, Rue Lauriston, Paris.
Baboo Pearychand Mittra, 7, Swallow-lane, Calcutta.
James Mylne, Esql, Beheea, East Indian Railway, Bengal.
Mrs. Emma Hardinge Britten, 155, West Brookline-street Boston, U.S.A.
A. J. Rlko. Esq., Oude Molstraat, the Hague, Holland.
The Rev. J. Tyerman, 45, Drummond-street, Carlton, Melbourne.
O. Constant, Esq., Smyrna, Turkey in Asia.
Dr. Maximilian Perty, Professor of Natural Science, Berne, Switzerland.
Dr. Franz Hoffmann, Professor of Philosophy, Wurzburg University,
Germany.
W. Lindesay Richardson, M.D., care of Mr. W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-
street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. ,
Gregor O. Wittig, Esq., Numberger Strasse 35, Gartenhaus, Leipsic.
W. H. Terry, Esq., 96, Russell-street, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
M. Leymarie, 7, Rue de Lille, Paris.
Epes Sargent, Esq., Box 3,556, Boston, U.S.A.
H. T. Child, Esq., M.D., 634, Race-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
E. Crowell, Esq., M.D., 196, Olinton-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
M. F. Olavairoz, Consul-General de France, Trieste, Austria.
G. L. Ditson, Esq,, M.D., Albany, New York, U.S.A.
J. Murray Spear, Esq., 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A,
Mrs. J. M. Spear, 2210, Mount Vernon-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
J. N. Gledstanes, Esq., 11, Rue d’Anieras, Paris.
Rev. Samuel Watson, Memphis, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Allied Society.
The Liverpool Psychological Society.
R. CHARLES E. "WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb's Con¬
duit-street, on Monday and Thursday evenings; and Saturday evenings,
for Spiritualists only; at 8 o’clock each evening. Address as above.
RS.WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will give Sittings for Development under Spirit
Control in Writing, Drawing, Clairvoyance, or any form of Mediumship.
Disorderly Influences removed. French spoken. At home Mondays,
Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. Private Seances attended.
Address, 41, Bernard-street, Russell-square. W.O.
R. W. GL SCOREY, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—Mesmeric Institution, 85, Goldhawk-road, Shepherds'-bush,
W. Please write.
ISS GODFREY, CURATIVE MESMERIST AND
RUBBER, AND MEDICAL CLAIRVOYANT, 1, Robert street
Hampstead-road, London, N.W. To be seen by appointment only. Terms,
on application by letter.
T Y. MANSFIELD, TEST MEDIUM, answers Sealed
. Letters, at 361, Sixth Av., New York. Terms, Five Dollars and Four
Three-cent Stamps. Register your Letters,
R. J. J. MORSE, INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKER,
is now on a Lecturing tour in the United States. He will return as
soon [as engagements permit. All letters sent to the following address
will be forwarded to him in due course:—Warwick-cottage, Old Ford-
road, Bow, London, E.
SEALED LETTERS ANSWERED by R. W. Flint,
IO 39, West 24th-street, New York. Terms, Two Dollars and Three
Stamps. Money refunded if not answered. Register your letters.
RS. OLIVE, SPIRIT MEDIUM, 49, BELMONT-
STREET, CHALK FARM-ROAD, N.W. Trance communica¬
tions for Tests, Business and Medical advice, Healing by Spirit Mesmerism,
&c. Terms for private seance, one guinea, public seances on Tuesdays,
at 7 p.m., and Fridays, 3 p.m., at above address. Admission 2s. 6d. Pre¬
vious appointments should be made for private seances.
NOTICE.—MONSIEUR ADOLPHE DIDIER, Professor
of Curative Mesmerism (80 Years Established), attends patients
daily; from 2 till 5, at his own residence, 10, Berkeley Gardens, Camden
Hill, Kensington. Somnambulic consultations for diagnosis of diseases,
indication of their causes, and remedies. Persons at a distance can con¬
sult by letter.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Monthly Journal. Edited by J. Tybrman,
Price Threepence. Tobehadof W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street, Melbourne,
nd all Australian Booksellers.
LE MESSAGER, a fortnightly Journal, published on.
the 1st and 15th of every month, at 36, Rue de la Cathddrale, Lifege,
Belgium. Price 2d., or 5 francs yearly.
EVUE SPIRITE, Journal d’etudes psychologiques,
i fonde par Allan Kardec, appears on the 1st of every month. Price,
1 franc. Published by the Societe Anonyme, 7, Rue de Lille. Paris. Post
Office orders payable to M. Leymarie.
PARIS:—Parisian readers of The Spiritualist may obtain
it of Mme. Ve. Denax, Titulaire du Kiosque, 246, Boulevard des
Capucines, Paris.
VOtUJVIE £EVEJ\[. JNfUJVIBEE TWO.
LONDON, FRIDAY, JULY 9th, 187S.
r.e SpiriLalist
Established in 1869. •
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTSThree shillings
and sixpence for the first fifty words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch.
Boduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Correspondence.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per5-
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper^
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Allen, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions:—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The Spiritualist will be posted for one year
to any address within the United Kingdom on receipt of the annual sub¬
scription of 10s. lOd.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply oj '■'•The Spiritualistin
London or in the provinces is the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,'
E.O., should always be informed of such impediments and iiTegulari-
ties, and copies can then be ordered,of him by post, direct.
TO SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher,
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next fifty-two numbers, with postage. To
America, Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one
penny, thus the total cost of fifty-two numbers is 13s., which may be
remitted by Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums
less than £2 between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe
and London,Is one shilling.
“THE SPIRITUALIST” NEWSPAPER:
A Record of the Science and Ethics of Spiritualism.
PUBLISHED WEEKLY, PEICE TWOPENCE.
ESTABLISHED IN 1863.
THE SPIRITUALIST, published weekly, is the oldest
Newspaper connected with the movement in the United Kingdom,
and is the recognised organ of educated Spiritualists in all the. English-
speaking countries throughout the Globe; it also has an influential body of
readers on the Continent of Europe.
The Contributors to its pages comprise most of the leading and more
experienced Spiritualists, including many eminent in the ranks of Litera¬
ture, Art, Science, and the Peerage. Among those who have published
their names in connection with their communications in its columns are
Mr. 0. F. Varley, C.E., F.B.S.,; Mr. William Crookes, F.R.S., Editor of the
Quarterly Journal of Science (who admits the reality of the phenomena, but
has, up to this date, November, 1874, expressed no opinion as to their
cause); Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, the Naturalist; Prince Emile de Sayu Witt¬
genstein (Wiesbaden); The Countess of Caithness; Mr. F. G. Atkinson,
F.G.S.; Lord Lindsay; the Hon. Robert Dale Owen (New York); Mr. Epes
Sargent (Boston, U.S.); Sir Charles Isbam, Bart.; Mrs. Ross-Churchy
(Florence Marryat); Mrs. Makdougall Gregory; the Hon. Alexander
Aksakof, Russian Imperial Councillor, and Chevalier of the Order of St.
Stanislas (St. Petersburgh); the Baroness Adelma Vay (Austria); Mr. H
M. Dunphy, Barrister-at-Law; Mr. Stanhope Templeman Speer, M.D.
(Edin.); Mr. J. 0. Luxmoore; M-r. John E. Purdon, M.B. (India); Mrs.
Honywood; Mr. Benjamin Coleman; Mr. Charles Blackburn; Mr. St.
George W. Stock, B.A. (Oxon); Mr. James Wason : Mr. N. Fabyan Dawe;
Herr Christian Reimers; Mr. Wm. White (author of the Life of Swedenborg);
Mr. J. M. Gully, M.D.; the Rev. C. Maurice Davies, D.D., Author of Unor¬
thodox London\ Mr. S. 0. Hall, F.S.A.; Mr. H. D. Jencken, M.R.I., Barris-
ter-at-La'w; Mr. Algernon Joy; Mr. D. H. Wilson, M.A., LLM.; MJ. C.
Constant (Smyrna); Mrs. F. A. Nosworthy; Mr. William Oxley; Miss
Kislingbury; Miss A. Blackwell (Paris); Mrs. F. Showers; Mr. J. N. T.
Martheze; Mr. J. M. Peebles (United States); Mr. W. Lindesay Richardson,
M.D. (Australia); and many other ladies and gentlemen.
The Best Book for Enquirers. 3rd Edition, with Appendix.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
EXPLAINED. By Fritz. Price 3s.
London.—Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS/
NO. XXXYI.
. \_My faith in the information given, and especially in
the tests furnished, though ivhat was said was always true,
did not grow. I was haunted by a suspicion which, if
vague, was none the less real, that ivhat was pretended
was not literally true; that the information given did not
really crime from those whose names were used; that, in
short, there was a mystery or an allegory in all, which
might be deception, or simply something which I could not
understand. This frame of mind, the very worst in
which to seek communion with the spheres, caused our
circle to be practically broken up. We all saw, I think,
the wisdom of discontinuing our sittings, and Imperatar
strongly urged, and finally enforced, that course upon us.
He left us—so far as our sittings were concerned—with
an injunction to ponder over the past, and with a very
strong, warning as to the risk we should run by attempting
to join other seances, or to ourselves meet after his with¬
drawal. The automatic writing continued somewhat fit¬
fully. I made many inquiries as to what was proposed,
and the answers I received, showed just the same deter¬
mined will working out its own purpose as I always found
in Imperator. The most cogent evidence was given of a
clear and decisive intelligence operating in antagonism to
my own mind. At no period had I more forcible evidence
of external intelligence than now. Elaborate plans were
made and carried out, convincing and logical arguments
used to defend them, and I ivas forced to admit the
coherence of all.
It was at this time that a long account was written out
of the spiritual influence which had been brought to bear
upon my whole life. The narrative startled me very
much, and renewed my conviction of the sincerity and
reality of the intelligence that was dealing with me. I
cannot bring myself to print what is (of so personal a
character. It is important to notice the fact, and it would
elucidate my position very much to print the whole narra¬
tive, but I do not wish, at present at any rate, to risk the
misconception that such a personal narrative might in¬
volve. I prefer to pass to a time when personal proofs
gave place to a renewed course of religious teaching. On
Nov. 2, 1873, a question which I proposed to put was set
aside, and a communication was made as to the progressive
* In The Spiritualist of August 15th, 1873, an account was printed of
some remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John's-wood, through the mediumship-
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of the spirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium free, to a large extent, at all events, from colour from bis own
thoughts; consequently the “ spirit teachings ” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many; each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing peculiar to the communicating intelligence is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same-—Ed.
14
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 9, 1875.
revelation of God in that part of the universal Church of
which we have the record in our Bible. I had been told
before that this was but one of many collateral revela¬
tions.']
We would speak to you of the revelation of God
amongst men in times of old by agencies similar to
those which we use now. Throughout the history of
which you possess the record in the earlier part of your
Bible there stand out noble spirits who, during their
bodily lives, shone as lights of truth and progress, and
who, when released from the flesh, inspired in their
turn those who were to succeed them. Such, in the
early days when God was fabled to deal with man more
personally than now—such was he whom you know as
Melchizedek. He blessed and conveyed to Abram the
seal of Divine favour. He was the chosen vehicle of
spirit power in a day when man had not cut himself off
from belief in spirit intercourse. He was the light
shining in darkness, the prophet of God to one section
of His people.
And it is well that we warn you here, on the threshold
of your enlightenment, that you must learn to dis¬
criminate in the ancient records between that which is
record of fact and that which is only expression of
belief! The writings which give the history of those
early days are full of inconsistent statements. They
were not, as we assert to you, the compilation of their
reputed author, but were compiled from traditional
beliefs in a far later age, at a time when history had
merged into legend, and much of mere opinion and
belief had become stamped with the mark of authenti¬
city. So, though it be most true that fact is embodied
in these records, as indeed in the sacred books of other
faiths, you must beware how you accord implicit belief
to every isolated statement contained in them. Hitherto
you have read these stories from a standpoint of un¬
questioning assent. It is needful now that you study
them in a new light—one more profitable, and not less
interesting.
God did not associate with man after the anthropo¬
morphic fashion described in Genesis; nor did He
personally govern a favoured nation save through His
selected instruments.
His dealings with man have been uniform through
the ages—intimate in proportion as man cultivates
spirituality, remote as his animal nature asserts itself,
and he becomes corporeal and material in his instincts.
So, in those now distant days, it was Melchizedek who
bore to the chosen Abraham the Divine Benediction.
He whom Christian and Mohammedan alike have agreed
to exalt was not the immediate recipient of spirit
guidance as was the Priest-King of Salem. Abram
faded from power when he passed from the body, and
in the centuries since his incarnation he has been but
little concerned in influencing men. It may seem
strange that it should be so ; but it is so with many a
spirit whose name fills a large place in your world’s
history. The work has been done, and the new work
does not bring the spirit in contact with matter. Or,
perchance, the work has been badly done, the chosen
vessel has lost its perfume, and becomes in spirit-land
savourless and useless.
Melchizedek returned again to influence the most
powerful reformer your world then had—the leader of
the Israelites out of Egypt, and the Lawgiver who
framed for them their code and constitution. He was
a most powerfully organised and developed instrument
pf spirit-power. A keen intelligence had been developed
in what was then the best school, the esoteric wisdom
of the Egyptians. A powerful magnetic will fitted him
for the post of ruler ; and a powerful band of spirits
operated in the Jewish nation through him, and through
them on the world. A code of religious observance
was perfected, a system of government elaborated, and
laws and regulations laid down which were adapted for
the specific necessities of a great people in a great crisis
of their history. The Jews were then passing through
a phase not unlike that which has come to other people
in later days—one to which the present age bears
some noteworthy points of resemblance, a period of
development of knowledge, when old things are passing
away, and the creative spirit makes all things new.
Here again beware of false deductions. The laws
then given were not meant for all time, as some of your
teachers falsely pretend. They were the power of God
to that distant age—so much of truth as man could
grasp, inspired in the same way, and in no other, as
have been all the utterances of truth which the good
God permits His messengers to declare to men. They
set forth the needed truth that the One Supreme God
rules over His people and cares for their well-being.
The love due to God and the charity and loving-kind¬
ness due to the brother were embodied for a nation
which had drunk in the baser forms of Egyptian
polytheistic teaching, and had had no part in the inner
mysteries where alone truth dwells.
These commandments which have been perpetuated
till now, embodied for a changeful age a phase of truth.
They contain laws of action which are true in spirit,
but not binding in literal exactness on those who have
outgrown the necessity for them. They were given by
the spirit-guides to Moses on the secluded top of Sinai,
above the turmoil of Israel, and removed from the
lower influences of earth. They knew then what man
has forgotten now—how that perfect isolation is
requisite for perfect communing, and that if you would
have pure and unadulterated spirit teaching it must be
communicated to one who has been removed from the
mixed influences, the cares and anxieties, the jealousies
and disputes which crowd the lower air. So is the
message more pure, and so does the medium hear and
receive with sincerity and truth.
Moses was to select seventy elders—men of spiritual
development, for such alone were then chosen for offices
of power—upon whom his own influence was perpetually
brought to bear, and who were the channels by which
that influence permeated the people. So the code was
elaborated and set in operation, and when the great
Lawgiver passed from his work on earth he became
an exalted spirit whose name is emblazoned for all ages
as a benefactor of men.
He, too, in his turn, influenced men after many
generations as the inspiring guide of Elijah. We
intentionally pass over the other manifestations of
spirit-power which occur in other directions, in order
that we may preserve intact the grand chain which
stretched from Melchizedek to the Christ. Nor do we
name more than it is necessary to indicate in order to
show you the continuity, and to press on you the fact
that these, who had been great workers for God during
their lives on earth, did influence man’s destinies even
after their withdrawal from the body. Many other
chains of influence there were, and many other centres
from which truth, more or less advanced, was diffused,
but you are not concerned with them. That which
culminated in Jesus Christ is that with which you ar
July 9, 1875.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
15
concerned, though we implore you to cast aside that
ignorant and selfish sectarianism which would arrogate
to itself the sole proprietorship of truth.
Elijah, the great master, the grandest spirit who
ever graced the nation of Israel, was in a very high degree
the recipient of spiritual guidance from Him who had
been the Leader of His people. The traditional reve¬
rence which Moses and Elias left on the Jewish people
is shown you in the fable that God buried the body of
Moses, while he caught up Elijah in a chariot and
horses of fire to the skies where the fancied heaven
lay. Such was the reverence felt, that they were fabled
to he singular even in death. We need not tell you
that no material body was ever translated to lead a
corporeal life in the land of spirit. You know that
such is but an allegory to indicate the glorious trans¬
lation of an exalted spirit from a sphere where his work
is done, to one where his extended influence is to begin.
He left to his successor a two-fold portion of his spirit,
not indeed in that Elisha was endued with double virtue,
for that was far from being so, but that the glorious
results of Elijah’s power showed with two-fold force in
the days of his successor, who seconded his efforts and
carried on his work.
He, too, reappeared in after ages, and exercised his
great influence again, and stood, as you know, with his
Guide side by side with the Christ on the Mount of
Transfiguration. And in the vision of John the Divine
they are again depicted as coming to revisit the earth
in still later days.
#* *##***
[I did not at all understand the allusion made to this
return in later days when the communication was written—
Nov. 2, 1873. It has only been during the last week,
in the course of copying out the message, that I have been
led to refer it to “ the two witnesses" mentioned in Reve¬
lation xi. 3, &c. Nor should I have noticed this at all,
but for a Pamphlet on the Apocalypse* which some un¬
known friend sent to me a week ago. The pamphlet deals
with these witnesses and their prophesyings, and came to
me most opportunely, to elucidate what I could not under¬
stand.
I asked some questions at the time, and, among others,
whether there were not some before Melchizedek who were
the recipients of Divine inspiration. It was replied:—]
Assuredly. We commenced with the first link in the
chain which culminated with Jesus. In it we left
many links unnoticed, and we expressly said that out¬
side of it there were many who were recipients of
Divine inspiration. Such was Enoch, a highly-gifted
spirit. Noah, in like manner, but imperfectly. Deborah
was highly favoured, and all they whom history calls
Judgesof Israel were chosen for the special reason that
they were amenable to spirit influence. It were long
to particularise all, and we shall speak hereafter of
other manifestations of spiritual power in the Jewish
records. Eor you will see that we confine ourselves
now, first,’ to the Jewish records, and, next, to one
particular chain in these records. _|_ Impebator.
Foreigners find the public establishment and library
of the British National Association of Spiritualists at 38,
Great Bussell-street, to be a great boon. Visitors from all
parts of the Continent call frequently, and the proficiency of
Miss Kislingbury, the secretary, in foreign languages, is in
almost daily requisition and found to be of great practical use.
* The Death, Resurrection, and Ascension of the Witnesses Prophesying in
S dccloth. By T. W. Greenwell. London: Ridgway. 1875.
THE TRUE STORY OF THE BERESFORD GHOST.
The story of the celebrated Beresford ghost has often
been told, but having been favoured with the following
copy of one of the older manuscript accounts of the
incident, we here publish it in its entirety :—
Lord Tyrone and Lady Beresford were born in Ireland, and
left orphans when infants, under the care of the same persons
by whom they were educated in the principles of Deism. Their
guardians dying when they were but fourteen, they fell into
very different hands. The person who now had the care of them
used every means to eradicate principles so pernicious, and
endeavoured to instil into their minds revealed religion, but
in vain; their arguments were insufficient to eradicate first
impressions totally, but they were staggered respecting their
former opinions. They continued unalterably attached to
each other, although separated, and a sincere fraternal affec¬
tion subsisted between them. After some years had elapsed,
being now both grown up, they entered into a solemn vow,
that whichever of them should die first, if permitted, would
appear to the other to declare which religion was most ap¬
proved of by the Almighty.
Lady Beresford was soon after this addressed by Sir Marcus
Beresford, to whom she was united, but no change in con¬
dition altered their friendship (with Lord Tyrone), and the
families visited each other often, and frequently passed more
than a fortnight together. A fortnight after one of these
visits Sir Marcus remarked when his lady came down stairs to
breakfast that she was unusually pale, and that her counte¬
nance bore evident marks of terror and confusion. He
inquired anxiously respecting her health; she said she was
“ very well.’-’ He repeated his inquiries, and begged to know
if anything had disordered her health.
She replied, “ No, no ; I am very well.”
” Have you twisted your wrist ? Is it sprained ? ”
She replied “ No ; let me conjure you, Sir Marcus, never to
inquire the cause of my wearing this ribbon. You will never
more see me without it. If it concerned you, as my husband,
I would not for a moment conceal it from your knowledge. I
never in my life denied you a request, but for this I must
entreat you to forgive my refusal, and never to urge me further
on the subject.”
“ Very well, since you are so earnest in your request, depend
upon it I never will inquire further.”
The conversation here ended, but breakfast was hardly over
when Lady Beresford eagerly inquired if the postman had
come. She was told be had not. In a few moments more
she rang and repeated the inquiry, and received the same
answer.
“ Do you expect any letters,” said Sir Marcus, “ that you
are so anxious for the post ? ”
“ I do,” she replied; “ I expect to hear that Lord Tyrone
is dead ; he died last Tuesday at four o’clock.”
“ I never in my life believed you superstitious, but you
must have had some idle dream which has thus alarmed you.”
At that instant a servant brought in a letter sealed with
black.
“ It is as I expected,” exclaimed Lady Beresford; “he is
dead.”
Sir Marcus opened the letter ; it was from Lord Tyrone’s
steward, and contained the melancholy intelligence that his
lord had died the Tuesday before at the very hour Lady Beres¬
ford had mentioned. Sir Marcus endeavoured to reconcile his
lady to the loss of her friend. She answered him that she
felt much easier than she had for a long time, and added—" I
can communicate intelligence to you which I know will be
welcome. I can assure you, beyond the possibility of a doubt,
that I shall very shortly present you wu. a son.” Sir Marcus
received this with much pleasure, and •-> i ressed the felicity he
should experience from such an event, as it was what he had
long and ardently wished for. The prediction was in a few
months fulfilled. Lady Beresford had a son; she had been
the mother of two daughters before.
Sir Marcus survived the birth of his son only four years.
After his decease Lady Beresford seldom left home; she
visited no family but one, a clergyman’s who resided in the
same village, with whom she passed a few hours every day;
the rest of her time was devoted to solitude. The clergyman’s
family consisted of himself, wife, and one. son, who at this
time was quite a youth ; to this son, however, after a few years,
she was married, notwithstanding so great a disparity of
years, and the manifest imprudence of so unequal a connec¬
tion. Her friends were alarmed for her happiness, and
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 9, 1875.
18
the event proved their fears were not groundless; for Lady
Beresford was treated by this young husband cruelly, and
with such contempt, that his whole conduct evinced to the
world that he was a most abandoned libertine, utterly desti¬
tute of every principle of virtue and humanity. Lady Beres¬
ford had two daughters by this husband; but such was the
profligacy of his conduct, that she insisted on a separation.
They were separated for a few years, when so great was his
contrition and sorrow for former conduct, that he, by his sup¬
plications and promises, got his friends to prevail on her to
forgive and permit him to reside with her; she at last con¬
sented, and became the mother of a son by him.
The day in which she had lain-in a month being the anni¬
versary of her birthday, she sent for Lady Betty Cobbe, of
whose friendship she had been a long time possessed, and a
few other friends to request them to spend the day with her.
About noon, the clergyman who had baptized her, and with
whom she had kept up an intimacy, came into the room to
inquire after her health. She told him she felt perfectly
well, and requested his company to meet some friends who
were to spend the day with her, it being her birthday, she
having completed her forty-eighth year.
“ No, my lady,” answered he, “ you are mistaken; your
mother and I have had many disputes concerning your age, but I
have at length satisfied myself that I was right. Happening to
go last week into the parish where you were born, I was resolved
to put an end to my doubts by searching the register, and I
found you are only forty-seven years this day.”
” You have signed my death-warrant,” said Lady Beresford.
“ I have not many hours to live; therefore I must request you
to leave me immediately, as I have many things of importance
to settle ere I die.”
When the clergyman left her she sent for Lady Betty
Oobbe, and also requested her to put off her company; she
also desired her son’s company (by Sir Marcus), who was then
twelve years old. On their arrival she ordered her servants to
withdraw, “ having some things to communicate,” she said,
“ before she died ”—a period which was not far distant.
Addressing Lady Betty, she reminded her of the friendship
which had ever existed between Lord Tyrone and herself—
that they were educated in the same principles of Deism—
“ When the friends into whose hands we afterwards fell endea¬
voured to persuade us to embrace the revealed religion, their
arguments,though insufficient to eradicate them,yet were power¬
ful enough to stagger us, and leave us wavering between two
opinions. In this perplexing state of doubt and uncertainty
we made a solemn vow to each other that whichever died first
would appear, if permitted, to the other to declare which reli¬
gion was most acceptable to the Almighty. Accordingly,
while Sir Marcus and myself were asleep, I suddenly awoke,
and discovered Lord Tyrone sitting by my bedside. I screamed
out and endeavoured to awake Sir Marcus.
‘“For Heaven’s sake, Lord Tyrone,’ said I,*‘by what
means or for what purpose come you hither at this time of
night ? ’
“ ‘ Have you forgotten our solemn engagement ? ’ said he,
‘ that whichever died first, if permitted, was to appear to the
other and declare which was the only true religion ? I am
now here to tell you I died last Tuesday, at four o’clock, and
that the revealed religion is the only true one by which a lost
soul can be saved. I am further suffered to tell you that you
are with child of a son, who is decreed to marry my daughter.
Not many years after his birth Sir Marcus will die, and you
will marry again, which second husband will ill-treat you and
make you miserable. You will bring him two daughters and
afterwards a son, in child-bed of whom you will die, in the
forty-seventh year of your age.’
“ ‘ Just Heaven 1 ’ I exclaimed; ‘ and cannot I prevent this? ’
‘ Undoubtedly you may,’ replied he; ‘ you are a free agent, and
may prevent it by resisting every temptation to a second
marriage; but you will fail. You know not yourself. Hitherto
you have had no trials; more I am not permitted to tell you ;
but if, after this warning, you persist in your infidelity, your
lot in another world will be miserable indeed.’
“ ‘ May I not ask,’ said I, ‘ if you are happy ? ’
“ ‘ Had I been otherwise,’ said he, ‘ I should not thus have
been permitted to appear to you.’
•‘ * I may then infer that you are happy ? ’ He smiled.
‘ But how,’ said I, * when the morning comes, shall I be con¬
vinced that your appearing thus to me has been real, and
not the phantom of my own distempered imagination? ’
“ ‘ Will not the news of my death be sufficient to convince
you ? ’
“ ‘ No,’ returned I; * I might have had such a dream that
by accident it came to pass. I wish to have some stronger
proof of its reality.’
“ * You shall,’ said he. Then waving his hand the bed
curtains, which were of crimson velvet, were instantly drawn
through a large iron hook, by which the tester of the bed was
suspended. ‘ In that,’ he said, * you cannot be mistaken ;
no mortal arm could have done this.’
‘“ True,’ said I; ‘ but we are sleeping, and all such have
generally more strength than those who are waking; and
although I might not have been able to have done this when
awake, yet sleeping I might, and shall still have doubt.’
“ He then said, ‘ You have a pocket-book here, in the leaf
of which I will write; you know my hand-writing ? ’
‘‘I replied, ‘ Yes.’ He wrote on one side of the leaf. ‘Still,’
said I, ‘ in the morning I may doubt; though waking I can¬
not mistake your hand, asleep I might.’
“ ‘ You are hard of belief,’ said he; ‘I must not touch you;
it would injure you, as spirits cannot with impunity touch
mortal flesh.’
“ ‘ I do not,’ said I, ‘ regard a slight blemish.’
‘“You are a woman of courage,’ said he ; ’ hold out your
hand.’
“ I did so. He touched my wrist; his hand was as cold as
marble. In an instant the sinews shrunk up ; every one
withered.
“ ‘ Now,’ said he, ‘ while you live, let no mortal eye behold
that wrist; to see it would be sacrilege.’
“ He stopped. I turned to him again; he was gone.
“ During the time I conversed with him my thoughts were
perfectly calm and collected ; but the moment he was gone I
felt a chill, attended with much horror; a cold sweat came
over me, and every joint was unstrung; the bed shook under
me, and I endeavoured to awake Sir Marcus, but all in vain.
Every effort was ineffectual. In this state of agitation and
horror I lay for some time, when a shower of tears came to
my relief. I dropped asleep. In the morning Sir Marcus arose
and dressed himself as usual, without perceiving the state in
which the curtains remained. When I awoke I found he was
up and had gone down. I arose, and, having put on my clothes,
went into the gallery adjoining our apartment, and took from
thence a very long broom, such a one as is used in large-houses
to sweep the cornice. With the help of this I took down, but
not without much difficulty, the curtains. I imagined their
extraordinary appearance would excite wonder among the
servants, and occasion such inquiries as I wished to avoid. I
then went to my desk and locked up the pocket-book, and took
a piece of black ribbon with which I bound up my wrist.
When I went down, my agitation of mind had left an impres¬
sion on my countenance too visible to be unnoticed by Sir
Marcus. He immediately observed my confusion, and in¬
quired the cause. I answered him I was well, but informed
him Lord Tyrone was no more, that he had died the preceding
Tuesday at four o’clock; and at the same time entreated him
to drop all inquiries about the black ribbon on my wrist. He
kindly desisted from further inquiries, nor did he ever
afterwards renew them. You, my son, as was foretold, I after¬
wards brought into the world, and in little more than four years
your ever-lamented father expired in my arms. After this
melancholy event I determined, as the only possible way by
which I might avoid the dreadful remainder of the prediction,
for ever to avoid all society, to give up every pleasure, and
to pass the remainder of my days in solitude. But few can en¬
dure to exist long in a state of perfect sequestration. I
formed an intercourse with one family, and with that one
only; nor did I then foresee the fatal consequence that after¬
wards resulted from it. Little did I imagine that their son,
though a mere youth, would prove the person destined by fate
to be my undoing. In a very few years I ceased to regard him
with indifference ; I endeavoured by every possible means to
conquer my passion for him, and the fatal consequence of
which, if I ever should be weak enough to yield to, would be
misery. I fondly imagined I had conquered, when the event
of one fatal day terminated my boasted fortitude, and plunged
me in a moment down that abyss I had so long determined
to avoid.
“ He had frequently solicited his parents’ leave to go into the
army, which they refused. At length, won by his importunities,
they consented. He came to bid me adieu. The moment he
entered my room he fell on his knees at my feet and told me
he was miserable—that I alone was the cause. At this momept
I gave myself up for lost. I considered my fate as inevitable,
and without further hesitation consented to a union, the im¬
mediate resp.lt of which I knew would be misery, and its end
—death.
July 9, 1875.
THE SPIBITTJALIST.
17
“ The conduct of my husband after a few years passed amply
warranted my demand for a separation, and I hoped by this
means to avoid the remainder of the prediction; but won over by
his continued entreaties for a reconciliation, I was prevailed on
to pardon and once more to reside with him, though not until
after I had, as I thought, passed my forty-seventh year. But
I have this day heard from undoubted authority that I have
hitherto been mistaken respecting my age, and that I am this
day forty-seven. Of the near approach of my death I have no
doubt, but I do not dread its arrival; armed with the sacred
principles of Christianity I meet the King of Terrors without
dismay, and without a tear bid you adieu to depart for the
regions of immortality. When I am dead, as the necessity of
its concealment ceases, I would wish that you, Lady Betty
Cobbe, would unbind my wrist, and let my son with yourself
behold it.”
Here she paused for some time, but resuming the conversa¬
tion she entreated her son so to behave as to merit the honour
lie would in future receive from a union with the daughter of
Lord Tyrone. Lady Beresford then expressed a wish to lie
down that she might compose herself. Lady Betty called her
attendants and quitted her, having first desired them atten¬
tively to watch their lady, and should they observe any change
instantly, to call them. An hour passed; they listened—all
was silent; but in less than half an hour the bell rang violently;
they flew to her apartment, but ere they reached it death’s cold
hand had struck the unerring dart. The servants exclaimed,
“ Oh, she is dead ! My lady is dead! ”
Lady Betty then desired the servants to leave the room for a
few minutes, and she, with Lady Beresford’s son, approached the
bed, and knelt down by the side of it. Lady Betty then lifted
up her hand, unbound the ribbon, and found the wrist exactly
as Lady Beresford had described it, every sinew shrunk up and
withered. Lady Beresford’s son, as was predicted, is now
married to the daughter of Lord Tyrone ; the ribbon and
pocket-book are now in the possession of Lady Betty Cobbe in
Ireland, or Marlborough-buildings, Bath, who, together with
the Tyrone family—by whom it is stated—will be ready to
assert the truth of the narrative.—Transcribed July 21st, 1794,
by the Hon, Mrs. Maitland.
The above narrative, we are informed, is inexact in
the following particulars :—
There are two mistakes in the narrative—(1) Sir Tristram
Beresford was Lady Beresford’s husband, and not Sir Marcus,
who was her son. (2) Lady Betty Cobbe was her grand¬
daughter, and was not born when she died. It was to her
daughter, Lady Riverston, she told the story.
Lady Beresford was daughter of Lord Glenawley ; her son,
Sir Marcus, married the daughter of Lord Tyrone, and was
made Earl of Tyrone, and his son was the first Marquis of
Waterford.
THE MATERIALISATION OF SPIRITS.
THE CONNECTION BETWEEN DABK CIRCI/E MANIFESTATIONS
AND MATERIALISATION PHENOMENA.
Among those spectators to whom materialisation phenomena
are a novelty, and among those who have given but casual
attention to the subject, the desire is sometimes expressed for
more complete information as to the nature of the manifesta¬
tions. In their incipient stage the manifestations have been
common in England for years. Materialised spirit-hands have
been seen over and over again during the last ten years in the
presence of the Davenport brothers and other mediums pos¬
sessing similar powers, whilst the phenomena so common at
dark circles, in which instruments float about the room and
spirit-voices are heard, are all done by the means of the mate¬
rialising power, for materialised spirit-hands carry the instru¬
ments, and as a general rule materialised spirit-heads speak
to the sitters with the direct voice.
As the experience of the spirits increased, they became able
to show their hands more frequently and easily in the light
than they could before, and at last they commenced to show
their faces. Experience on the part of the sitters of the con¬
ditions necessary to evolve good manifestations also con¬
tributed to strengthen the power ; further, when mediums
began to sit specially for materialisation manifestations, this
circumstance, combined with other favouring conditions,
tended to the production of successful results.
When the spirits who long previously had been speaking to
the sitters in dark circles became able to show their material¬
ised faces, the regular sitters discovered the voices belonging
to these faces to be exactly the same which they had heard
for years previously in the dark, but the unexpected circum¬
stance also became known that the said faces were nearly the
doubles in external appearance of the faces of the mediums,
although a different intelligence to that of the medium ap¬
peared to govern the approximately duplicate features. As the
power increased, these spirits began to show themselves at full
length, but very rarely at the same time that the medium was
in full view ; consequently elaborate systems of testing were
introduced, to get some guarantee that in particular cases, at
all events, the medium and the spirit-form were not one and
the same.
TESTS TO PROVE DUPLICATION OF FORM AND THEIR RESULTS.
Throughout the whole history of Spiritual manifestations
the general tendency of any attempt on the part of the sitters
to impose their own conditions on the spirits has been to
stop the manifestations altogether, except with circles strongly
in sympathy with the mediums, and composed of persons
anxious to receive truth for its own sake, rather than to perse¬
cute a medium for the gratification of any suspicious elements
in their own natures. The gradual unveiling of the nature of
Spiritual manifestations has therefore been a work of time
and difficulty.
At the great majority of seances held for these manifesta¬
tions, no absolute evidence of there being an actual materiali¬
sation or the reverse is usually given, but in exceptional cases,
where care has been taken to demonstrate this point, the
reality of materialisation has in some instances been proved.
This has been done by means of the electrical tests applied by
Mr. Yarley and Mr. Crookes to one celebrated medium, also
by their application by Mr. Crookes alone to another ; it has
also been proved several times in seances with Mr. Williams,
where the spirit, John King, has been seen in the open circle
by all the sitters, whilst Mr. Williams was held by both hands
all through the manifestations ; further, in a variety of
instances with different mediums, the observers have been
asked into the cabinet, and on certain of those occasions have
seen the medium and the spirit at the same time.
There is also evidence that in some cases there has been no
materialisation, but the presentation of the medium dressed
up. Careful experiments have been made with Mrs. Compton
in America, who at various seances has been bound and sealed
in the most complicated manner, her dress in some oases
having been nailed to the floor in many places, and the heads
of the nails sealed; yet, under these conditions, a form re¬
sembling herself, clothed from head to foot in white drapery,
has come out of the cabinet, and while thus out of the cabinet
the form has requested the spectators to enter and search it.
On doing so they found nothing there, yet at the close of the
seance the medium was found bound and secured as at first,
with no white drapery about her. This power of spirits of
freeing mediums from bonds in the twinkling of an eye was
known long before materialisation manifestations came up, and
most curious cases are on record of the tying and sealing of the
Davenport brothers, and of the spirits being able to free them
in the twinkling of an eye, sometimes without untying a knot
or breaking a seal.
THE'UNFORTUNATE POSITION OF THE MEDIUMS..
The spirits thus have the power of materialising if they
choose, or of showing the medium if they choose, and in both
cases the medium is a helpless instrument in the hands of an
inexorable power. If that power ever exhibits a medium as a
spirit, at the same time deliberately stating to the spectators
that the body of the medium is insensible inside the cabinet,
the said power must be evil and deceiving in its nature, and
those who have come under such control are greatly to be
pitied. If these manifestations are introduced to the outside
public, the medium is in a pitiable condition either way. Sup¬
posing the materialisation to be real, the approximate similarity
of features is suspicious to sceptics; whereas, supposing the
alleged materialisation to be spurious, the unfortunate medium
may be condemned as an impostor, although completely un¬
conscious and in a dead trance. Mrs. Cook, after buying a
great deal of hard experience, at last guarded as much as pos¬
sible against these evils towards the close of Miss Cook’s semi¬
public career as a medium, by taking care that in her ordinary
state her daughter had little or no white clothing about her,
whilst the spirits invariably appeared in white drapery. Miss
Cook also, during scores of her latter seances, refused to sit for
materialisations unless most surely and carefully bound with
tapes inside the cabinet by the spectators, the knots being
sealed by them with wax impressed by signet rings. Thus
18
THE SPIRITUALIST,
July 9, 1875,
evidence was given that whatever took place during the
seance the medium had nothing to do with it. Still,
it must be remembered that no bonds will necessarily
hold a powerful medium. At the house of Mr. Crookes, Miss
Cook was once fastened by the neck and by the waist to the
library ladder with tape, and the knots sealed, yet she was
freed by the spirits in a very few seconds, and the knots and
seals were found hanging to the ladder. The loop round her
neck was just large enough to lightly clasp the neck, and
could by no possibility have passed over her head, yet there
was the loop and seal intact, and with Miss Cook’s neck out¬
side at the close of the sitting. Mr. Charles Blackburn, of
Manchester, was present and witnessed this, and took the tape
and seals home with him.
THE CLOTHING OF MATERIALISED SPIRITS.
No one has ascertained yet where the white drapery which
clothes these spirits comes from. In some cases, where pieces
have been cut off and given away by the spirits, it appears to
have been of Indian or Chinese manufacture—at all events, it
could not be easily matched in England. In other cases the
fabrics have been as common as any which Manchester pro¬
duces. In some instances pieces have been cut out with
scissors before the eyes of the spectators, leaving large holes
in the dress, and these holes have instantly closed up without
any seam or mark of any kind being visible, even when closely
examined immediately afterwards. Notwithstanding this, the
pieces cut as already stated have been found to be permanent,
and very common stuff.
For many years it has been known that spirits can carry
solid objects from place to place, and bring them into closed
rooms, Baron Kirkup, of Florence, having had letters carried
long distances by them ; so it may be that in some cases white
dresses are brought into the cabinet by spirits in the middle
of the seance, and taken away again before it closes. If this
be so, it may be that the repairing of holes in the fabric under
the eyes of the spectators is simply a portion of the material¬
ising process made visible, and that in time entire dresses may
be formed in this way under the gaze of the observers. In
Colonel Olcott’s new book about the Eddy brothers, shawls
and large pieces of drapery are described as being materialised
to any extent before the eyes of the spectators.
A fair conclusion from all that has been stated is, that at
the majority of seances the spectators have no guarantee
whether they see the medium or a materialised spirit, conse¬
quently it would be better for everybody concerned were no
seances of this kind given without evidence of the presence of
abnormal powers being given also. This can be easily done
at ordinary seances by the mediums absolutely refusing to sit,
either in the presence of friends or foes, without being secured
to their seats with tapes by clear-headed, reliable persons, who
also seal the knots, so that, whatever takes place, evidence
will be given to the spectators of the presence of a power not
possessed by mortals. In the case of an established medium
who has been tested for a long time, and who is known to be
so completely under the control of spirits as to be the agent
for the production of a large number of physical manifesta¬
tions, the inference among those who understand mediumship
will be that the spirits are responsible for anything that may
take place at any time in the way of spurious as well as of
real manifestations—a truth which the public will deny point
blank. Even inexperienced Spiritualists are slow to realise this
fact, otnerwiee the Utopian idea of guaranteeing mediums
would not occasionally he brought forward. All admit that a
medium is governed by different spirits at different times, so
what folly it would be to guarantee a medium under the
control of the wicked spirit B, because the day before the
medium had passed through severe tests under the control of
the good spirit A. Any medium who can be guaranteed cannot
in all probability be very sensitive to spirit influence, or be
the agent for presenting manifestations which will carry con¬
viction to inquirers.
If any individuals not thoroughly well known to he powerful
physical mediums, and to be under the control of spirits,
should present themselves to Spiritualists as materialisation
mediums, they should be tested most severely, and not recog¬
nised until they have passed through a long seiies of close
observations.
Experience proves that full-form materialisation manifesta¬
tions are of little use for proselytizing purposes: they make
fewer converts in a year than Mrs. Mary Marshall’s spirits
used to make in a week, by means of good ordinary manifesta¬
tions ; she could get strong raps, also the frequent floating of
furniture without being touched, and all this in broad day¬
light. New-comers are naturally not prepared to readily
admit the well-known fact of the materialisation of spirit-
hands ; how, then, can they be expected to admit off-hand the
reality of spirit-forms which strongly resemble the medium,
and may not he presented under test conditions ?
THE “ REINCARNATION ” CONTROVERSY.
BY PRINCE EMILE BE SAYN-WITTGENSTEIN.
With reference to the reincarnation theory, about
which The Spiritualist of June 25th (page 312) says a
few words, I may mention to you an incident which
happened to mo some weeks ago, during a short visit
which Miss Lottie Fowler had the kindness to pay me
at Ems.
One morning she—or rather “ Annie,” her con¬
trolling spirit—saw a crowd of spirits clustering round
me and greeting me as a former acquaintance. This is
the way in which she described the scene, with occa¬
sional pauses in her utterances :—
“ They talk English, but are not Englishmen. They
seem to be soldiers. They wear cocked hats and
curiously shaped uniforms. They have something like
tails hanging down their hacks. They seem glad to
see you, and want you to recognise them. They are
Americans! They fought against theEnglish along, long
time ago; they say that you were one of their chiefs,
and that they were killed on the same day as you. I
see a beautiful spirit, a lady, watching you fondly. She
is fair, with long ringlets and soft blue eyes. She
smiles, and says that you know her well! Her name
is Mary; she was your mate at that time, and has con¬
stantly protected you since through many dangers.”
Now, some eight or nine years ago, while examining
Spiritualism with a friend of mine—a very powerful
French medium, Mme. Courtin—I was told by my
protecting spirits that, during my last incarnation, I
had lived in America, fought for the independence of
that country, and finally been killed in battle.
At the same time, and often since, Mme. Courtin
saw a lovely apparition, answering exactly to the
above-mentioned description, and named Mary, who
was stated to have been my wife at that time. She
was said to have died of sorrow after I was slain, and
to have ever since my present incarnation watched over
and protected me, especially during my numerous
campaigns against the Circassians,Turks, and lastly the
Poles.
The fact is that I have never been wounded, although
I have had several really miraculous escapes ; and it is
a fact that, especially during the campaign of Kars, the
respect shown to my person by the enemy’s projectiles
was so evident, that the Cossacks under my command
believed me to have a charmed life. It is scarcely
necessary to add that Miss Fowler did not know any¬
thing at all of these circumstances.
What do your anti-reincarnationists say to this ?
Emile, Prince oe Wittgenstein.
Niedur Walluf, on the Rhine, July 1st.
Spiritualism at Cape Town.—The first attempt to form
a Society of Spiritualists at Cape Town, South Africa, has
failed. Mr. W. L. Sammons, of 18, Stein-street, Cape Town,
sent us by last mail the following extract from tke Cape
Argus:—“ For sale, Standard works on Mesmerism, Phre¬
nology, Spiritualism, Clairvoyance, and other subjects from
Id. to 5s. As these works were originally intended for the.
Psychological Society, they will be disposed of at very low
rates. Those who take an interest in the above subjects
should apply at once at the Athemeum, 4, New-street.”
THE SPIRITUALIST.
19
July 9, 1875,
SPIRITUALISM IN ST. PETERSBURG.
THE INVESTIGATION OF SPIRITUAL PHENOMENA AT ST. PETERSBURG
UNIVERSITY.
A letter to us from M. Alexandre Aksakof, dated
June 20th, Villa Repiofka, Government of Penza,
Russia, says that any accepted mediums who wish to go
to St. Petersburg, that their powers may be examined
by the committee appointed by the University, will
have to make their arrangements with him. The com¬
mittee will have nothing to pay. M. Aksakof is ready
to pay the expense of the voyage to St. Petersburg and
back, and to remunerate the mediums for every seance
which they may give to the scientific committee, but as
to their hotel expenses he expects that they will be able
to meet these themselves by means of the professional
seances they will give in St. Petersburg. He also asks
us to make a special announcement in The Spiritualist,
publicly inviting the Davenport brothers, who are now
travelling on the Continent, to visit St. Petersburg and
to give their services to the committee; ho adds that it
would be a fine opportunity for them to establish a
reputation in Europe. He further says that Mr.
Breditfe has left St. Petersburg, and that it is probable
that he would come to England if invitations were sent
to him.
Mrs. and Miss Showers have left London for the sea¬
side.
The Journal Common Sense, San Francisco, has been
suspended for want of funds.
Passed to Spirit Life.—Arthur, eldest son of J.
Enmore Jones, Esq., at Enmore-park, S.E., on Thursday, the
1st of July, 1875.
The Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists will meet next Tuesday, the 13bh inst., at 88,
Great ftussell-street, W.C.
Dr. Mack, the healing medium, who recently came to
London in company with Mr. and Mrs. Hardy, gives mes¬
meric treatment to patients at 26, Southampton-row,
Holborn, W.C.
Mr. Morse writes that the heat in Philadelphia is now
very trying to English constitutions ; the thermometer stands
at 96° in the shade. He has visited Mr. Peebles at Hammon-
ton, New Jersey ; both of them attended a public meeting of
Spiritualists, and delivered addresses on the occasion.
The London season is nearly over, and many persons
have begun to leave town; some of our best mediums are
also away. During the past week little or nothing of public
interest has taken place in London in connection with Spirit¬
ualism.
Mr. J. M. Peebles is about to present to the Dalston
Association of Inquirers into Spiritualism, per Mr. Morse,
copies of the following works written by himself:—The Seers
of the Ages; Jesus: Myth, Man, or God?; Witch Poison;
The Gaderene; Travels Bound the World; The Spiritual
Pilgrim.
Reception at Mrs. Gregory’s.—Last Saturday night,
at a reception of Spiritualistic and other friends at Mrs.
Makdougall Gregory’s, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-square,
London, the following guests were present:—Monsignor Capel,
the Countess of Caithness, Count de Medina Pomar, the Lady
Vere Cameron of Lochiel, the Hon. Edward Douglas, Mrs. !
Ives Wright, Miss Ives Wright, Mr. Puller, the Rev. W.
Stainton-Moses, M.A., the Rev. Maurice Davies, D.D., the
Rev. Mr. Fisher, Mrs. Ramsay, Miss Ramsay, Conte Giovachino
Bastog, Conte G. Angelo Bastog, Count Rossi, Miss Katherine
Poyntz, Madame de Sievers, Signor Polini, General Brewster,
Major Mackenzie, Mrs. Mackenzie, Mr. Howard, Mr. Stack,
Miss Inglis, Dr. Farquharson, Miss Hope, Captain James, Mr.
Bennet, Mr. Peele, Sir Tollemache Sinclair, Mr. Alcock Stad-
wall, Mr. Wood, Mr. Napier, Mr. George Cranford of Auch-
names, Mrs. Schletter, the Misses Schletter, the Lady Helena
Newenham, Colonel W. Nassau Lees, Principal of the Moham¬
medan College at Calcutta, and Mr. W. H. Harrison.
ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITIST SOCIETIES IN
BELGIUM.
The Groupes Spirites (Spirit Circles) in the city of Brussels,
feeling the want of a common centre, and believing in the
principle of united action, formed themselves, in the month
of October last, into a little confederation, numbering about
eighty members. This confederation is called L'Union de
Spiritisme et MagnStisme. It holds two weekly meetings, one
for official business and one for public discussions, which are
much frequented by the liberal protestant clergy.
The President of L’Union, in a letter to the Secretary of
the British National Association of Spiritualists, says: “ At
our last meeting I spoke of the splendid progress made by
your national association, and recommended that your ex¬
ample should be followed here. By the help of God, with
courage and perseverance, I do not doubt that our union may
also have a rapid development. Next September we hope to
lay the foundation of a Belgian National Federation of all
the Spiritist societies in this country. An appeal has been
made for this purpose, and I shall be much obliged if you will
kindly send us a copy of your constitution and rules for our
study and benefit.”
The Union has addressed the following letter to the editors
of the chief Belgian newspapers in answer to the attacks on
Spiritualism which have lately appeared:—
“TO THE EDITOR.
“ Sir,—The Saciety V Union having undertaken as its mission the study
of the phenomena called Spiritual, we make an earnest appeal to all
learned men of science and journalists, whatever be their opinions, to help
us in consciontiously elucidating this much controverted question.
“ Those who are desirous of taking part in a study of such great scien¬
tific interest are requested to send in their names to Mr. Charles Fritz,
secretary to the society, 121, Rue de Louvaine.
“ We wish for the highest light, both tor us and against us.
“ Pray oblige us by inserting this in your valuable journal, and accept
the assurance of our highest estetm.
(Signed) “ Ch. Fritz, Secretary.
“ (By order of the Committee.)H
MRS. TAPPAN’S LECTURE APPOINTMENTS.
Edinburgh :—Next week.
Newcastle August 29tb and three following week daya.
Belper, Debbyshire :—September 7th and 9th.
Liverpool and Southport :—The week following.
Mrs. Tappan will make no engagements for August.
Address : Care of the British National Association of Soirit-
ualists, 38, Great Rnssell-street, Bloomsbury, London, W.O.
There is a little delay in the publication of the trans¬
lation of Allan Kardeo’s Spirits' Book, iu consequence of the
engraver not having finished the frontispiece likeness of Allan
Kardec so soon as expected.
Reception by the Countess of Caithness.—The
Earl and Countess of Caithness entertained a party at dinner
on Monday, at their residence in Portland-place; later in the
evening her ladyship held a reception, which was numerously
attended.
A general meeting of the members and friends of the
Brixton Psychological Society will be held next Wednesday
evening at eight o'clock, at the residence of Mr. Desmond
Fitz-Gerald, 6, Loughborough-road North, Brixton. The
meeting has been postponed from last Wednesday.
The Spiritualist Newspaper in Paris.—Henceforth
the Spiritualist will be regularly on sale in Paris, on the
Boulevard des Capucines, Kiosque 246, kept by Mme. Ye.
Denax. This will be convenient not only for English Spirit¬
ualists in Paris, but for our readers in other parts of Europe
when they require additional copies of any number quickly.
Spiritualism in Austria.—The Baroness von Yay
writes that Miss Lottie Fowler has been giving physical mani¬
festations in her house under test conditions, very much of
the nature of those produced through the mediumship of Mrs.
Annie Eva Fay. For instance, when Miss Fowler’s mouth
was bandaged a glass of water was drunk, and the empty glass
placed on the table at a yard’s distance from the medium. A
zither, a small stringed musical instrument, was played, bells
were rung, and a musical box was wound up, while MissFowler
was bound hands and feet in her chair. Pieces of linen were
also sewed together under the same conditions. The Baron
and Baroness von Yay intend forming a circle of reliable wit¬
nesses for the investigation of these strange things.
20
THE SPIKITUALIST.
July 9, 1875,
THE PEESECUTION OE SPIRITUALISTS IN PARIS.
FINE MATERIALISATION MANIFESTATIONS THROUGH MR. FIRMAN’S
MEDIUM8HIP — APPEARANCE OF RECOGNISABLE SPIRITS —
SPIRIT LIGHTS AND LUMINOUS DRAPERY.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—I begin this letter on July 2nd, and I feel greatly
obliged for the kind, but much exaggerated, expressions which
I read in your last number in regard to my humble exertions
here in behalf of persecuted innocence, truth, and of our
great and good cause. I am not aware of any particular
merit attaching to the simple performance of duty imposed by
opportunity, which conscience would have made it a shame to
shirk or shrink from. Labour and sacrifice are small matters
on such occasions. While grateful for the friendly sympathy
of all good men and women, comrades in the same cause of a
truth which is indeed divine, and in which we all see the best
hope for the future of humanity, allow me to express the hope
that it may take the practical form of some help to Firman’s
family (his good little wife and her mother) during his incar¬
ceration, to say nothing of [some improvement of [his own
prison fare, which must come from without. He is a good
and honest little fellow, a true medium, and destined to deve-
lope into a very valuable one (he is as yet only twenty-three
years pf age), if we may believe the assurance of Mr. Guppy,
who, out of the flesh, seems to be pretty much the same man
that he was in it. Any contribution towards these objects will
be well applied through Mr. Gledstanes, 11, Rue d’Asnidres,
whom you all know, and who much better deserves your votes
of thanks than does your humble correspondent, who only
became such for the occasion, through the accident of Mr.
Gledstanes’ absence.
The delay given by the Procureur de la Republique to Firman,
before having to go to enjoy the kind hospitality of the State
for six months, is fifteen days, counting from the expiration of
the ten days which the law allowed for the right of appeal.
The date of his sentence was the 17th ult., so that his time
is fast running out. He is every day holding private seances
with the Comte de Bullet, but his power is irregular and
unreliable since his six weeks of prison life, followed by all the
moral bouleversement incident to his position. He sometimes
looks as white as a sheet. These mediums are kittle cattle.
Sometimes he gets little or no manifestations ; at other times
good ones. Comte de Bullet has recently seen three different
spirits of his acquaintance, Firman being visible at the same
time. Having no other quarters now but a bed-ropm, he lies
asleep on his bed, which the closed curtains convert into a
sort of cabinet. The materialised forms have all been female
ones. They have to crouch or bend for room. On one occasion
the spirit sat on the edge of the bed, Firman entranced being
visible behind her. In compliance with the Comte’s request,
she showed him her foot, and again threw forward her drapery
in a great mass or heap on the floor, somewhat as “ Honto ”
seems to create it at pleasure by an act of will in Colonel
Olcott’s Wonder Book. On two occasions they spoke. One of
these spirits told the Comte to prepare a magnesium light, and
that she would try to get photographed. In the event of
her being able to get power enough he intends to employ an
ordinary photographer, and hopes to have the picture exhibit
both the spirit and the sleeping medium—which may perhaps
enlighten a little eyen the darkness of the judicial mind. He
obtained yesterday (Friday, the 2nd July) an experience which
is novel, so far as I know, in the records of Spiritism. He sat
in a dark seance at a table with Firman and his wife. A spirit
form, well known to the Comte, materialised itself, its face and
hands being illuminated by a light held in her hand. By an
act of will a luminosity would flash from her full 'length form
(that is, her full length becoming self-luminous) and again
cease. At his request she would pass, almost as quick
as thought, from one corner of the room to another. She
said—speaking distinctly—that she would show him some¬
thing new. She then crouched down and crept under the
table, the solid top of which became as transparent as glass,
she being visible under and through it; and she presently rose
up through it to her full tall height, as though it were nothing.
Indeed, there is plenty of evidence going to show that to
spirits our “ solid matter ” is, at times at least, about as air is
to us; which raises puzzling questions in the mind as to what
“ solid matter ” really is. Gracious Heavens ! where shall we
stop ? He observed that whenever the drapery of the spirit
accidentally touched the medium it caused him to start up
violently, as though from a strong electric shock, though no
such effect was produced upon himself. She produced loud
raps by striking with her light—and was seen doing so—on
the bottom of the table. She also struck his head gently with
it. He says it was not a lamp, that is to say, a light contained
in a vehicle, but seemed to be a luminous body held by her
hand, which would at times largely expand.
I write this from the Comte’s narrative to me of this after¬
noon, July 2nd, intending to submit it to him before sending
it to you. He is h calm and cool observer, of unquestionable
sincerity and truthfulness, and he pursues his study of this
marvellous subject solely as a matter of scientific interest.
The particular object he is now pursuing is to be able to ex¬
hibit a good seance of materialisation to Carraby and Lachaud,
and through them afterwards to others. The spirits tell him
that they will let him know when they will have strength
enough for that. He has not yet been able to venture even on
me as a spectator, though very desirous of having other wit¬
nesses besides himself. It is extremely provoking that on
some days he can get nothing through Firman—an intermit-
tence of his vital or nervous or electric condition, whatever it
may be, which we can only conjecture about but cannot control.
July 3rd.—I have read the above to the Comte de Bullet, who
fully confirms its accuracy. He again had a good] seance yes¬
terday evening, there being more than one spirit materialised—
one of them extremely beautiful—and obtained permission to
have my presence to-morrow. I shall therefore be able to give
you the result in the present letter. I cannot but think it
must be of interest to your readers to be informed of the ma¬
terialisations Firman is getting at this time; and yet at the
trial the entire go-by was given to the whole subject. If we
can get them witnessed by Carraby and Lachaud, and after¬
wards perhaps by one of the magistrates, it may help towards
a reduction at least of Firman’s sentence, and, what is more
important, have a useful bearing on Leymarie’s case on the
appeal, as showing that Spiritism is not of the dreamy nature
usually supposed.
July 4th.—Well, I have assisted to-day at the seance pro¬
mised for me as aforesaid. The Comte de Bullet and I met sharply
by appointment at 12 at Firman’s, where we find him and his
wife in their small fourth-story bedroom. They proceed to
arrange the bed as a cabinet. There are thick heavy curtains
to the bed, but they are lined with white. That white is sup¬
pressed by means of black stuff pinned up all round inside.
The very coverlet of the bed, being white, is darkened by a
railway rug being spread over it. The light of the single
window is effectually extinguished; there is perfect provision
for absolute darkness. I examine the room and the bed closely,
turning down the sheets, the pillow, and the bolster; there is
no space for more than a mouse under the bed, which is pressed
close against the wall. Firman’s own tight-fitting dress, but¬
toned up to his neck, makes it certain that he could not have
anything thicker than a letter concealed on his person. I
lock the door—there is but one—and put the key in my pocket.
The only human beings in that small room are Firman, his
wife, the Comte de Bullet, and myself. We first hold a dark
seance, all being seated round the table, holding hands.
These may certainly be called test conditions, without the
superfluous nuisance of tying. After a little while come faint
taps under the table. “ Alphabet.” We are told, “ You must
keep the chain.” Then, ” Sing.” Mrs. Firman sings in a low,
gentle voice. After a short time' there suddenly appears a
phosphorescent light, a little above the level of our heads,*and in
our midst. Says Bullet, “ Ah, that is you, my dear. I feel
your dear little hand touching mine ; pray touch my friend.”
I feel a very soft caressing touch on my hand. Presently
I say, “ There is something touching my hand, that feels
like feathers.” ” Oh,” says Bullet, “ that is her soft dress;
I have felt it over my face. Won’t you touch my friend’s face
with your dress?” In a moment I feel my face swept with
what seems to be the softest imaginable texture of some finest
of drapery. Presently my hand is taken hold of (or rather my
thumb, the rest of it being covered by the adjacent hands)
and cordially shaken. After a while this takes place a second
time more emphatically than the first, that is, with stronger
pressure and more cordial shake. Low exclamations proceed
from Mrs. Firman and the Comte of thanks for caresses
bestowed on them. Firman is occasionally giving a deep-
drawn sigh. “ Firman, are you awake ?” I say. No answer.
The light, which is vertical in form, with irregular emanatiens
to one side, floats about the room. But it does not make
any face visible to me; nothing more than a vague white¬
ness below it. “ Oh, pray do show yourself better,” says the
Comte : “let us see you fully.” But we do not. The light
is again in the midst of us. u Ah,” says the Comte, “ see,
it is descending. She means to go through the table.”
And so it did. The light sank gradually down, till we saw
July 9, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST. 21
it pass through the top of the table, finally disappearing.
Immediately came loud raps under the table, several times
repeated. Presently we see the light gradually rising again
up through the table, and reaching its former level, above
our heads; and again the caressing hands were felt on ours,
and the soft fleecy drapery. This was again repeated; but
the phenomenon of the top of the table becoming transparent
(as above related) did not occur. After a while, occupied with
observing the light floating about, came a number of raps.
“ Do you want the alphabet ?” “ Yes.” And “ cabinet ” was
spelled out. We then relit the lamp, and there was the end of
the dark seance. Firman seemed to rouse himself out of a
sleep. “ Were you asleep ?” “ I was half asleep.”
Then followed the light seance. A petroleum Tamp was
lighted, veiled somewhat by a shade, and placed on the floor
behind the screen of a chair. It left considerable light in the
small light-papered room. Firman then proceeded to lie down
on the bed, the curtains being drawn close, so as to make it
an almost black-dark cabinet, inside, with plenty of light out¬
side, to make everything well visible, even to the forms in en¬
gravings on the walls. There was a lozenge-shaped opening
or window in the breadth of black muslin which hung over
the division of the thick curtains of the bed parted in the
middle. I was directly in front of it, at about four or five feet
of distance.
We sit for perhaps ten minutes. Mrs. Firman sings in a
low pleasant voice. We hear nothing but an occasional deep,
gasping sort of sigh, at long intervals, from Firman inside.
After a while the curtain directly in front of me stirs. Fingers
behind are evidently gathering it into folds and drawing it
aside. Presently sufficient opening is thus made to show a
mass of gauze-like white drapery filling the opened space,
above which is dimly visible a face, with long dark hair hang¬
ing down on both sides, surmounted with what seemed a
coronet of gold shaped in a few stars. The figure presently
bends forward, and shows clearly a lovely girl face, looking at
us fixedly, with an earnest expression And there was Fir¬
man’s prostrate, sleeping form, plainly visible. The girl
seemed to be sitting upon him as he lay. Various excla¬
mations arose from us all as we looked,upon what was there
before us. From Bullet they were those of very great affec¬
tion ; in Spanish. He evidently knew her well. I afterwards
learned that she was a young sister of the countess, his wife.
But I need not dwell on details. It is enough to say that she
was requested to come forward more into the light, and she
protruded her head well forward in front of the curtains—a
most lovely girl face indeed 1 I asked Bullet what was her
name. “ It’s Mathilde,” he said. She several times receded
out of our distinct view, and would again come forward
as before, bringing her head well out in front. I asked him
if he could not kiss her. He would not venture, but he blew
her kisses, with his fingers to his lips, to which she responded
in the same way. We could see her fingers applied to her
mouth, her lips move, and could hear a gentle sound of the
lips (a familiar pretty one), and of the blowing sound of the
kiss propelled on the air, just as from our own side, for the
same thing occurred to me; and, as before said, I was not
more than four or five feet from her. She several times
drew the curtain to, and would reopen it. Several times
she appeared at the lozenge-shaped window in the curtain
and the same thing would occur. The length of her
neck and incipient bust would there be better exhibited. Of
course when the curtain was closed we could not see Firman;
but whenever it was opened again, there he was still lying as
before—and no mistake. It was curious that his hand, with
its conspicuous white shirt-cuff, was employed by the spirit-
control to hold up the curtain in front of the girl-spirit. She
was asked, on my prompting, to show us her foot, and a very
pretty little foot was advanced from the midst of the drapery
and shaken before our eyes. She was also asked to thrust
forward her drapery, and it was done with a considerable
bulging forward, though not to the extent to which it had been
done on a former occasion, when the.Gomte stated that it came
forward in a heap down to and upon the floor. She did not
speak. She did not do what Comte de Bullet told me she had
on former occasions done—come forth into the room, and sit
upon a chair. But I saw quite enough—as the French say,
vu, de mes yeux vu—to have no doubt that there she was,
beautiful and manifest, and that she was not the sleeping
Firman, who was plainly visible all the time, and upon whom
she seemed to be sitting. Mrs. Firman was on my right, and
perfectly prisoned by my hand.
An interval passed, of perhaps five minutes; in silence on
our part, except for Mrs. Firman’s low singing. At last the
curtain began to stir again—was drawn aside—and another
girl form and face appeared, as before—smaller, but very
like, yet different, as might be the case between sisters. The
Comte told me they were sisters, and that this one was his
little “ Carmita.” She bent her head in assent. I will not
lengthen this letter by giving further particulars. It is
enough to say that they were pretty much the same, only
” Carmita ” was more childish and playful. She would at
times open the curtain gradually, and then close it quickly,
like a child playing at bo-peep, and enjoying a little fun.
” Mathilde ” was throughout serious and earnest in her
expression and action.
The curtains being again finally closed, we could hear
a faint sound of speaking behind them. The Comte being
closer than I was could catch them better by bending his ear to
the curtain, but I could catch occasional words, though not
over keen of hearing. They were in Spanish. These young
girls were Cuban, and Spanish was of course their vernacular.
They gave very loving expressions to the Comte. He asked if
they did not also love his friend, meaning me. “ Yes, yes ”
was the answer with which I was favoured. (I have always
found that spirits seem to declare that they love all of us.) At
last it ended with faint sounds of Adios, adios, que Dios te
bendiga {Adieu, adieu, God bless you).
We were about to break up, when presently we heard the
familiar voice of “the little Indian” pipe up inside, “How
do you do, Mossieu ? How do you do, Sully-Sully ? ” (So he
always calls me, as he calls the Comte, “ my Mossieu.”) He
said he had been away, but wanted to let us know he was here.
He had been to “ Lunnon.’’ “ Yes; you have been with Mrs.
Fay, haven’t you?” “Yes; but I am here now.” “Well,
can’t you do something to help your medium ? ” “ Will do all
I can, but you know I am only a poor ignorant little boy.”
Now, Mr. Guppy had once said, ‘ through another medium in
private life,’ “ What can you expect from such a poor ignorant
little boy?” and we had got into the way of speaking rather
contemptuously of him as an ignorant little boy of not much
account. He was asked if he could not show himself. “ No,
I tan’t now.” The Comte said he wanted very much to show
something to M. Carraby.” “ We tan’t yet, but we’ll try.”
“ Can you to-morrow, or next day, or on Wednesday ?” We’ll
try.” He was asked whether I should come again in the even¬
ing, as the Comte meant to do. “ No, my Mossieu alone.”
Then “ Good-nights,” and all was over.
This little Kibosh, or “ Frank,” is talkative, though he is no
doubt an ignorant little boy, of small power to do anything,
and doing that little probably only through help. But I have
heard him talk, with his little queer childish voice, in French,
Spanish, and German, as well as in English. He once inter¬
rupted other singing by asking for a popular Spanish song, of
which he at once recited a verse, and struck up the tune Me
gustan todas, &c. I happened to be familiar with it, and there
were two other Spanish-speaking persons in the audience.
He followed it with a verse of another Spanish song, which I
did not know, but which they did. While he was talking this
time, we heard him suddenly say, in an altered voice, as
though an aside, ip answer to a remonstrance, “ Wait a
minute; I only want to say a little more!” When he at last
said “ Good-night,” the Comte told him, “ Well, wake up your
medium.” “Yes,” he answered; and we presently heard
sounds from Firman, who sat up and drew aside the curtains.
These details may interest some of your readers. In the words
of Monk Lewis, “ I do not say that these things are possible ;
I only say they are true.” And you and your readers may
make what you please of them. I can only say that I was not
dreaming, nor was the Count, nor am I now, but that I was
and am very wide awake, and that I am at least a very accu¬
rate repeater of facts. And though Goethe “ hated facts ” I
happen to like them. All our Spiritualism rests upon them,
and none are too small to be without their value for record.
July 5th.—Comte de Bullet, to whom I have again submitted
what is above written, fully confirms its correctness, and
authorises his name to be associated with it, only saying that
I might have added other details. He says that “ Carmita ”
was a child of about twelve years ; “ Mathilde,” a young lady
full grown, and rather tall. On this occasion she did not show
more than four feet of height. We have various other instances
of this variation in stature. On one occasion she has laid a
little child’s hand in the palm of his, and he has asked her to
show it of full size, when it immediately lengthened and
broadened out to the full size at her real age when she passed
away out of this life.
Leymarie’s pamphlet is delayed by the illness of his steno¬
grapher. It will contain in the appendix two attestations by
23
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jul* 9, 1875.
employes of Buguet that •when Baguet came out of his week’s
imprisonment he tutored his employes to what they were to
say to compromise Leymarie, as two of them tried, rather
feebly, to do. They also say that when Leymarie or Gledstanes
was expected at Buguet’s, some one was posted at the top of
the stairs to give warning of their coming, so that everything
suspicious should be huddled out of sight. I am curious
to see how the red-robed judges will deal with such testimony.
I understand that Buguet expresses confidence in his acquittal
on appeal. He has put up a sign at his door of “Photo-
graphics anti-Spirites—Illusions,” illustrated by specimens,
in which he himself appears in the twofold character of man
and ghost. Price twenty-five francs for a pose, forty francs a
dozen. He will probably make money for a while.
There is no saying when the appeal will come on. There are
this time seven judges in red instead of three in black, each of
whom should examine the dossier, after which they confer toge¬
ther and fix a day for the trial. It will doubtless be an early one,
to avoid running into the long vacation. The appeal will cost
Leymarie about 3000 francs. I shall not probably trouble you
with any further letters unless something should arise of
special interest to our English friends and brothers in the
faith of this our new philosophy and new Evangel.
' Paris. J. L. O’Sullivan.
MR. MORSE’S CAREER IN AMERICA.
A LETTER FROM MR. MORSE—SEANCES WITH DR. SLADE AND
MR. FOSTER—APPROACHING VISIT TO ENGLAND OF MR. FOSTER,
THE TEST MEDIUM—TRAVELLING ACCOMMODATION IN THE
UNITED STATES.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist.”
Sir,—The golden glory and the deep unclouded blue of an
American summer sun and sky pour their radiance in at my
open chamber window this fair morning. The busy hum of
the “ Quaker City” rises upon the breeze, and adds a deeper
music to the rusjbling of adjacent foliage. The time and the
day are alike inspiriting, so I will sit me down, sir, and send
you another letter for your readers, from their absent friend
and fellow-labourer. Will it prove acceptable ? I trust so.
First, sir, let me thank you for your courtesy in inserting
my last letter, despatched from Bangor, Me., and also for the
generous supply of copies of the issue containing same, which
duly reached me. The Banner of Light, Boston, did me the
honour of reprinting the above noted communication in its
columns almost entire, crediting it to your journal. Indeed,
the kindness of the Banner of Light to your correspondent is
not the least among the many very pleasant features attending
his visit to this country.
I concluded my engagement in Bangor, and left my warm¬
hearted friends there with no little regret. It was tempered
though with the pleasant hope of spending an equally agree¬
able time upon my return to them during September next—
my final engagement in the United States.
My next engagement was in Lynn, Mass. Boot and shoe
manufacturing is the staple industry of this city; indeed, it
is the seat of that business for that section of the country.
It has a population of some 30,000 ; stands close to the sea¬
shore ; is pleasantly surrounded upon its inland side; and its
streets, avenues, and walks are well laid out. It is eleven
miles from Boston. The Spiritualists are fairly numerous,
but there, as at other places, it is a little difficult to get them
out to lectures. I was the guest of Mr. Asa Bushby; I found
a most entertaining host, and an amiable friend. Mr. Bushby
served three years in the Northern army during the late war.
His reminiscences of that period are intensely interesting,
though anything but in favour of military glory.
My next “ location ” was New Haven, Connecticut, known
to many as tbe “ wooden nutmeg State.” The city of New
Haven is one of the prettiest little places I was ever in. It is
quite an important port for the coasting trade, doing a general
commercial business. Population nearly 60,000. It is called
the “city of elms,” from the fact that the streets are lined
with those stately trees on either side. A large and handsome
square occupies the centre of the city ; its bright green turf
and intersecting avenues of stately elms make a picture that,
to appreciate fully, needs personal observation. New Haven
is 170 miles from Boston, on tbe main line between there
and New York. Fare from Boston, 4 dols. 50 cents,
currency (about 16s, 2d. of our money); Pullman drawing¬
room car, 1 dol. 25 cents, extra (equal to 4s. 5d. our coin).
Our first-class carriages are comfortable, especially those on
the London and North-Western and Great Western main
lines, but after a Pullman they are anything but desirable.
In summer, hot, close, and dusty; in winter, stuffy,draughty,
and badly warmed; always cramping and confining ; seldom,
if ever, too well lighted; and for long rides cramping the
limbs and vexing the souls of the unfortunate traveller. How
different is a “ Pullman 1 ” For all the world more like an
elegant boudoir than a railway car. Polished walnut-wood
panelling, adorned with appropriate gildings ; plate-glass
mirrors take the places of the walls and papers of a drawing¬
room ; Brussels carpet on the floor; crimson velvet uphol¬
stered arm-chairs—one to each passenger—with cushions for
the feet; iced water to drink; a lavatory supplied with every
requisite; an attendant to wait upon you; a conductor to
take care of you; and a special compartment for ladies only:
all these things combined tend to reduce the inevitable dis¬
comfort of travelling to the lowest possible minimum. Plenty
of room to walk about in the car, and if a longer stroll is
desired, you can walk through the entire length of the train.
Is it expensive ? No; it averages from half a cent, to a cent,
per mile, which is a farthing to a halfpenny, over the regular
fare.
To return, I found an energetic and live society operating
in New Haven, though it, too, like all other things here just
now, feels commercially the effect of the hard times. Excel¬
lent audiences assembled on the five Sundays of my month’s
engagement, and at the close of the final meeting the presi¬
dent spoke in the highest terms of the labours of my spirit-
friends, and of the great appreciation thereof by the audience
and the board of managers. I was the guest of Mr. E. R.
Whiting, and I am under many obligations to him and his
estimable lady for a very pleasant home during my stay. The
above gentleman and Mr. Frank Hermance have hitherto borne
much—nearly all—of the financial burden of this society, a
fact which redounds greatly to their credit, considering there
are many Spiritualists in the City far better able to sustain it
than these good workers.
While in this city, I paid a couple of visits to New York—
the first time, to accompany Mr. Hermance to the rooms of
Dr. Slade, the celebrated slate-writing medium. Our object
was to have a sitting with him. We found him disengaged,
and after a little time spent in social chat we repaired to the
seance-room ; time, eleven a.m. Persons present—Dr. Slade,
Mr. Hermance, and myself. Events—After seating our¬
selves at the table, in the centre of the room, Mr.
Hermance and myself placed our feet upon the feet of
Dr. Slade; a chip of slate pencil was then bitten off
a stick of that article, and placed upon the slate, which
we had previously assured ourselves was perfectly clean.
With his right hand he held the slate under the table, his left
being in full sight upon the top. Result—A brief salutation,
written upon the slate, from Dr. Slade's departed wife. At the
same time hands—those of “ Owasso,” an Indian chief—tapped
our knees. The next event was of this character: An
ordinary accordion was produced and examined, tbe key¬
board sliding in grooves, like the lid of a box; Dr. Slade with
one hand put this under the table, and directly exclaimed
that it was being violently pulled; presently the key-board, by
an invisible agency, wak pulled out, and hurled across the
room. After it was replaced several airs were played, and
“ Home, sweet home ” was rendered exquisitely as a finale.
The slate was again used, and this time quite a noticeable
feature was introduced. Upon passing the slate under the
table it was taken from Dr. Slade’s hand and held up above
the edge of the table at the far end from where he was sitting ;
our feet were still upon his, and at that time, his right hand
being free, he brought it up to our view ; his two hands
were thus in sight. After that, the slate was held up on the
head of Mr*. Hermance, and while in that position the scrap of
pencil upon it wrote as follows : “ God bless all noble souls
who work for this glorious Gospel.” This concluded the
sitting. I failed to find either confederate or mechanism, and
if not spirits, what is it ? Let the wise make answer. As the
“ power | responded to our desires intelligence must have been
behind it. In the light of the facts I can more readily admit
that the said facts were produced by the Indian “ Owasso ”
and Dr. Slade’s late wife, than that they were either the result
of trick and confederacy or some occult physical force.
While in New York I visited the Union-square Theatre to
witness the play of the Two Orphans. An elegant little house,
an excellent play, admirably acted and superbly mounted,
amply repaid me for my visit. At all places of amusement
here programmes are distributed gratis.
Returning .to New Haven, I obtained, through the kindness
of Mr. Hermanoe, who is a railway official, a ride upon the
July 9, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
23
engine of the train, a long-treasured ambition being thus
realised. The novelty of the experience, and the enchanting
prospect, combined with the exhilaration induced by dashing
on at thirty miles an hour, have fixed that ride upon my mind
as one of my most pleasant travelling experiences.
My second trip to New York was taken on board the steamer
Elm City, through the kindness of its steward, Mr. A. Coit.
Some five hours are occupied in making the passage, and as
the day was gloriously fine the sail down Long Island Sound
was simply delightful. Sumptuously furnished, these steamers
are quite a pleasant method of reaching New York, and they
are extensively patronised. Of the palatial Boston and New
York Sound steamers I shall have something to say in my
next.
Leaving New Haven I ran qp to Boston. While there it
was my good fortune, through the kindness of Mr. Colby,
editor of the Banner of Light, to form one of a party for a
seance with Mr. 0. H. Foster, the renowned medium. I here
incorporate, from the report of the seance, those portions con¬
cerning myself which appeared in the Banner of Light for
June 12, 1875 :—
On the morning of Friday, June 4th, Mr. Epes Sargent, Mr. J. J. Morse,
the iinglisa trance speaker, Mr. Isaac B. Rich, our partner, and ourself,
waited upon Mr. Foster at his rooms in the Parker House, Boston. The
sitting was evidently intended by those unseen intelligences who enter so
largely—though not so universally recogniie,! in this capacity by, the world
in general—into the arrangement of life’s details, to widen the scope of
knowledge on the part of Mr. Morse concerning the capabilities of the
denizens of the next sphere of being when the proper conditions are given
them. Indeed, such was the information presented through Mr. Foster
when the party took seats around the table. Mr. Morse was highly pleased
with the success of the seance which followed, especially as during its con¬
tinuance a wish which he long had entertained was accomplished, viz., the
giving of words to him by his own particular spi'it guides (outside of his
own organism, and through the instrumentality of Mr. Foster), an experi¬
ence which he had not met with before since his arrival in America.
The pellets so often described being prepared in the usual fashion, and
to a considerable number, and mingled beyond recognition, Mr. Foster
drew forth one upon which it was subsequently found was written the name
of Mr. Morse s Chinese control, but at the time no person who saw it on the
table, closely rolled up, could distinguish it from the rest; and as an ad¬
ditional test of his powers, before unfolding the paper slip, said he would
write the name contained therein upon it. He then caught up the pencil,
and clearly traced out the name, “Tien-Sien-Tie;” the pellet being then
unrolled,; proved his double test to be correct. The medium was also im¬
pressed to state to Mr. Morse that his spirit guides, who were then present,
were happy to meet him under these peculiar circumstances.
When this message had been concluded, Mr. Foster suddenly spoke to
Mr. Morse, saying, “Your mother is here,’' and proceeded to deliver a
message of a personal character in her behalf to her son, giving the name
“ Mary Morse” at the end, which Mr. Morse said was correct. Mr. Morse
was also privileged to converse with several of his spirit friends through
the instrumentality of the raps; the matters sta’ed, however, being of a
personal character, we refrain from reproducing them.
The medium then remarked that “Lizzie Q-oodchild,” who said she had
recently passed to spirit-life, announced her presence, as having come in
company with the mother of Mr. Morse. Mr. Morse inquired of what
disease she died. The names of a certain number of the varied>sicknesses
to which humanity is heir having been written upon slips of paper by Mr.
Morse, among them the true one, Mr. Foster at once selected the correct
slip, and said heart-disease was the principal cause of her demise, although
she was subject to pains in her left side. Mr. Morse said he had heard by
letter from home of the decease of the lady named since he came to
America. .. . The medium turned to Mr. Morse, and said, “ William Lewis
comes to you. Did you know in earth-life any person bearing that name ?”
Mr. Morse replied in the affirmative, and seemed about to add more to his
statement to that effect, when Mr Foster said, “Stop; I will tell you
myself: that person was your wife’s father, so he tells me. Is that true ?”
Mr. Morse acknowledged that it was.
From the nature of the private information communicated,
also from the character of the manifestations, and the utter
inability of Mr. Foster, or any one else, to distinguish the
pellets from each other, Hook upon that seance as giving the
most conclusive evidence of spirit identity that I have ever
witnessed. And when the warm words of cheer and encourage¬
ment from my beloved guide fell upon my ears, I felt indeed
that with such a friendship I might brave the world. Words
failed me, but from my heart’s deeps rose a silent aspiration
of thankfulness for my mediumship. Your readers will rejoice
to hear that ere many months this estimable man and
wonderful medium will be with his English brethren, remain¬
ing some time.
I am, at the time of writing this, again in Philadelphia,
boarding with a pleasant and agreeable family, presided over
by Miss E. L. Stackhouse, North Eleventh-street No. 119. If
any of our English friends wend their way to this city, I
advise them to make straight for the above address. Miss
Stackhouse and her mother, a good and venerable soul, are
Quakers. Their neatness, trimness, and the apple-pie order
that prevails, cause one to wish that all mankind were Quakers,
or that they practised the Quaker virtues of cleanliness, sobriety,
truthfulness, and honesty.
Ere I close, let me take this opportunity of saying it is my
intention to sail for home from this country on Saturday,
October the 9th of this year, arriving in Liverpool about the
20th of the same month, where I hope to meet those who are
loved and dear—my wife and child. I shall remain in Liver¬
pool some few days, reaching London by the 26tb, when I
need not add I shall be delighted to meet my old friends once
again.
I am heartily pleased to find that the late bazaar of the
National Association proved so great a success. May the
Society and its associates prosper ever ! J. J. Mokse.
Philadelphia, June 24th, 1875.
ANCIENT DRUIDS AND MODERN SPIRITUALISTS.
A CURIOUS SEANCE ON PONTYPRIDD COMMON.
The Western Daily Mail, Cardiff, of June 28th narrates howf
on Sunday, June 20th, hundreds of Welshmen assembled on
Pontypridd Common at a gorsedd, the modern survival of an
ancient ceremony imagined to have been practised by the
Druids. The Mail says:—
The following extraordinary epistle was received on Thurs¬
day by a gentleman at Pontypridd, from another residing in
Cardiff, who is a firm believer in Spiritualism:—“It is with
profound and unfeigned interest I write to you. I intended
speaking to you at the gorsedd (throne), but my attention was
called in another direction when the meeting broke up. We
were a party of eight Spiritualists from Cardiff, and the same
number from Merthyr at the gorsedd on Sunday. Our visit on
that day was in conformity with the wishes and instructions of
departed Druids of exalted intelligence, who claim us as
members of the same faith as yourself; and we are informed
that it was the custom of the Druids to hold their seances
within the circle of the meini gwnyion (white stones).
Our medium possesses the faculty of seeing spirits in her
normal state, as we have had ample proof on many occasions
under test conditions. As a preliminary episode, I must in¬
form you that at all the regular periods for holding Druidical
meetings at the rocking-stone, whether attended by bards and
Druids in the flesh or not, those in the spirit are punctual on
all occasions. We were so far favoured that spiritual cele¬
brities were’present. We were promised that an effort would
be made to open the medium’s eyes to see all the real person¬
ages in attendance. As I have hinted, this was not accom¬
plished ; but the Spiritualistic reporter for that day has since
furnished us in writing with the names of some of the prin¬
cipal spirits in attendance—the Chief Stanislaus; Dr. Max;
lola Morgahwg ; Pekin, a Chinese philosopher; Dr. David;
and a reporter, Gwilym Morganwg (the last-named was Arch-
Druid before Taliesin ab lolo, who was Myfyr’s immediate
predecessor). There were many females of high standing
present—one Mrs. Sata, an Egyptian of high birth. She
lived when the Pyramids were built. She is the highest
in the scale of progression who attend our circle. Her
philosophic teaching would astonish you. The next I shall
mention is Neroli, an Italian spirit who suffered martyrdom,
also a philosophic teacher. Little do you think, and less can
you appreciate, the grandeur and importance attending the
gorsedd, and that these bright spirits actually assisted at the
ceremony of ordination. Even their dresses are minutely
described. I stated to you at the commencement of this
letter that the Druids held their seances at the gorsedd, and,
to bring this fact home to you, I must give you an account of
a part of our proceedings on that day. Probably you are
awkre that our party remained on the ground after the crowd
went away ; it was a part of our programme to hold a seance,
not in the dark, but “ in the face of the sun and in the eye of
light,” within the circle of the council (cylch y cynghor). A
favourable spot was required, and our party divided in various
directions in quest of a dry spot. At last a place was fixed
upon simultaneously. It was near a north boundary-wall, on
a large flat stone on which were spread our viands, and the
alfresco luncheon was very acceptable. When all were satis¬
fied the table was cleared, and the seance proposed. There
were several mediums present, but the control fixed on B.
She was not long idle, and began writing at a rapid rate. This
is what came from the spirit world:—
“ We are pleased tb greet our friends here, especially as on
this spot passed away the present control, Nest, the daughter
of Owen, an attendant of the temple. She was murdered
here by the Roman soldiery for the sake of her costly
jewels, and also because they feared her power of foresight,
she having revealed much of their past lives and foretold
their detection, she being a seeress of the temple honoured in
24
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 9, 1875.
her humility—a pure spirit—reincarnated from a priestess of
a long past age.’’
The above was written in less time than it has occupied me
to do so, in the presence of sixteen sane and respectable people.
The mesmeric influence of the ancient Bards and Druids still
there remains, nor will it ever be erased, and its geniality
cannot fail to produce the most happy spiritual results.
I was much pleased with her interesting song and the spirit
with which it was rendered—the other persons] sang admir¬
ably—and the sympathy aroused by the beautiful dirge, “ Morfa
Rhuddlan ” (Rhuddlan Moor, where a great battle was fought
between Wales and England, and the old dirge relating to
which is one of the most touching of the melodies of Wales).
That dirge calls forth many a slumbering sigh—yes, but ’tis
only for a moment when we hear the notes of the “ Men of
Harlech,” and the words—
. Oymru fu, a chymry fyddant,
Pob rhyw drallodhwy ai dryJliant,
Mynwu wleddoedd mynwn Iwyddiant,.
Gogomant yn ei gwyn!
and echo re-echoes, “ Caradog is not dead.”
(KorresponTience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
DREAMS.
Slh,—During a seance I had with a friend recently (on May
Kfeth) we asked some questions about the “ dreams of levita¬
tion of the body.” The following reply was given, and may
be interesting to those of your readers who seem to be anxious
to receive any information that can be obtained upon the
subject.
“When you, in your dreams, feel that you are being raised
np or flying, it is the actual experience of your spirit. It is
the positive proof of the separate entity of your spirit, for
during the sleep of the body the spirit does ofttimes rise, and
the impression you recieve of flying is the result of actual
levitation of the spirit.
“In all cases the spirit leaves the body during sleep or
trance ; but it is only in rare cases that the spirit can succeed
in raising the body with it.
“As your spirit is your life; when your body is lying dormant
in sleep your spirit can soar away, and does do so, so that even
when you are not conscious of it, your spirit may be out of
your body. The reunion is so rapid, that the instant of return
cannot be discerned; but when there is a shock (such as you
are conscious of, on apparently touching the ground after
flying) that is the instant of the return of the spirit.
“Dream life is so very real. It is ofttimes the truest,
deepest life. But the full experience of the good can only be
known in the spirit home.”
On another occasion, five years ago, a friend asked: “ In
dreams, does the spirit leave the body, or is the influence sent
out so as to bring us into rapport with the spirits dreamed of ?”
“ The waves of influence given in of dream life flow in upon
the sleeper from the spirit-land. This brings a perfect rapport,
and then the spirit of the sleeper is conveyed to the spirit-
home, and is in actual reality out of the body, but joined to it
by the magnetic cord of life, which if snapped asunder would
leave the body dead or cast aside.
“ When persons in the body dream of each other, they are
brought en rapport by the affinity of their natures.
“ This mesmeric influence helps to annihilate space. This
is the secret influence that brings all spirits together, at any
moment, and yet disturbs not the spirit called from its spirit-
home.”
In answer to further remarks it was written: “ Dream-life is
threefold; whatever distresses is from the physical state,
except in cases where it may arise from the sleeper’s nature
being in' harmony with low spirits, who may then distress
him.” F. G-. Theobald.
Professok William Denton writes to us that he thought
of visiting England this year, but has postponed his visit
until 1876.
The percentage received by M. Leymarie, of Paris, on
Buguet’s photographs was in payment of Buguet’s debt to the
Spiritual Society there.
Mr. and Mrs. Hardy have returned to London from the
Continent, and have taken up their abode at 2, Vernon-place,
Bloomsbury, W.C. They will leave for the United States in
three weeks’ time.
Mr. Z. Test, the American gentleman who witnessed so
many of the manifestations at the house of the Baroness von
Yay, in Hungary, reached London last Tuesday, and letters
for him may be addressed to the office of the National Asso¬
ciation of Spiritualists.
M. de Yeii writes about the recent Paris trial: “ When
to the consternation of the judge and the procureur the letters
of Buguet were produced, they very angrily asked Buguet how,
after having written them, he had dared to say that Leymarie
knew all along that he (Buguet) was imposing on the public.
The answer of the confused scoundrel was—‘ We always
thought that he knew it; ’ and on that thought Leymarie was
condemned.”
Dr. Sexton at the Cavendish Rooms.—Last Sunday
evening, Dr. Sexton delivered a discourse at the Cavendish
rooms, Mortimer-street, Regent-street, on the doctrine of
“ Metempsychosis Ancient and Modern.” The congregation was
large and composed of highly intelligent persons, who seemed
interested in the subject and Dr. Sexton’s mode of treating it.
After a few preliminary remarks on the opinions entertained in
ancient times respecting the pre-existence of the soul, Dr.
Sexton preceded to observe that the doctrine of Metempsy¬
chosis was believed in throughout the Eastern world, before
Moses was found in his ark of bulrushes; that Alexander
the Great had gazed with amazement at the self-immola¬
tions with which it had inspired the Gymnosophists, and
that to-day it was accepted by almost the entire people of
Burmah, China, and India, numbering at least between six
and seven hundred millions of human beings. He dwelt upon
the new form, in which it had made its appearance in
modern times, as advocated first by Lessing and Fourier, and
more recently by Allen Kardec, Miss Blackwell, the Countess
of Caithness, and other Spiritualists. He expounded at great
length the various forms which the doctrine had assumed,
stated what he conceived to be the facts to which it owed its
origin, and gave numerous reasons for rejecting it. On
Sunday next the discourse will be on the “ Doctrine of Future
Life as taught in the Old Testament,” involving of course the
ancient Hebrew conceptions of spirit and spiritual existence.
Service commences at seven o’clock.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
In consequence of the influx of interesting news from the Con¬
tinent this week, several letters and paragraphs are kept over
until our next issue.
In the Press and will be shortly published in one volume, handsomely got
up, and printed on toned paper,
ANGELIC REVELATIONS
ON THE ORIGIN,. ULTIMATION, AND DESTINY OP THE
HUMAN SPIRIT.
Illustrated by the experience of Teresa Jacoby, now an Angel in t he
tenth state.
Contents.
Chap. 1.—The Unity of God. Incarnation of Deity.
„ 2.—The Unity of the Human Spirit. Union of Souls.
„ 3.—Appearances of the Human Spirit, and residences in the
Spiritual world,
„ 4.—Spiritual science. Science of the Kingdom of God.
„ 5.—The purpose of God in creation.
„ G.—The Divine Activity under the Form of Light.
„ 7.—The Human Body and Spiritual Planes.
,, 8.—The Planets Saturn and Ceres.
„ 9.—Spiritual Marriages,
„ 10.—Spiritual Symbols.
,, 11.—The Lost Orb. Parti.
„ 12.—The Angelic Society of Aaron’s Rod.
„ 13.—The Lost Orb. Part II.
,, 14.—Unity, Harmony, and Identity in Heaven.
„ «15.—The Lost Orb. Part III.
„ 16 to 30.—Experiences of a Spirit; containing an account of the
Birth, Parentage, and Death of Teresa Jacoby, with her experiences in the
other life, up through the states to the tenth in which she is now in, and
communicates as the Angel Purity.
With an introductory chapter by the Recorder, who gives a full account
concerning the giving of the communications.
The volume will be enriched with a Frontispiece photo printed, of the
Angel, the original of which was produced by the direct operation of
Spirits.
As the matter is unique, and the subjects treated of being of such a
thrilling interest, the editor has spared no expanse to make it a handsome
volume, and not being published with any regard to profit, it is hoped that
a large circulation may be obtained.
Price of the volume 6s., and an early application is requested in the mean¬
time, to be addressed—
MR. T. GASKELL,
69, OLDHAM-ROAD, MANCHESTER,
who has kindly consented to receive orders for the same.
July 9, 1875,
THE SPIRITUALIST.
in
BOOKS OK SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOG ST, MES¬
MERISM, ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY,
ON SALE AT THE
BRANCH OFFICE OF “ THE SPIRITUALIST ” NEWSPAPER,
88, GBEAT RUSSELL-STREET, BLOOMSBURY, LONDON, W.C.
(Entrance in Woburn-street).
ALL LETTERS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE MANAGER.
THE DEBATABLE LAND, by the Hon. Robert Dale Owen,
formerly American Minister at the Court of Naples. A standard work con¬
taining interesting and well authenticated facts, proving the reality of spirit
communion. It also contains an elaborate essay defining the author's views
of the relationship of Spiritualism to the Christian Church. 7s. Cd.
FOOTFALLS ON THE BOUNDARY OF ANOTHER WORLD,
by Robert Dale Owen. An excellent book of absorbing interest, replete with
well authenticated narratives, describing manifestations produced by spirits.
7s. 6d.
REPORT ON SPIRITUALISM, by the Committee of the Dialec¬
tical Society. This committee consisted of literary, scientific, and other pro¬
fessional men who investigated Spiritualism for two years without engaging
the services of any professional medium, after which they published the
report. Original edition, 15s.; moderately abridged edition, 6s.
RESEARCHES IN THE PHENOMENA OF SPIRITUALISM,
by William Crookes, P.R.S. The best work ever published to scientifically
demonstrate the reality of some of the physical phenomena of Spiritualism.
MIRACLES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM, by Alfred
Russell Wallace, F.R.G.S. This book contains a masterly argument in reply to
Hume’s “Essay on Miracles.” It also records a large number of interesting
spiritual manifestations, and contains some of the personal experiences of Mr.
Wallace. 6s.
PLANOHETTE, OR THE DESPAIR OF SCIENCE, by Epes
Sargent. A book rich in descriptions of well authenticated spiritual phenomena.
Information about the relationship of Spiritualism to Religion and Science is
also given. 7s. 6d.
CONCERNING- SPIRITUALISM, by Gerald Massey. A brilliant,
well written little essay on Spiritualism. Neatly bound, with gilt edges. 2s.
LETTERS ON SPIRITUALISM, by the late J. W. Edmonds,
Judge of the Supreme Court; New York, U. S. This book consists of essays on
the Social, Moral, and Scientific aspects of Spiritualism. 3s. 6d.
WHERE ARE THE DEAD ? OR SPIRITUALISM EX¬
PLAINED, by Fritz. A practically useful work for inquirers, giving general
information about English professional and non-professional mediums, also
about the periodical and other Literature of Spiritualism. 3s.
WHAT AM I? Yol. II., by E. W. Cox, Serjeant at Law. An
introduction to Psychology. This book admits the reality of some of the
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, but argues that they are produced by an
alleged Physic Force, unconsciously governed in its action by the thoughts of
the medium or the spectators. 8s. The first volume of this hook, which deals
chiefly with Physiology, is out of print.
GLIMPSES OF THE SUPERNATURAL, by the Rev. F. G.
Lee. D.C.L. This newly-published book contains Facts and Traditions relating
to Dreams, Omens, Apparitions, Wraiths, Warnings, and Witchcraft- The
author admits the reality of Spiritual visitations, but considers modern Spirit¬
ualism to be diabolical. He, however, gives valuable facts, previously unpub¬
lished, and prints the only authorised and complete account of the Apparition
seen by one of the ancestors of Lord Lyttleton. 2 Vpls., crown 8vo., 16s.
MIRACLES, PAST AND PRESENT, by the Rev. William
Mountford. The author is an acute and vigorous thinker, and a writer of un¬
questioned ability. Contents : The Anti-Supernaturalism of the Present Age;
Science! and the Supernatural; Miracles and Doctrine; Miracles and the
Believing Spirit; The'Scriptures and Pneunjatology; Miracles and Science;
the Spirit'and the Prophets Thereof; Anti-Supernatural Misunderstandings;
the Last Ecstatic; Matter and Spirit; the Outburst of Spiritualism; Thoughts
on Spiritualism; A Miracle Defined; Miracles as Signs; Miracles and the
Creative Spirit; Miracles and Human Nature ; Miracles and Pneumatology;
the Spirit and the Old Testament; the Old Testament and the New; the
Spirit; Jesus and the Spirit; Jesus and Resurrection; the Church and the
Spirit. 12mo., 600 pp. Cloth 10s. 6d.
THE RISE AND PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN
ENGLAND, by Benjamin Coleman. Contains important facts connected
with the early movement in this country with which the author was identified,
and an account of some of the most remarkable of his personal experiences. Is.
THE SOUL OF THINGS, by William Denton. In this extra¬
ordinary book the author, who is a Professor of Geology in America, employed
clairvoyants to reveal to him by vision, events connected with the early
history of geological specimens; these sensitives thus saw the Mastodon and
other extinct animals as if living and moving before them; they likewise saw
the scenes by which these prehistoric animals were suvrrounded. The author
also sent his clairvoyants to examine portions of different planets, and they
gave descriptions of the inhabitants, physical geography, and vegetation of
each. The book is illustrated ;with numerous engravings, drawn by the
’ : sensitives as the visions passed before their eyes. The substance of a review of
this book in “ The Spiritualist ” was to the effect that there is no doubt as to the
integrity of the author, who also possesses sufficient intelligence to select
clairvoyants who would not cheat him. The question as to the reliability of the
narratives therefore narrows itself down to the question of the reliability of
. | clairvoyance, which, when employed to gain information about distant places
on earth, has been found sometimes to give accurate results and sometimes
inaccurate results. The review further expresses the opinion that if ever inter¬
planetary communication should be established, it will he by mean%of clair¬
voyance or some other of the latent and little understood spiritual powers in
man. Three Vols. 24s.; or 8s. per single volume.
REAL LIFE IN SPIRIT LAND. Given through the medium-
ship of Mrs. Maria M. King. This book professes to give life experiences, scenes,
incidents, and conditions illustrative of spirit life. The preface says :—“Experi¬
enced spirits state propositions to man in the flesh as they would state them
to each other, expecting or hoping that they will not he taken for granted
because uttered bjr a spirit, but will be fully weighed in the light of all the
reason and experience possessed by those who receive their instructions.”
6s. Cd.
PROOF PALPABLE OF IMMORTALITY, by Epes Sargent.
This work, by an American author of acknowledged ability, gives an account
of the materialisation of Spirits in England and America during the past few
years in the presence of famous mediums, and, as a rule, before educated
witnesses of more or less literary and scientific ability. The work also con¬
tains remarks on the relations of the facts to theology, morals, and religion,
and it is prefaced with a portrait of the materialised spirit Katie King, copied
K9 from a photograph of her taken by Mr. Harrison by the aid of the magnesium
light, fs. fid. „ .
POEMS OF THE INNER LIFE. Given by Spirits through the
mediumship of Lizzie Doten. The accusation is sometimes made by disbeliever*
that spirit messages are of a trumpery character, hut these beautiful poems
give evidence that all Spirit utterances are not so. The “ The Prophecy of
vala,” published in this book and professedly given by the Spirit of Edgar
Allen Poe, is better than any which that poet wrote during the whole of his life
on earth. Best edition. Gilt, 10s. 6d.; cheap edition, 7s. (Jd.
POEMS OF PROGRESS. Given by spirits through the medium-
ship of Lizzie Doten. This, like the preceding work, is a collection of beautiful
poems. 7s. 6d.
PEOPLE FROM THE OTHER WORLD, by Col. H. S. Olcott.
Profusely illustrated. This book is dedicated to Mr. William Crookes and
Mr. Alfred Russell Wallace. The author is a literary gentleman of high stand¬
ing in New York, and the book consists of descriptions of seances at which
materialised spirits appeared under test conditions, in the presence of the
author and other witnesses, Pictures of the Eddy Brothers, their homestead,
and the phenomena presented at their seances, are included in the work. 14s.
NATTY, A SPIRIT; HIS PORTRAIT AND HIS LIFE. By
Allan Putnam. 4a.
BIBLE MARVEL-WORKERS, AND THE POWER WHICH
HELPED THEM TO PERFORM MIGHTY WORKS. By Allan Putnam.
6s.
THE CELESTIAL TELEGRAPH, OR SECRETS OF THE
LIFE TO COME Proved by many years experiments by means of eight
ecstatic somnambulists. Cahagnet, 10s.
HOW AND WHY I BECAME A SPIRITUALIST. By Wash¬
ington A. Danskin, 4s. 6d. '
PSALMS OF LIFE. A collection containing 150 pieces of music,
and 660 Spiritual hymns, compiled by John S. Adams. 6s.
POEMS BY ACHSA WT SPRAGUE, for many years a public
trance speaker on Spiritual Philosophy. 6s.
THE FUTURE LIFE, as described by Mrs. Elizabeth Sweet,
with an introduction by Judge Edmonds. 7s. 6d.
THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURE, given inspirationally through
the mediumship of Mrs. Maria M. King. 7s 6d.
THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF PHYSICAL MAN
SCIENTIFICALLY CONSIDERED. By Hudson Tuttle. This book argues
that man is contemporary with the Mastodon, and details the history of his
subsequent development. 7s. 6d.
THE IRRECONCILABLE RECORDS, OR GENESIS AND
GEOLOGY. By William Denton. 3s.
MORAL PHYSIOLOGY. By Robert Dale Owen. 3s. 6d.
LOOKING BEYOND, by J. O. Barratt, contains the testimony of
the departed about the world beyond the grave. 6s.
AN HOUR WITH THE ANGELS, by A. Brigham, a vision of
scenes in the Spirit Land. 3s. 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, OR MESSAGES FOR THE BEREAVED
FROM OUR LITTLE ONES IN GLORY, i Christian spirit-messages given
through the mediumship of F. J. T. (Part one), 6d.
HEAVEN OPENED, containing further descriptions of, and
advanced teachings from the Spirit Land. (Part two), 6d.
HINTS FOR THE EVIDENCES OF SPIRITUALISM, by
M. P. 2s. 6d.
WILL-ABILITY, by Joseph Hands, M.R.C.S.; contains experi¬
ments on Mesmerism and arguments relating to Free Will. 2s. 6d.
ARCANA QF NATURE, by Hudson Tuttle. 2 Vols., 12s.
STRANGE VISITORS, dictated through a Clairvoyant. 8s.
THE INNER MYSTERY. An inspirational poem by Lizzie
Doten. 2s.
ELECTRICAL PSYCHOLOGY, by Dod. 7s. 6d.
DAWN. An American Novel, advocating Progressive principles.
5s. 6d. •
FLASHES OF LIGHT FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD.
Through the mediumship of Mrs. Conant. 7s. 6d.
BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. CONANT. 7s. 6d.
CHRIST IDEA IN HISTORY, by Hudson Tuttle. 7s.
DENTON’S POEMS. 2s.
RADICAL DISCOURSES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
RADICAL RHYMES, by William Denton. 6s. 6d.
OUR PLANET, by William Denton. 7s. 6d.
BOOK OF MEDIUMS, by Allan Kardec. (Mrs. Wood’s1, rans-
lation.) 7s. 6d. «
THREADING MY WAY, by R. Dale Owen. 7s. 6d.
SEERS OF THE AGES, by J. M. Peebles. 5s.
THE SPIRITUAL PILGRIM, by J. M. Peebles. 7s. 6d.
ROUND THE WORLD, by J. M. Peebles. 10s. 6d.
STATUVOLENCE, OR ARTIFICIAL SOMNAMBULISM
7s. 6d.
MRS. CROWE’S NIGHT SIDE OF NATURE. 2s.
MODERN AMERICAN SPIRITUALISM, by Emma Hardinge.
15S. .mwuU
THE TWO WORLDS, by Brevior. 6s. 6d.
GLIMPSES OF A BRIGHTER LAND. An interesting little
book, containing messages given by Spirits through the Writing Mediumship
of a Lady. 2s. Cd.
PSYCHOLOGICAL MEDICINE, by Dr. Bucknill and Dr. Daniel
Tnkc 25s
APPARITIONS, by Newton Crosland, 2s. 6d.
THE RELIGIOUS SYSTEM OF THE AMAZULU, giving
information about Spiritual Phenomena among the Amazulti and other Tribes
of South Africa, by the Rev. Canon Callaway, M D., in three parts. 12s.
SECOND-HAND BOOKS.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, by Edwin Lee, M.D. Contains Record's
of Experiments relating to Mesmerism, Somnambulism, and Clairvoyance, and
philosophical considerations connected therewith. This work gained the prize
i; offered for competition by the Milan Society for the Encouragement of Arts
and Sciences. (Pub. at 7s. 6d.) 3s. 6d.
THE COMING MAN. By the Rev. James Smith, formerly -^di
of the “ Family Herald.” (2 Vols.) 10s.
THE PHILOSOPHY QF SPIRITS IN RELATION TO
MATTER. By 0. M. Burnett, M.D. 6s.
THE DEMONIACS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT.
m Farmer, 1765. 2s. 6d. __ ^
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
July 9, 1875,
BOOKS ON SPIRITUALISM, PSYCHOLOGY, MESMERISM,
ANTHROPOLOGY, AND BIOLOGY.—Continued.
WORKS BY ANDREW JACKSON DAYIS,
The “ Poughkeep&ie Seer." ' s. d.
Nature’s Divine Revelations . . . . . . . 15 0
The Physician. Vol. I. Gt. Harmonia . . . ..76
The Teacher. ,, II. u ... . .76
The Seer. „ III, „ . , . . ..76
The Reformer. „ IV. „ . . . ... 7 6
The Thinker. „ V. „ . , . . . 7 6
Miync Staff. An Autobiography of A. J. Davis . . . . .76
A Stellar Key to the Summer Land . . . . . .40
Arabuia, or Divine Guest . . . . . . . .76
Approaching Crisis, or Truth v. Theology . . . . .60
Answers to Ever-recurring Questions from'the People . . , .76
Children’s Progressive Lyceum Manual . . . . . .20
Death and the After-Life . . . . . . , .40
History and Philosophy of Evil . . . . . . .40
Harbinger of Health , . . . . . . . .76
Harmonial Man, or Thoughts for the Age . . . . . .40
Events m the Life of a Seer. (Memorander.) . . . . .76
Philosophy of Special Providence . . . . . . .30
Free Thoughts Concerning Religion. . . , . . .40
Penetralia; Containing Harmonial Answers 1. . . . .80
Philosophy of Spiritual Intercourse . . . . .66
The Inner Life, or Spirit Mysteries Explained . ... 7 6
The Temple—on Disease of Brain and Nerves . . . . .76
The Fountain, with Jets of New Meanings . . . . ,60
Tale of a Physician, or Seeds and Fruits of Crime . . . .60
The Diakka and their Earthly Victims . , . . , .26
Conjugal Love; Truth v. Theology , . . . .30
Morning Lectures . . . . . ; . . . .76
MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS
s. d.
Oriental Religions (Johnson) . . . . . ... 24 0
Religions of the World (Leigh)—A well-written little book, recommended by
The Spiritualist Newspaper . , . . . . . .26
Keys of the Creeds . . . . . . . . .60
The Wheel of the Law (Alabaster)—A book containing interesting particulars
and legends relating to Buddhism . . . . . . 14 0
Three Lectures on Buddhism (Eitel) . . . . . .60
History of American Socialisms (Noyes) . ... . . . 18 0
The Romantic History of Buddha (Beal) . . . . . .60
Catena of Buddhist Scriptures (Beal) . . . . . . 16 0
Threading my Way, an Autobiography, by Robert Dale Gwen . . .76
Travels of Fah-Hian and Sun-Yuu, Buddhist Pilgrims, from China to India
(400 a.d. and 618 a.d.). Translated from the Chinese by Samuel Beal,
B.A.,Trin. Coll.’, Cam. . . . . . . . . 10 6
The Nursery Tales, Traditions, and Histories of the Zulus, by the Rev.
Henry Callaway. M.D. In six parts . . . . . . 16 0
The Life (and Teachings of Confucius. Translated into English, with Pre¬
liminary Essays and Explanatory Notes, by James Legge, D.D. . . 10 6
Myths and Myth-makers. Old Tales and Superstitions interpreted by Com-
parative Mythology, by John Fisko, M.A. . . . . . 10 6
Awas-I-Hind, or A Voice from the Ganges, by an Indian Officer , . .60
The Life and Works of Mencius. Translated into English from the Chinese
Classics, by Janies Lsgge, D.D., LL D. . . . . 12 0
On Exalted States of the Nervous System; an (alleged) Explanation of the
Mysteries of Modern Spiritualism, Dreams, Trance, Somnambulism,
Vital Photography, Faith, Will, Origin of Life. Anaesthesia, and Nervous
Congestion, by Robert H. Collyer, M.D. . . . , .20
The Dervishes, or Oriental Spiritualism, by John P. Brown, Secretary of the
Legation of the United States of America at Constantinople . . 12 0
TRACTS AND PAMPHLETS.
WHAT'iS SPIRITUALISM? by Thomas Gales Forster. A
useful Tract for Inquirers. Is.
THE MINISTRY OF ANGELS REALISED, by A. E. New¬
ton. Is.
THE LIFE OF WILLIAM DENTON, by J. H. Powell. Is.
TWENTY YEARS ON THE WING; a Narrative of the Travels
and Labours of a Missionary Spiritualist, by the Rev. J. Murray Spear. Is.
MEDIUMS AND MEDIUMS HIP, by Thomas R. Hazard. 6d.
ELEVEN DAYS AT MORAVIA, by T. R. Hazard. 6d.
CLAIMS OF SPIRITUALISM; a Narrative of Personal Expe¬
riences in the Investigation of Spiritualism, by a Gentleman of Education
and Religious Culture, is.
MESMERISM AND ITS HEALING jPOWER, by Adolphe
Didier, 2ss
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. By Mr. Serjeant Cox. Is.
WHY I AM A SPIRITUALIST, AND WHY I AM NOT
ORTHODOX, by J. B. Angell. Judge Edmonds says of this little pam¬
phlet; “There is in it a good deal of genuine good feeling, sound common
sense, and deep thought.” 6d,
REVIVALS, THEIR CAUSE AND CURE, by Hudson
Tuttle. 2d.
CARTE DE VISITS PHOTOGRAPHS fOF CELEBRATED
AMERICAN SPIRITUALISTS.
Price One Shilling Each.
1. Judge Edmonds: 2. Professor Wm. Denton; 3. Miss Lizzie Doten; 4. Mr.
Luther Calby; 6. Mr. Isaac B. Rich: 6. The late Mr. William White; 7. Dr.
Frederick L. H. Willis; 8. Mr. J. M. Peebles; 9. Mr. A. J. Davis; 10. Mrs.
Conant. —
CART R DE VISIT E PORTRAITS OF MR. HENRY WARD
BEECHER (who is not a Spiritualist), Is. each.
WORKS BY THOMAS LAKE HARRIS.
THE GREAT REPUBLIC: a Poem of the Sun. 6s.
THE BREATH OF GOD WITH MAN. Is. 6d.
ARCANA OF CHRISTIANITY; The Apocalypse. Vol. I. 6s. 6d.
THE MILLENNIAL AGE. 2s. 6d.
LONDON SERIES OF SERMONS. Is.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1875.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
/Secrehwy.-r-Mr. Edwaid Hope, 74, Russell-sireet, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. William Davies.
Committee of Management.—Dr. William Hitchman, Messrs. John Priest.
R. Casson, James Coates, John Williams, Henry Jones, J. Haslam, E. G,
Irving, Mrs. Gay, and Miss Hilton.
Trustees.—Mr. Joseph Shepherd, Mr. John Lamont, Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.—Mr. Bretherton, Mr. H. J. Charlton.
HE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
jv—By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healtbfu
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion.
February, 1876.
Experiences of hafed, prince of Persia:
Communications in Trance through MR. DAVID DUGUID. With
Introduction and Appendix.
The isubscriner, in response to oft-repeated and earnest request, pro¬
poses to publish these Communications, the accumulation of the last five
years, so soon as the Subscription List indicates that they are wanted by
the Spiritual community.
The proposed volume will extend to not less than 650 demy 8vo. pages
(the size of the Spiritual Magazine or Human Nature), and will contain,
besides the Experiences of Hafed, about 600 Answers to Questions, many
of these on subjects of the, greatest interest; Communications from
Hermes, once an Egyptian priest, afterwards a personal follower of Jesus;
an Introduction, in which is given, along with some explanatory informa¬
tion, an account of the Mediumship of Mr. Dand Duguid, the Glasgow
Painting Medium; and an Appendix, containing very many interesting
communications from Ruisdai abd Steen, the old Dutch masters—Copies
of Direct Writings in Hebrew, Greek, La'in, and English—and a Brief
Statement of the Extraordinary Phenomena occurring under Mr. Duguid’s
mediumsbip.
The volume will be illustrated by 24 Lithograph Pictures, being fac¬
similes of Direct Drawings, the work of the Spirit Artists at sittings spe-
ci tlly appointed for their production. (For specimens of these see Spiritual
Magazine and Human Nature for May.) Various facsimiles of Direct
Writings will also be given in the body of the work and in the copious
appendix.
The book, which will be got up in the neatest and most substantial style,
will be sent to subscribers free for 10s. Subscribers for 6 copies will
receive 7 copies for the price of 6.
It is respectfully requested that, in the meantime, Subscribers’ Names
and Addresses be sent without dejay to Mrs. Kveritf, Lillian-villa, Hen¬
don, N.W ; or to Mr. T. Blyton, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston.
THE SOUL OF THINGS; ’
OR, PSYCHOMETRIC RESEARCHES AND DISCOVERIES
In Three Volumes, Fourth Edition.
By William and Elizabeth M. f. Denton.
“We have here a marvellous hook. It is calm, and seems perfectly
sincere, and yet it makes larger drafts upon our credulity than any work
we ever before met with. The old alchemists never conceived of anything
half so strange. Spiritualism, with all its wonders, is scarcely a vestibule
to what we are introduced to here.
“ Were there any reliance to be placed on these revelations, it would be
impossible to estimate the value of this newly-discovered power. It would
resolve a thousand doubts and difficulties, make geology as plain as day,
and throw light on all the grave subjects that time has so effectually ob¬
scured.”—New York Christian Ambassador.
“ In the varied wonders they describe there is a peculiar and intense
interest. If what is claimed in this book be true, it records the most
remarkable discovery yet made as regards the capacities of the human
mind in its abnormal state.”—Norfolk County Journal.
“ There is much extraordinary matter in these pages. It is a volume em¬
phatically deserving of the reader’s choicest study.”—Boston Traveller.
“ Though as concise as a text-book, we read The Soul of Things with the
fascination of a work of Action. Indeed, it is truth itself, stranger than
Action, written in the vivid style which is a part of Mr. Denton’s remark¬
able power.”—Amen'caw Spiritualist.
Price 8s. per volume.
Spiritualist Newspaper Branch Office, 38, Great Russell-st., London, W.O.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 69 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O.
rriHE SPIRITUAL AND PSYCHOPATHIC INSTI-
JL TUTE, 1, Dunkeld-street (opposite Emmanuel Church), West
Derby-road, Liverpool. 11 a.ru. to 4 p.m. Healers sent to all parts (terms
per arrangement.) J. and L. E. COATES, Principals.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Works, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holborn, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W.
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London E.O.
Wholesale and Retail by John Thomson, 39, John-st^eet, Glasgow.
Sold also by Mrs. Connor, 16, Fairclough-lane, Liverpool
