AND JOURNAL OF PSYCHOLOGICAL SCIENCE,
[REGISTERED FOR TRANSMISSION ABROAD.]
No. 75.—(Vol. IV.—No. 5.) LONDON: JANUARY 30, 1874. Published Weekly; Price Threepence.
Contents.
The Development of Physical Medinmship .... ...   49
Spirit Teachings ...        50
Lavater’s Letters to the Empress Marie of Russia    52
Swedenborg on Communion with Spirits ...    ... 53
Seances at Mrs. Makdougall Gregory’s  54
A Trance Lecture  ...   44
Spiritualism in Australia   ... 54
Five Weeks in a Trance...     55
Poetry.—The Ministry of Angels   57
The Outrage at a Spirit Circle   59
Correspondence.—The Outrage at a Spirit Circle, 57; Mesmeric Experi¬
ments, 58; Spiritualism and Science, 58; A “ Priori ” Objections to
Spiritualism     59
Paragraphs.—Inspirational Musical Talent, 53; The National Associa¬
tion, 54; Herr Dobler and Spiritualism, 60; Spiritual Literature ... 60
Crown 8vo. pp. 126, Cloth 2s. 6d.
HINTS for the “EVIDENCES of spiritualism,
By M.P.
London: Triibner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hilL
The Best Book for Enquirers. 2nd Edition.
WHERE ARE
EXPLAINED.
THE DEAD ? or, SPIRITUALISM
Containing well authenticated and selected reports of all the different
phases of modem spirit phenomena, from table-turning to the visible
materialisation of the faces and forms of the departed, and the photograph¬
ing of spirits ; proving by undeniable facts that those we mourn as
DEAD ARE STILL ALIVE,
and can communicate with us; and that Spiritualism is sanctioned by
Scripture, and consistent with science and common sense; with specimens
of intensely interesting communications received touching death, the future
life, and the experiences of the departed. Also extracts from the literature
of Spiritualism, advice to investigators, list of books, addresses of mediums,
and all useful information. By Fritz.
Price 3s.; or post free 39 stamps, from A. Ireland & Co., publishers,
Manchester, who will forward copies of the table of contents on applica¬
tion.
London: Simpkin, Marshall & Co.
East London spiritual meetings. — lec¬
tures giving information about Spiritualism are delivered every
Wednesday evening at 8.30 p.m., at Mr. Cogman’s Lecture Rooms, 15, St.
Peter’s-road, Mile-end. Inspirational addresses every Sunday evening, at
Seven o’clock. Admission Free. Supported by voluntary contributions.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUAL¬
ISTS.—Sunday Evening Services are Held at Goswell Hall,
86, Goswell-road, commencing at 7 o’clock. Admission free. Special
meetings, for Members only, on Thursday evening; also a Library for use
of Members. Prospectus and Rules may be had on application to the
Secretary at the Committee Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
R. Pearce, Non. Sec.
BIRKBECK BANK. Established 1851.—29 and 30,
Southampton-buildings, Chancery-lane.
Four per Cent. Interest allowed on Deposits.
Current Accounts opened similar to the Joint-Stock Banks, but without
any stipulation as to amount of balance to be kept
by the customer. Cheque Books supplied.
Purchases and Sales of British, Foreign, and Colonial Bonds, Stocks
Shares, &c., effected. Advances made thereon.
Office hours from 10 till 4, on Mondays from 10 till 9, and ,on Saturdays
from 10 till 2 o’clock.
A Pamphlet containing full particulars may be obtained gratis,
or sent post free on application to
FRANCIS RAVENSCROFT, Manager.
BEVERIDGE AND CO., Printers of The Spiritualist.
FULLWOOD’S-RENTS, HOLBORN, W.O.,
Respectfully announce that they execute ALL descriptions of Printing.
Estimates forwarded on application.
RS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN’S SUNDAY EVENING
DISCOURSES.
'New Course.
Committee:—
J. M. Gully, Esq., M.D.,' Chairman.
N. F. Dawe, Esq., Portman Chambers, Portman-square, W.
J. T. Hoskins, Esq., 5, Connaught-square, W.
T. H. Noyes, Jun., Esq., “United University Club,” Suffolk-street
Pall-mall,JS. W.
Thomas Slater, Esq., 136, Euston-road, N.W. ’
Mrs. Honywood, 52, Warwick-square, S.W., Treasurer.
Webster Glynes, Esq., 4, Gray’s-inn-square, W.C., Hon. Secretary.
At an influential meeting, recently held, the above-mentioned persons
were appointed a working Committee, with power to add to their number,
for inaugurating a further course of 12 Discourses by Mrs. Tappan, on
Sunday evenings.
The lectures commenced on the 18th January, and they will be con¬
tinued up to the 5th April next. Doors open at 6.15 p.m., to commence
at 7 precisely.
It is estimated that the expense of holding the course will be £144, or
£12 a night.
Of this amount it is expected that £50 only will be obtained from the
admission of the general public.
The balance of £94 must therefore be procured from other sources.
The Committee make an earnest appeal for support, and solicit libera
donations from the friends of the movement.
They feel sure that it would be a matter of great regret if these beauti¬
ful addresses, should have to be discontinued for want of support.
Transferable tickets, to admit one person to a reserve seat for the whole
series, will be sold at 5s., 12s. and 24s. the set. Seats, however, cannot
be reserved after the commencement of the service.
In order to prevent interruption it is requested that no person leave be¬
fore the conclusion of the service. No admittance after the discourse has
begun.
Sets of tickets for the course can be obtained of the Treasurer, or the
Hon. Secretary, on forwarding Post Office Order ; by whom donations will
be thankfully received; or of Mr. Bums, publisher, 15, Southampton-row
Holborn, who will give every information.
Single tickets 6d., Is., and 2s. each.
Tickets sold at the door.
Admission to the body of the Hall free.
THE LIVERPOOL PSYCHOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
Office-Bearers for 1873.
President.—James Wason, Esq. Vice-President.—Mr. John Lamont.
Secretary.
Mr. John Davidson, 45, Kensington, Liverpool.
Treasurer.—Mr. Chatham. Librarian.—Mr. H. J. Charlton.
Mr. Archibald Lamont.
Mr. William Meredith.
Mr. G. Wharmby.
Mr. Dinsdale.
Mr. R. Casson.
Mr. D. Gay.
Mr. T. B. Griffin.
Committee of Management.
Mrs. Gay.
Mr. Riece.
Mr, Davis.
Mr. Knox.
Mr. Garland.
Mr- Dean.
Mrs. Dinsdale.
Mrs. Casson.
Trustees.
Mr. Joseph Shepherd. | Mr. John Lamont.
Mr. J. Chapman.
Auditors.
Mr. Bretherton, | Mr. H. J. Charlton.
THE object of this Association is the discovery of truth
in connection with Psychology.
The Society seeks to attain its object by the following measures, or such
of them as from time to time are found to be practicable.
1. —By frequent meetings of its members for conference, inquiry, instruc¬
tion, mental improvement, spiritual culture, social intercourse, and healthful
recreation.
2. —By engaging in the education of children and others, for the purpose
of developing their physical, mental, and spiritual powers.
3. —By the dissemination of knowledge by means of public instruction
lectures, reading-rooms, the press, and spirit communion,
January 9th, 1874,
11
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 30, 1874.
Lately published,
WHAT AM I ? A Popular Introduction to Mental
Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. The MECHANISM of MAN
By EDWARD W. COX, Serjeant-at-Law. Price 8s. 6d.
Contents.
chap;
1. Introduction.
2. What am I?
3. The Man.
4. How we Grow.
5. How we live.
6. What Life is.
7. The Beginning of Life.
8. The Germ.
9. How we die,.
10. How we are Moved.
11. The Senses.
12. Of the Sense of Sight.
18. Of the Sense of Hearing.
14. Of the Senses of Taste and Smell.
15. Of the Sense of Touch.
16. Of the Evidence of the Senses.
17. About Life.
18. Of the Brain.
19. The Mechanism of the Mind.
20. Classification of the Mental
Powers.
21. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Propensities.
22. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentiments Common to
Man with the Lower Animals.
23. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Sentimfents Proper to
Man.
CHAP.
24. The Mechanism of the Mind:
The Intellectual Faculties.
25. The Mechanism of the Mind
The Faculties that perceive the
relations of external objects.
26. The Mechanism of the Mind.
The Reflective Faculties.
27. Of the Memory.
28. How the Machinery of the Mind
' wofEs.
29. Of the Will.
30. The Soul—its Dwelling and its
Destiny.
31. Soul—Spirit—Anima,
32. The Argument.
83. Consciousness.
34. Presumptive Proofs.
35. TheNaturaland the Supernatural.
36. What the Soul is.
37. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
38. The Shape of the Soul.
39. The Condition of the Soul after
Death.
40. The Outlook of the Soul.
41. The Pre-existence of the Soul.
42. The Dwelling-place of the Soul.
43. The Condition of the Soul.
44. The Mystery.
45. Conclusions.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
A most useful and charming book.—Standard.
Serjeant Cox sketches his psychological system with a bold, free, and no
unsteady hand.—Daily Review.
Written in such plain language and in such a popular and entertaining
style.—Oxford Herald.
A remarkable hook.—Builder.
A work that may be very profitably read.—Figaro.
We commend it to the serious study of those who would find an intelli¬
gible answer to the momentous question “What am I?”—Leicester Mercury
Mr. Sergeant Cox’s work is full of thought, and well worth reading.—
Morbing Post.
Contains much ingenious speculation which, at least, seems to solve some
of the manifold mysteries of Mfo.—Leicester Daily Post.
There is much to challenge the attention of reflective readers.—Bristol
Mercury.
The work will be found of the greatest value, not only to the scientific
scholar, but to every reader who is desirous of knowing himself.—Irish
Daily Telegraph.
We think very highly of this attempt to set forth psychology.—Literary
Churchman.
These speculations are full of interest.—South Wales Daily News.
We await the second volume with some anxiety, anticipating much food
for thought and speculation.—Eastern Daily Press.
This book, is rightly termed popular; a book, which for clearness of
statement, is worthy of all Norwich Mercury.
The industry and research of the author are only equalled by the ability
in marshalling his facts.—Somerset Gazette.
London: Longman and Co., Paternoster-row.
Just published,
The second volume of “what am i ?”
A Popular Introduction to Psychology and Mental Philosophy. By
EDWARD W. COX, Sergeant-at-Law. Price 10s. 6d.
This Volume completes the work. It treats of the Mechanism of Man in
action. The following are the
Contents :—
CHAP.
Preface.
1. Introductory.
2. Of the Intelligent Motive Forces.
3. The Conditions of Existence.
4. The Mechanism in Health.
5. Of Sleep.
6. Of Dreams.
7. Of some of the Phenomena of
Sleep and Dreams
8. Of Delirium.
9. Of Insanity.
10. Of Natural Somnambvdism.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism. I.
The Condition.
11. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
II. Clairvoyance.
13. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
III. The Mental Phenomena.
14. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
IV. Catalepsy.
15. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
V. Insensibility and Uncon-
sciousness.
chap:
16. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VI. History.
17. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VII. Healing Power.
18. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
VIII. Supersensuous Percep¬
tion.
19. Of Artificial Somnambulism.
. IX. Thought Reading.
20. Of Trance.
21. Of Unconscious Cerebration.
22. Of Psychic Force.
23. Of Psychic Force. I. The
Proofs.
24. Of Psychic Force. II. Its Phy¬
siology.
25. Of Psychic Force. HI. The
Directing Inteligence.
26. Other Psychic Phenomena. I.
Communicated.
27. Other Psychic Phenomena. II.
Experiments.
28. The Summing Up
29. The Conclusions.
VOL. I. MAT BE HAD, PRICE 8s. 6d.
London: Longman & Co., Paternoster-row.
The progressive spiritualist and free
THOUGHT ADVOCATE, a Weekly Journal. Edited by J. Tyekman.
Price Threepence. Tojbe had of W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street Melbourne,
and all Australian Booksellers,
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3RD, 1874.
Shaftesbury-park Estate, Lavender-hill, Wandsworth'-
road, S. W.
MRS. CORA L. V. TAPPAN
WILL DELIVER AN ADDRESS ON
SPIRITUALISM.
JAMES THORNTON HOSKINS, ESQ., M.A., WILL PRESIDE.
Admission—Reserved seats Is., second seats 6d., third seats Id.
Tickets may be obtained at the door, or at No. 1, Great College-street,
Westminster.
The Chair will be taken at 8 p.m. precisely. Doors open at 7.15 p.m.
DALSTON ASSOCIATION OF ENQUIRERS INTO
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.)
President.—Mr. Alfred E. Lovell.
Council.
Mrs. O. A. Blyton, | Mr. A. M. Greene,
Mr. George Blyton, j Mr. Joseph Stephens,
Mrs. Amelia Comer, | Mr. R. Pomeroy Tredwen,
Mr. Thomas Wilks.
Mr. A. M. Greene, Secretary, pro. tern.
A DESIRE for investigation being felt by many on hear¬
ing of the phenomena of Spiritualism, several residents in Dalston
and its neighbourhood thought that if an Association were formed, and in¬
vestigation instituted, the alleged facts of Spiritualism, if true, might be
demonstrated. Accordingly, a preliminary Meeting was called and this
Association formed on the 15th September, 1870.
Its purposes are the collection of facts, through its own circle, or circles,
so as to form a perfect basis for honest opinion, and by various means to
induce others to give the matter careful enquiry, before judging of the
manifestations of modern Spiritualism.
Ordinary experimental seances are held weekly, on Thursday evenings, at
8 p.m., to which Members are admitted, as well as Members of similar
Associations (vide Rule IX). Strangers can only be admitted to the ordi¬
nary seance held on the first Thursday evening in each month, on introduction
by a Member. The last Thursday evening in each month is devoted to
special seances with professional media, lectures, discussions, reading of
papers, or narration ef experiences of investigators; to which strangers are
admitted, under the same regulations as are enforced on tho first Thursday
evening in each month.
All communications to be addressed to the Secretary, at the Rooms of the
Association, 74, Navarino-road, Dalston, E. A stamped addressed envelope
should be enclosed in all letters requirhlg replies.
Dalston association of enquirers into
SPIRITUALISM. (Established 1870.) Rooms, 74, Navarino-road,
Dalston, E. Stances on Thursday evenings. Library for use of members
Subscriptions :—Ordinary, 3S. quarterly ; 5s. half-yearly ; 10s. annual
Honorary, 5s. quarterly; Life Membership, by donation of £2 2s. Prospectus
and Rules on application to the Secretary.
ALFRED E. LOVELL, President.
Mr. A. M. GREENE, Secretary pro. tem.
THE ST. JOHN’S ASSOCIATION OF SPIRITUALISTS.
President.—Mr. R. Barber.
Committee.
Mrs. Barber, I Mr. R. Howorth,
Mr. W. Cotter, | Miss Ranger,
Mr. Warner Thompson.
Librarian.—Mr. J. Cain. Treasurer.—Mr. J. S. Steele.
Honorary Secretary.—Mr. Richard Pearce.
VE£!
soon after the introduction of Modern Spiritualism
England the subject attracted attention in ’Clerkenwell and
neighbourhood, where several circles were formed, some of which were
continued for a long number of years, and the great and increasing pressure
from strangers for admission thereto led, in May, 1869, to the formation of
this Assocciation.
It seeks as its main object to assist, by various means, any person desirous
to obtain information respecting Spiritualism, or to commence the investiga¬
tion of its facts; but, whilst Members unite for this purpose, they have
opportunities of improving their own knowledge of its teachings and varied
phenomena, of becoming acquainted with the experience and opinions of
others, and with the general literature of the movement.
Free public Services are held on Sunday evenings at Goswell Hall, 86,
Goswell-road, and other meetings (of which announcement is duly made)
are held on Thursday evenings; the latter meetings consist of seances, con¬
ferences, narrations of' experience, the reading of papers, &c. Strangers
are admitted on Thursday evenings on the introduction of a Member.
Social gatherings are ocasionally held for bringing Members and friends
nto closer acquaintance with one another. The Library is for the use of
Members only.
Further information may be obtained from the Officers of the Association
at the meetings, or by letter addressed to the Secretary at the Committee
Rooms, 30, Parkfleld-street, Islington.
LONDON
VOiLUjVIE FOUR. J\rUJWBEF( flYE.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 30th, 1874
Established in 1869.
CHARGE FOR ADVERTISEMENTS Three shillings
and sixpence for tlie first fifty 'words or portion of fifty words, and
sixpence for every ten words in addition. Ten initial letters or figures
count as one word. Displayed Advertisements Five Shillings per inch
Reduced terms for extended periods.
The Spiritualist is a very good medium for advertisements, because it
circulates largely among those whom advertisers desire to reach, and an
advertisement is not lost to view amid a mass of others. Moreover, the
paper is not usually torn up when read, but preserved for binding.
Oorkespondenoe.—Correspondents who write letters consisting of per¬
sonal opinions, for publication, are requested not to make them more
than a third of a column long. Letters containing important news or im¬
portant facts may be longer sometimes.
All communications for the Advertising Department of this newspaper,
to be addressed to Mr. T. Blyton, 11, Ave Maria Lane, London, E.C.; and
orders intended for the Friday’s issue should reach the office not later
than by the first post on the previous Wednesday morning. All
orders for papers, and letters for the Publishing Department should be
directed to Mr. E. W. Alien, at the same address; and all communications
for the Literary Department should be addressed to the Editor.
Subscriptions':—No notice is taken of orders received for papers unac¬
companied by a remittance. The next twelve copies of The Spiritualist
will be posted to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of 3s. 6d.
London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.C.
Any delay or irregularity in the supply of 11 The Spiritualist" in
London or in the provinces is-the fault of the local newsvendor or his
City agent. Our publisher, Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane,
E.C., should always be informed of such impediments and irregulari¬
ties, and copies can then be ordered of him by post, direct.
SUBSCRIBERS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
The Spiritualist may be ordered through the following dealers in Spiritual
periodicals:—
UNITED STATES.
Rochester, N. Y.—D. M. Dewey, Arcade Hall.
Denver, Colorado.—S. A. Grant and Co., 383, Lorimer-street.
New Orleans.—George Ellis, 7, Old Levee-street.
San Francisco.—Herman Snow, 319, Kearney-street.
St. Louis.—Warren, Chase and Co., 614, North Fifth-street.
Philadelphia.—D. S. Cadwallader, 241, North Eleventh Street.
Washington.—Richard Roberts, 1026, Seventh Street.
AUSTRALIA.
Melbourne.—W. H. Terry, 96, Russell-street.
„ Mr. B. Needham, bookseller, &c., 154, Bourke-street.
„ Mr H. G. Wynne, bookseller, &c., 149, Swanston-street.
,, Mr. F. W. Needham, bookseller, 175, Elizabeth-street.
Carlton.—Mr. R. C. Thornton, 19, Queeusberry-street.
Emerald Hill.—Mr. C. A. Durham, news agent, &c., 118, Clarendon-street
Fitzroy.—Mrs. Campbell, news agent, 78, Gertrude-street.
„ Mrs. Woodruff, news agent, 74, Bcuaswiek-street.
Richmond.—Mr. J. Cary, news agent, Bridge-road,
Sandridge.—J. T. Scholes, news agent, Bay-Street,
Castlemaine.—H. Bamford, Bull-street.
Sandhurst —J. Williams, 228, High-street.
Stawell.—M. Thornfeldt, Main-ttreet.
Taradale.—J. T. Riley, High-street.
Or The Spiritualist may be had by post direct from the London publisher.
Mr. E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. PauPs-churchyard, by remitting
to him the amount for the next thirty numbers, with postage. To America,
Australia, and New Zealand the postage for each number is one penny,
thus the total cost of thirty numbers is 10s., which may be remitted by
Post Office Order. The cost of a Post Office Order for sums less than £2
between most of the English-speaking countries on the globe, and London,
is one shilling.
JjlEMALE MEDICAL SOCIETY.
The Female Medical Society is established for the following objects:—
1. —To promote the employment of properly educated women in the
practice of Midwifery, and the treatment of the Diseases of Women and
Children.
2. —To provide educated women with proper facilities for learning the
theory and practice of Midwifery, and the accessory branches of Medical
Science.,
The addresses of skilled Lady Mid wives, Prospectuses of the College, and
all particulars as to the operations of the Society, may be obtained of the
Lady Secretary.
Temporary Offices—4, Fitzroy-square, W.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF PHYSICAL MEDIUMSHIP.
Like travellers exploring a previously unknown
country, Spiritualists have to encounter many diffi¬
culties, which the experience gradually acquired gives the
power of avoiding in the future. Not the least diffi¬
culty which has to be surmounted is the discovery of
the best method of allowing physical mediumship to
develope, so that its dangers may he avoided, and the re¬
results be beneficial both to the sensitive and his friends.
Experience seems to show the truth of the oft-repeated
statement that “ the lower the spirit the greater is its
direct power over common matter.” Probably because
of their nature and affections, the lower spirits are
more closely allied than others to the things of earth.
Disturbances take place in haunted houses without the
presence even of any medium at all, and such mani¬
festations are usually produced by spirits who have
committed great crimes in the building about which
they hover. The physical manifestations produced
through mediums are rarely accompanied by high in¬
telligence, nor are the communications in many cases
of the highest veracity, so that, if our only method of
communicating with the next world were by means of
the physical manifestations, our general ideas of the
goodness of the spirits who communicate would be
somewhat discouraging. When the affections of the
medium are all centred upon physical pleasures, with
no liking for upright principles or the progress of truth,
the manifestations produced through such a medium
may be very wonderful, but come from excessively
low spirits. Yet it must be remembered that as upon
earth, so in the next world, there are two classes of
low spirits—firstly, those whose intentions are bad and
mischievous; secondly, those who desire to rise and to
do good. If these latter spirits work under the in¬
structions of higher ones in producing the manifesta¬
tions, it is conceivable that high mental and moral
teachings may be combined with very powerful physical
mediumship. Are there not such cases on record ?
Take, for instance, the splendid manifestations wit¬
nessed by Mr. Livermore, the New York banker,
through the mediumship of Miss Kate Fox, at whose
seances Mr. Livermore’s departed wife made h’erself
visible, as a form of surpassing beauty, and wrote
messages to him in the same handwriting with which
she communicated on earth. Moreover, Benjamin
Franklin made himself clearly visible at the seances, and
gave correct dates and particulars relating to himself.
These manifestations took place in the early days of
the mediumship of Miss Fox, and it is worth while to
raise the question whether the more reliable and truth¬
ful manifestations given through physical mediums, have
not as a general rule, taken place in the early days of
their mediumship, and among private friends. The
general tendency of the experience already acquired by
observation, teaches that after good physical mediums
are unfortunately thrust out by circumstances into the
50
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 30,1874.
■world, so that their mediumship is ho longer exclu¬
sively confined to friendly influences and to social life,
the mental and moral character of the manifestations
begin to deteriorate. This is probably due to the cir¬
cumstance that the mediums are dragged down by the
low mental and moral condition of the sitters into
whose presence they come, who begin to tie the medium
with ropes and tapes, or to screw them down with
wires, thereby introducing a low moral element into
spirit circles, and surrounding the medium with a
mental atmosphere which can only he penetrated by
the very lowest spirits from the next world. Ropes
and chains so applied prove that there is something
morally rotten in the circle, for they demonstrate either
that the medium is an impostor, consequently that it is
necessary to apply the tests, or that the sitters suspect
an innocent person of being an impostor; in either
case the moral atmosphere of that circle is impure, and
if spirits communicate by affinity, the better spirits
manifestly cannot gain entrance thereto if they wish.
Sometimes, if bad influences get about the medium,
they can be cleared away in a week or two by sur¬
rounding that medium by good conditions, but if a
medium has been exposed for several months to the
influences of low class sitters and spirits, it seems
doubtful whether the dark influences brought about
them can ever be got rid of afterwards.
These are mere speculations upon a very serious sub¬
ject; but if it be true, as experience seems to prove,
that when mediumship first developes in a medium of
upright character, surrounded only by personal friends,
that the higher and lower manifestations are obtained
together, and if it be also true that when physical
mediums have to face the impurities of the world, they,
as a general rule, lose the higher manifestations, and
retain only the lower, Spiritualists ought to ascertain
the cause, and having discovered that cause, should be
careful to protect all newly-developed mediums from
danger.
To reduce these ideas to practice, we think that
people who want physical tests should be obliged to go
to professional mediums, who are obliged to submit to
physical tests, to meet the average wants of the mis¬
cellaneous minds which constantly come into their
presence. There may be also some few unprofessional
mediums who are known to be unreliable and untruth¬
ful, who also might be subjected to physical tests at
their seances. But outside and above all these, we
ought to have circles to which none but persons who
do not cheat each other, and whose word is their bond,
can get access, and the medium should be one of known
integrity of character, thoroughly and deservedly
trusted by the sitters. To such circles inquirers who
in their hearts desire physical tests should never have
access. Under these conditions, it would probably be
possible to obtain the higher and lower manifestations
together, and be possible for the departed friends of the
sitters to make themselves visible, to prove their
identity, and to converse with their relatives as they
did in earth life. If such conditions are absolutely
necessary to obtain such perfect results, it is clear that
Spiritualism is passing its votaries through a splendid
practical religious education, and that the highest
manifestations can only be witnessed by those who, by
their lives, prove themselves worthy to receive the
demonstration.
SPIRIT TEACHINGS.*
NO. V.
After a conversation on the influences direct and in¬
direct which spirits exercise on men ; something was said
as to the character most amenable to influence, and I
ashed for information.
Friend, there are varieties of mediumship as you
know, and there are divers modes in which spirit in¬
fluence is exercised. Some are selected for the mere
physical peculiarities which make them the ready
vehicles of spirit power. Their bodily organisation is
peculiar, and the more undeveloped spirits readily make
their presence manifest through them. They have no
mental qualifications, and information given by the
spirits who use them would be of a trifling or even
foolish nature, and untrustworthy. They are used as
the means of demonstrating spirit power; the reality of
external invisible agency capable of producing objec¬
tive phenomenal results.
These are known to you as the physical media.
Their work is not less significant than that which is
wrought through others. They, are concerned with
the foundation of belief.
And some are chosen because of their loving gentle
nature. They are not the channels of physical phe¬
nomenal action; in many cases, not even of conscious
communication with the spirit world ; but they are the
recipients of spirit guidance, and their pure and
gentle souls] are cultivated and improved by angel
superintendence. By degrees they are prepared to be
the conscious recipients of communications from the
spheres; or they are permitted with clairvoyant eye to
catch stray glimpses of their future home. A loving
spirit friend is attracted to them, and they are impres-
sionally taught and guided day by day. These are the
loving souls who are surrounded by an atmosphere of
peacefulness and purity of love. They live as bright
examples in the world, and pass in ripe maturity to
the spheres of rest and peace for which their earth
life has fitted them.
Others, again, are intellectually trained and prepared
to give to man extended knowledge and wider views of
truth. Advanced spirits influence the thoughts, sug¬
gest ideas, furnish means of acquiring knowledge, and
of communicating it to mankind. The ways by which
spirits so influence men are manifold. They have
means that ye know not of by which events are so
arranged as to work out the end they have in view.
The most difficult task we have is to select a medium
through whom the messages of the higher and more
advanced spirits can be made known. It is necessary that
the mind chosen should be of a receptive character, for we
* In the Spiritualist of August 15th, an account was printed of some
remarkable seances held at the house of Mr. Stanhope T. Speer, M.D.,
Douglas-house, Alexandra-road, St. John’s-wood, through the mediumship
of a gentleman in private life who does not wish his name to be published.
It will be remembered that most of thespirits gave their names and proved
their identity; also that the extracts they gave from their writings were found,
after laborious search in the British Museum Library and elsewhere, to be
true. Hence there is evidence that spirits can give teachings through this
medium, free, to a large extent at all events, from colour from his own
thoughts; consequently, the “spirit teachings” printed above, obtained
through his mediumship, may be assumed to be to a considerable extent
reliable. It is proper to state that these, communications are selected in
chronological order from a mass which has been given continuously for the
past six months. Many of the originals are of such a personal nature that
they are necessarily omitted, otherwise no change is made. The commu¬
nicating spirits are many: each gives his name and details of his earth-life
very fully. These facts, in all cases unknown to the medium previously,
have been invariably found to be correct in every particular. The hand¬
writing, peculiar to the communicating intelligence, is always preserved
and the individuality remains throughout the same.—Ed.
THE SPIHITTJALIST.
51
Jan. 30, 1874.
cannot put into a spirit more information than it can
receive. Moreover, it must be free from foolish worldly
prejudices. It must be a mind that has unlearned its
youthful errors, and has proved itself receptive of truth,
even though that truth be unpopular.
More still. It .must be free from dogmatism, It
must not be rooted and grounded in earth notions. It
must be free from the dogmatism of theologies and sec¬
tarianism and rigid creed. It must not be bound down
by the fallacies of half-knowledge which is ignorant of
its own ignorance. It must be a free and enquiring
soul. It must be a soul that loves progressive know¬
ledge, and that has the perception of truth afar off.
One that yearns for fuller light, for richer knowledge
than it has yet received; one that knows no hope of
cessation in drinking in the truth.
Again, our work'must not be marred by the self-
assertion of a positive antagonistic mind, nor by the
proud obtruding of self and selfish ends and aims. With
such we can do very little, and that little must all tend
to the gradual obliteration of selfishness and dogmatism.
We desire a capable, earnest, truth-seeking, unselfish,
loving spirit for our work. Said we not well that such
was difficult to find among men. Difficult indeed, well-
nigh impossible. We select, then, such a soul as we
can best find, and prepared by constant training for its
appointed work. We inspire into it a spirit of love
and tolerance for opinions that do not find favour with
its own mental bias. This raises it above dogmatic
prejudice, and paves the way for the discovery that
truth is manifold, and not the property of any in¬
dividual. Store of knowledge is given as the soul can
receive it; and, the foundation of knowledge once laid,
the- superstructure may be safely raised. The opinions
and tone of thought are moulded by slow degrees, so
that they harmonise with the end we have in view.
Many and many fail here, and we abandon our work
with them, finding that not in this world of yours can
they receive the truth ; that old earth-born prejudices
are firm, dogmatism ineradicable, and so that they
must be left to time, and are to us of no avail.
Moreover, a perfect truthfulness and absence of fear¬
fulness and anxiety are the steady growth of our teach¬
ing. We lead the soul to rest in calm trust on God and
His spirit teachers. We infuse a spirit of patient wait¬
ing for that which we are permitted to do and teach.
This spirit is the very reverse of that fretful, restless
querulousness which chai’acterises many souls.
Here, too, many fall away. They are fearful and
anxious, and beset with doubt. The old theology tells
them of a God, who watches for their fall; and of a
devil, who lays perpetual traps for them. They wonder
at the novelty of our teaching; their friends are ready
to point to so-called prophecies which tell of anti-
Christ. The old foundations are shaken, and the new
are not yet laid; and so the adversaries creep in and
tempt the wavering soul, and it fears and falls away,
and is useless to us.
Yet more, we must eradicate selfishness in all its
many forms. There must be no obtruding of self, or
we can do nothing. There is nothing so utterly fatal
to spirit influence as self-seeking, self-pleasing, boast¬
fulness, arrogance, or pride. The intelligence must be
. subordinated, or we cannot work upon it. If it be
dogmatic, we cannot use it. If it be arrogant and
selfish, we cannot come near it. Self-abnegation has
been the virtue which has graced the wise and holy
men of all time. The seers who bore of old the flag
on which was inscribed for their generation the message
of progressive truth were men who thought little of
themselves, and much of their work. They who spoke
to the Jews, whose messages you have in your sacred
records, were men of self-denying purity and single¬
ness of life. Jesus, when He lived amongst men, was
a grand and magnificent instance of the highest self-
abnegation and earnestness of purpose. He lived with
you a life of pure self-denial and practical earnest
work, and He died a death of self-sacrifice for truth.
In Him you have the purest picture that history re¬
cords of man’s possible. They who since have purged
the world from error, and have shed on it the beams of
truth, have been one and all men of self-denial and
earnest devotion to a work which they knew to be that
for which they were set apart. Socrates and Plato,
John and Paul, the pioneers of truth, the heralds of
progress, all have been unselfish souls—souls who knew
naught of self-seeking, of proud aggrandisements, of
boastful arrogance. To them earnestness and single¬
ness of purpose, devotion to their appointed work, for¬
getfulness of self and its interests were given in a high
degree. Without that they could not have effected
what they did. Selfishness would have eateij out the
heart of their success. Humility, sincerity, and ear¬
nestness bore them on.
This is the character we seek. Loving and earnest,
self-denying and receptive of truth; with single eye
to God’s work, and with forgetfulness of earthly
aims. Hare it is, rare as it is beautiful. Seek, friend,
the mind of the philosopher, calm, reliant, truthful
and earnest! Seek the spirit of the philanthropist,
loving, tolerant, ready to help, quick to give the
needed aid. Add the self-abnegation of the servant of
God who does his work and seeks not his reward. For
such work, high, holy, noble, is possible. Such we
guard and watch with jealous care. All such the
angels of the Father smile and tend and protect from
injury.
But you have described a perfect character.
Ah no ! Ye have now no conception of what the perfect
spirit is. Ye cannot know; ye cannot even picture it.
Nor can ye know how the faithful soul drinks in the spirit¬
teaching and grows liker and liker to its teacher. Ye
see not as we see the gradual growth of the seed which
it has cost us so much labour to plant and tend. Ye
only know that the soul grows in kindly graces, and
becomes more lovely and more loveable. The char¬
acter we have faintly pictured in such terms as are
intelligible to you is not perfect, nor aught but a vague
and distant resemblance of that which it shall become.
With you is no perfectness. Hereafter is progression
and constant development and growth. What ye call
perfect, is blotted and blurred with faults to spirit
vision.
Yes, surely. But very few such are to be found.
Few, few: and none save in the germ. There is
the capability on which we work with thankfulness.
We seek not for perfection : we do but desire sincerity
and earnest desire for improvement: a mind free and
receptive ; a spirit pure and good. Wait in patience.
Impatience is a dire fault. Avoid over carefulness and
anxiety as to causes which are beyond your control.
Leave that to us; In patience and seclusion ponder
what we say.
I suppose a secluded life is favourable for your
influence, rather than the busy whirl of town. [Writing
changes.]
52
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan, 30, 1874.
Friend, the busy world is ever averse from the things
of spirit life. Men become absorbed in the material,
that which they can see, and grasp, and hoard np, and
they forget that there is a future and a spirit-life;
They become so earthly that they are impervious to our
influence ; so material that we cannot come near them:
so full of earthly interests that there is no room for
that which shall endure when they have passed away.
More than this, the constant pre-occupation leaves no
time for contemplation, and the spirit is wasted for
lack of sustenance; The spiritual state is weak : the
body is worn and weary with weight of work and
anxious care, and the spirit is well-nigh inaccessible.
The whole air, moreover, is heavy with conflicting
passions, with heart-burnings and jealousies, and con¬
tentions and all that is inimical to us. Found the
busy city with its myriad haunts of vice, its detestable
allurements, its votaries of folly and sin, hover over
the legions of the opposing spirits who watch for
opportunity to lure the wavering to their ruin. They
urge on many to their grief hereafter, and cause us
many sorrows and much anxious care.
The life of contemplation is that which most suits
communion with us. It is not indeed to supersede
the life of action, but may be in some sort combined
with it; It is most readily practised where distracting
cares come not in, and where excessive toil weakens not
the bodily powers. But the desire must be inherent
in the soul; and where that is, neither distracting cares
nor worldly allurements avail to prevent the recognition
of a spirit world, and of communion with it. The
heart must be prepared. But it is easier for us to make
our presence felt when the surroundings are pure and
peaceful.
T hav* been asked to put a question on a communica¬
tion lately printed. Why must the life of action precede
the life of contemplation ?
Friend, the life of action is that to which the in¬
carnated spirit is devoted. The soul sustained in a
body of flesh is put there for the purpose of energizing,
that is, of using and developing in active use faculties
which are implanted in it. In discharging its duties it
learns by experience the lessons necessary for its pro¬
gress. It is gifted with certain faculties, charged
with certain obligations, provided with means of de¬
veloping the faculties and discharging the duties. In
proportioa as this is duly done does the soul progress.
This, you will see, necessitates a life of energy and
activity. The life of dreamy inaction is fatal to de¬
velopment. It was not intended to preclude altogether
contemplation and meditation. Far otherwise, medita¬
tion in due measure is the necessary correlative of an
active life. I did not mean that it must be as the re¬
pose that follows toil, not as the sloth which precludes
effort. This sphere of life is man’s sphere of active
energy. Nay, until the energizing spirit has passed
through the seven spheres of action it may not enter
on the life of contemplation in the spheres beyond.
When it has reached that bound its faculties have
reached such measure of development as is possible for
them, and the soul passes to the life of contemplative
introspection in the spheres where are gathered the
free and perfected souls who have reached the state of
rest. But here is activity rather than repose.
We have received enough letters respecting Mr. Volckman’s
conduct towards Miss Cook to fill a number of this journal,
but publish only a few, as personal matters are usually of
little public interest.
LAYATER’S LETTERS TO THE EMPRESS MARIE
OF RUSSIA.
LET TEE IV. CONTINUED—ON THE IMMOETALITY OE THE SOUL.
A lettee from a deceased person to a friend on earth,
on the condition of disembodied spirits :—
“At last, my beloved, it is possible for me (although
only partially), to satisfy our mutual desire that I should
communicate something of my present condition. On
this pccasion I can give you but few details; all will
depend on the use you make of my communications. I
know that the desire you feel to acquire information
concerning me, and the general state of disembodied
spirits is very great, but it cannot surpass my wish to
reveal to you all that is possible.
“ The power to love of the spirit that is loved in the
material world, increases beyond all expression when he
becomes a citizen of the immaterial world. With the
; increase of affection, the desire augments to communi¬
cate to those whom he has known, all that he is per¬
mitted to relate.
“ I ought to begin, my well beloved, for whom my
affection daily increases, by explaining to you by what
means it is possible for me to write to you, without
actually touching the paper or guiding the pen, and how
I can converse with you in a terrestrial language that
in my normal state I do not comprehend. Imagine to
yourself that my actual state differs from my preced¬
ing condition, even as that of the butterfly differs from
the chrysalis. I represent the transfigured and eman¬
cipated chrysalis, having passed through two meta¬
morphoses. Even as the butterfly flutters around and
amidst the flowers, we frequently float around the
heads of the good, but not always. A light invisible to
mortal eyes, save to those that are clairvoyant, shines
around the head of all good, loving, and religious men.
The idea of the nimbus with which painters surround
the heads of saints is essentially true and rational. No
being can be happy without this light, which sympathis¬
ing with our aura, attracts us towards itself in propor¬
tion as its brilliancy assimulates with ours. No im¬
pure spirit can approach this holy atmosphere > repos¬
ing in this light above the head of the good and pious
man, we can read his thoughts and mind.
“ We see man as-he really is ; each ray emanating
from his brain is for us a word, often a discourse. We
reply to his thoughts, yet he remains ignorant that it is
we who answer. We excite in him unconsciously
ideas that without our influence he would never con¬
ceive, although the disposition and aptitude to receive
them are innate in his soul; the man worthy to re¬
ceive the light, becomes thus a useful and profitable
organ for the sympathetic spirit who desires to com¬
municate his knowledge to the world.
“ I have found a spirit, or rather a man, accessible to
the light, whom I can approach, and it is by his organs
I speak to you. Without his mediumship it would have
been impossible for me to communicate with you
humanly, verbally, palpably—in fact, to write to you.
Thus you receive by these means an anonymous letter
from a man you are unacquainted with, but who is
possessed with a strong love of occult and spiritual
subjects. I hover over him, even as the most divine of
all spirits reposed on the most divine of all mankind
after His baptism; I inspire him with ideas, he tran¬
scribes them beneath my influence, under my direction,
by the effect of my radiance. By a slight touch I cause
all the chords of his soul to vibrate conformably to his
Jan. 30, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
53
individuality and mine. He writes what I desire him
to write. I write through his mediumship, and
my ideas follow his. He feels happy while writing (his
ideas become more elevated, more holy, and more abun¬
dant, or he becomes more animated, more liberal, and
more rich in his ideas). It appears to him that he
breathes and moves in a clearer and more joyous atmo¬
sphere ; he moves slowly, like a blind man led by a
friendly hand; by these means you receive from me a
letter. He who writes believes himself free, and he is
so actually; he suffers no violence, no constraint; he is
free as two friends walking arm in arm guide one
another reciprocally. You ought to feel that my spirit
is in direct communication with yours; you feel what I
say, and you read my most secret thoughts. This is
enough for once. To-day is called by you the 15 ix-
1798.” Jeax Gtaspae Lavatee.
SWEDENBORG- ON COMMUNION WITH SPIRITS.
“ It is believed by many that man may be taught by the
Lord by spirits speaking with him, but those who believe and
desire this do not know that this is connected [with danger to
their souls.* As long as man lives in the world, he is in the
midst of spirits as to his spirit, and yet spirits do not know
that they are with man, nor man that he is with spirits.
The reason is because they are conjoined immediately as to
the affections of the will, but mediately as to the thoughts of
the understanding ; for man thinks naturally, but spirits
spiritually ; and natural and spiritual thought make one only
by correspondences, and when two make one by correspond¬
ences one does not know anything of the other. But as soon
as spirits begin to converse with man they come out of their
spiritual state into the natural state of man, and they know
then that they are with man, and they conjoin themselves
with the thoughts of his affection, and speak with him from
them ; they cannot enter into anything else, for a like
affection and thought flowing thence effects conjunction, and
a dissimilar one causes separation. Hence it is that the
spirit who speaks with man is in the same principles with
man, whether they are true or false; and that he excites
them, and by conjoining his own affection to that of man he
strengthens it very much. Hence it is that no other spirits
speak with man, or operate into him manifestly, except such
as are like him ; for manifest operation into man and speech
are the same thing. Hence also it is that no other than en¬
thusiastic spirits talk with enthusiasts, and that no other than
Quaker spirits operate upon Quakers, and Moravian spirits
upon Moravians ; the same would apply to Arians, Socinians,
and other heretics. There are no other spirits who talk with
man than such as were once men upon earth; and what is
singular, when a man thinks that the Holy Spirit converses
with him or operates in him, the spirit also thinks that he is
the Holy Spirit. Hence appears the great danger in which
man is when he speaks with spirits, or feels their operation
manifestly. Man does not know the nature of his affection
whether it is good or evil, nor with what other beings or per¬
sons it is conjoined; if, therefore, he is in the pride of in¬
tellect, the spirit favours all his thought which flows thence ;
likewise, if any one is full of fire in favour of certain princi¬
ples, as is the case with those who are in truths not from a
genuine affection. When a spirit thus favours the thoughts
and principles of man from a similar affection, then one leads
the other, as one blind man leads another blind man, when
both fall into the ditch. Those who had familiar spirits in
olden times were of this kind, and likewise the Magi in
Egypt and Babel, who on account of their speech with
spirits, and the operation of the spirits themselves, which
they felt manifestly, were called wise men. But by these
means the worship of God was turned into the worship of de¬
mons, and the Church perished.” (Apoe. JExpl. 1182.)
“When spirits begin to talk with men they must not be
believed ; for almost everything which they say is invented
by them, and they lie. If they were allowed to describe the
quality of heaven, and how things in heaven are constituted,
they would tell so many lies that men would be perfectly
amazed; and they would say these things with the greatest
assurance, protesting that they were true. Wherefore, when
spirits spoke, I was not allowed to place any faith in anything
which they said.”
“Spirits are extremely anxious to make up stories, and
when anything is made the topic of conversation they imagine
that they know all about it, and they all in their turn express
a different opinion about it as though they were thoroughly
conversant with the subject; and if man listens to them and
believes them they deceive and seduce him in many ways '
Wherefore let men take care lest they believe them ; for this
reason, also, it is most dangerous for men in this world to talk
with spirits, unless they are in true faith. The spirits induce
such a powerful persuasion that it is the Lord Himself who
speaks and commands, that man cannot do otherwise than
believe and obey.” (Spirit Diary, 1622.) •
“ There is nothing more common with spirits, than, when in
conversation, to say, that a thing is so or so ; for they imagine
they know everything perfectly; and they declare a thing to
be so, when yet it is not so. ... As soon as they observe some¬
thing which they do not know, they say at once that this is
so.” (1902 S. D.)
“ Sometimes it was shown to me by experience, that spirits
were induced to believe that they were those persons about
whose life and manners I was able to have some knowledge,
and from this knowledge in my mind they induced other
spirits to believe that they were these persons ; they spoke in
the same manner, had the same disposition, and many other
like things. They were endeavouring even to make me
believe that they were these persons ; but because I had
learned that other persons may be personified thus perfectly by
spirits, they could not impose upon me.’’
“Wherefore let those be careful to whom it is granted to
speak with spirits lest they believe that the spirits are those
whom they pretend to be ; for they are able to assume the
likeness of any man which they find in the memory of the
man with whom they are. That this is so may also appear
from this circumstance, because such spirits are associated
with men as are like them; and when they are with men
they do not know otherwise but that they are they.” (Spirit
Diaip, 2686, 2687.)
“These expressions about the nature of spiritism,” says
Professor Tafel, “and the danger to which those are exposed
who talk with spirits, appear very remarkable when we take
into consideration that they were written in the middle of the
last century, and that then Swedenborg had no idea of the
extent to which the custom of talking or communicating with
spirits would be carried in this world. The only true way of
being instructed in the truth is by means of the written Word
of God.” Swedenborg says concerning this :—
“ It is quite different with those who are led by the Lord,
and He leads those who love the truth and desire it from Him.
These are illustrated while reading the Word ; -for the Lord
is there, and converses with every one according to his com¬
prehension. If such persons hear the language of spirits, as
happens sometimes, they are not taught, but led, and indeed
so carefully, that man is still left to himself ; for every man
is led by the Lord by his affections, and he thinks from these
in freedom as of himself, and if this was not so he could
neither be reformed nor illustrated. But men are illustrated
differently, each one according to his affection and his intel¬
ligence thence ; those who are in the affection of spiritual
truth are raised into the light, of heaven, so that that they can
even perceive the illustration.” (Apoc. Expl. 1183.)
Me. James Wason, solicitor, of Liverpool, in a letter to
Mr. Charles Blackburn, says :—“ I am glad to say that all the
Spiritualists here that I have spoken to are satisfied as to the
truthfulness of Miss Cook, and condemn the outrageous con¬
duct of Mr. Yolckman.”
Ihspieattoeal Musical Talent.—The youthful »o of
Mr. S. T. Speer, M.D,, Master Charlton Speer, mentioned in
our last issue as being under the direct guidance of musical
spirits long since passed away, will be the “solo organist” on
the monster organ of the Albert Hall, at the concert of the
Albert Hall Amateur Orchestral Society, of which His Boyal
Highness the Duke of Edinburgh is President, and which will
be held at the Hall to-morrow, Saturday, the 31st, at eight
o’clock. He will play an “ Allegro Pomposo,” by Henry
Smart, and the great organ Prelude and Fugue in A minor, of
Sebastian Bach, a pianoforte arrangement of which, by Listz,
was recently played by Dr. Hans von Bulow at the Monday
Popular Concerts.
54
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 30,1874.
SEANCES AT MRS. MAKDOUG-ALL GREGORY’S.
Considerable public interest is felt in the medium-
ship of Miss Showers, in consequence of the interesting
particulars respecting it which Mrs. Showers has con¬
tributed to these pages.
On Friday last Miss Showers gave a seance at the re¬
sidence of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street,
Grosvenor-square, W. The guests present were Mrs.
Showers; Mr. T. Herbert Noyes, jun., M.A.; the author
of the “ Unorthodox London ” letters in the Daily Tele¬
graph ; the gentleman through whose mediumship the
“Spirit Teachings,” occasionally published in these
pages are given; Dr. Richardson, who is one of the
leaders of the Spiritual movement in Australia; and
Mr. W. H. Harrison. There was a dark seance, at
which Miss Showers was made to sing and play in the
dark by her spirits. Her voice is a mezzo-soprano, but
the spirit calling himself “ Peter ” controlled her to
sing in a clear powerful baritone voice, like a man. The'
voice of “ Florence ” was a sweet soprano. Other spirits
also controlled her while singing, the general result
being a marvellous display of vocal power, which few,
if any, professional singers could equal. The singing
was more powerful in the dark than in the light, the
control being more complete.
Last Tuesday there was a face seance in the presence
of the same guests. “ Peter ” said that he wanted his
medium to be tied up with tape, and arrangements were
made to give the seance under strict test conditions. It
was then found that there was no tape in the house, so
the experiment had to be deferred till another occasion,
but as a substitute “ Peter ” requested Mrs. Gregory
to thoroughly search his medium in another room, which
was done.
Shortly before the face of “ Florence ” came to the
aperture in the cabinet, the spirits sang the following
hymn; the solemn strains resounding through the dimly
lighted room, and the circumstances under which they
were given, made the general effect very impressive:—
Petr .—Jesus, my God, behold at length the time,
When I resolve to turn away from crime.
Oh 1 pardon me, Jesus ! Thy mercy I implore !
I will never more offend Thee ! No, nevermore!
Flor.—Since my poor soul Thy precious blood has cost,
Suffer me not for ever to be lost.
Oh! pardon me, Jesus ! Thy mercy I implore!
I will never more offend Thee! No, nevermore!
Peter,—Kneeling in tears, behold me at Thy feet;
Like Magdalen, Thy mercy I entreat.
Oh! pardon me, Jesus! Thy mercy I implore !
I will never more offend Thee! No, nevermore]
“ Florence ” then came and talked for some time. The
general conclusion was that the face bore no very strong
resemblance to that of the medium; the eyes were fixed
and somewhat staring, and did not “ blink ” at all
during the whole time that the face was visible; some¬
times it came for five or ten minutes at a time. This
rigidity of the eyelids was the most abnormal feature
noted by the observers.
The National Association.—The committee appointed
by the Council of the British National Association of
Spiritualists to draft the prospectus, met on Monday evening
last, when the several prospectuses prepared by members of
the sub-committee, appointed from the body of the committee,
were considered, and, from the valuable matter formulated,
the committee will be enabled to submit to the Council, at the
next meeting, a most comprehensive prospectus. Letters of
encouragement have been received from Judge Edmonds, Mr.
Robert Dale Owen, Mr. J. Milne, and others. The preliminary
work being near completion, it is anticipated that the Asso¬
ciation will soon be ready for public action.
A TRANCE LECTURE.
Last Sunday night, Mrs. Cora L. V. Tappan delivered a
trance sermon at the Cleveland Hall, Cleveland-street,
Portland-road, to a large and intelligent body of listeners,
among whom were Mrs. Honywood, Mr. James Wason, Mr.
Benjamin Coleman, Dr. Purdon, and a great many of the
leading friends of the spiritual movement.
Mrs. Tappan began by offering the following prayer:—■
“ Our Father, Thou Infinite Spirit, Thou light, and life, and
surpassing glory, Thou strength above all things, and Thou
soul of wonderful compassion, we praise Thee. The boundless
firmament proclaims Thy power, Thy glory ; the everlasting
stars revolve in response to Thy law and Thy breath, and the
soul of man—more mighty than worlds, more dazzling than
stars, endowed with more surpassing glory than the sun—the
soul of man worships thee, and aspires to know Thee, because
of Thy endless love, strives to know Thee because of Thy
wisdom. But Thou, that searchest the human heart, Thou
whose presence is here, even as a voice, respond. Even as a
penetrating soul, Thou canst judge of the offerings Thy chil¬
dren bring, whether they be of the spirit of purity and light,
whether they be of that perfect praise whereby the soul is
made fully in accord with Thee. But let us be strong in the
strength of meekness, let us be wise in the midst of Thy
patience and understanding, let us be filled with the breath of
Thy power and inspiration, till all life shall be embodied in
loving deeds and words, until mankind shall forget its misery
and its strife, and be uplifted to behold those angels who
evermore sing praises to Thee in words and deeds of loving
kindness. And to Thee, 0 Father, be praise for evermore. ”
Mrs. Tappan, in the trance state, said that the subject
of the discourse that evening would be the nature and efficacy
of prayer. She said that the tendency of modern thought was
towards exact science, and that one of England’s leading men
of science had recently asked that the ward of a hospital
should be set aside, and the patients in that particular ward
be prayed for, to see whether prayer had any influence over
their recovery or not. This shout of derision from the world
of science was naturally followed by one of horror from the
religious world ; but the- fact that a man should thus go
beyond his sphere, and ask the Deity to gratify one of his
petty foibles, shows what is abroad in the nineteenth century.
Whilst materialism is thus asserting that there can be no
answer to prayer, something should be done to make the real
nature of prayer understood. Materialists declare the whole
world to be inflexibly governed by law, and that man can
receive nothing unless he asks for it in accordance with
natural law, consequently that the sentence in the Lord’s
Prayer, asking for bread, is superfluous, because if a man
wishes for bread, he must plough, and sow, and reap, before
the bread can be forthcoming. If he wishes for political
power or for success in battle, he must work for them, and
adopt means to attain the end ; and everybody knew that
praying was not much in accordance with military ethics, or
much relied upon by the leaders of armies. Such extreme
ideas on both sides as to the nature of prayer were, probably,
mistakes. Material things should be prayed for in material
ways. Men had eyes, hands, and feet, and should use them if
they wanted material blessings; they should sow the seed in
full confidence that time and the laws which God had made,
would bring them the harvest. But the materialist applies
his methods to spiritual things, in doing which he makes a
mistake ; he forgets that there may be laws which transcend
those of physical nature, but whereby the spiritual nature is
sustained and fed. God may have methods that science does
not understand. Professor Tyndall, before challenging the
Almighty to perform an experiment to please him, ought to
place himself in a condition to learn what prayer is. The
man of science bends his knee to nature, and searches her
realms with reverence, but when he comes to the vestibule of
the spirit, without reverence and without awe, he tears
down the veil of spirituality, and says there is nothing
there, but that reason alone will suffice. Other quali¬
ties of the mind have to be developed before man can
understand the things of the spirit. The eye of man alone
was nob sufficient to discover many of the stars, which have
been brought to his knowledge only by means of the telescope,
and may it not be true that man’s spiritual nature may be
limited also, and needs a telescope to learn more of the things
of the spirit. Religion, with her snowy brow and with her
loving voice, has spoken in many tongues, in every age, in
every land, and found herresponsiveechoin the human heart.
It is true that although God answers prayer, He must do so in
accordance with law, but at that point the man of science
Jan. 30, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
55
must stop, for the Almighty does not necessarily answer
prayer in accordance with material laws, and those who have
no souls, or think they have none, cannot be within the range
of the comprehension of these things, any more than a blind
man can see the sun. There may be thousands of channels of
which the materialist knows nothing, whereby the Infinite
works out His purposes. “ Prayer is the soul’s sincere desire,”
says "Dr. Watts, but there are desires which are not of the
soul, and may not be the legitimate subject of prayer. Prayer
should deal only with that which comes within the range of
spiritual requireqjents. Prayer cannot transcend natural
laws, says the materialist. But what are natural laws ? Who
has pointed out the boundaries of infinity ? To limit the
laws of the Deity is to bind infinity. Mrs. Tappan then went
on to say that prayer was efficacious also in proportion to its
intensity, just as sound could be heard at a greater distance
when it was more intense, and that as the union of two or
three voices would intensify sound, so praying in unison
would produce more powerful effects. Moreover, if several
persons agreed about one request, it was likely to be less sel¬
fish, and would more probably come within the true range of
spiritual powers to answer. The union of the several minds
would form a spiritual atmosphere, and when its waves vi¬
brated they might reach the centre of the soul itself.* The
man intent upon material things passes through the field of
nature without seeing any beauty in the flowers, and without
recognising the fragrance of the breezes ; their glory was lost
to him. There was, in truth, a realm of spirit which might
be entered by prayer ; but the upper chambers of the mind,
the spiritual part of the soul’s temple, could only be entered
by desire. Men could not be forced upwards. No messenger
would take them unwillingly into the realms of life and light.
She closed by saying that the laws which control spirit were
as perfect and inflexible as those which govern matter, and
she exhorted her hearers to cultivate their spiritual faculties.
SPIRITUALISM IN AUSTRALIA.
The Rev. John Tyerman delivered the third of his course
of lectures on the question, “ "What does Spiritualism
teach ? ” in the Polytechnic Hall, Bourke-street, Melbourne,
on Sunday evening. The question often arose, “ What is the
standard of Spiritualistic teaching—on what authority does
it rest ? ” He replied they had no absolute and final standard
on all questions, and could not possibly have in this imperfect
and progressive world. Only on questions capable of positive
demonstration—and they were comparatively few—could a
final standard be erected. Those who dogmatically affirmed
that a complete and final revelation of truth and religion was
found in any particular book, and entrusted to the custody of
any particular church, displayed marvellous presumption, and
but little knowledge of the progressive development of truth,
which was God’s method of revealing His will to mankind.
Spiritualistic teachings rested on a fourfold basis. First, on
carefully observed and well-attested facts. These proved the
doctrine of communion with disembodied spirits. Secondly,
on science. Science was the high priest and interpreter of
nature. Its discoveries confirmed their position in regard to
the uniformity and immutability of nature’s operations, and
the consequent non-interposition of a special providence.
Spiritualism hailed every new scientific revelation with
delight, and did not tremble at every fresh announcement as
orthodoxy did, lest it should clash with some cherished
dogma, or disprove some favourite passage of Scripture, as
had already been done in several instances. Thirdly, on
reason. Reason was not infallible, but it was the highest
authority, the safest guide God had given man. Those who
so persistently decried reason as carnal in its nature and un¬
reliable in its deductions, were strangely inconsistent; for it
was only by the exercise of the reason they condemned that
they arrived at their conclusions ; and every attempted ex¬
planation of their Bible, and enforcement of their religion,
was but an exercise of the same despised reason. Spiritualism
tried every dogma at the bar of enlightened reason: if it
stood the test it was received as true ; if not, it was rejected
as false. Fourthly, on the moral sentiments of our nature.
Reason was not sufficient of itself. If the premises from
which it argued were false, its conclusions might be quite
logical and consistent, and yet most false and mischievous.
Calvin’s views on certain dogmas were instanced as an illus¬
tration. Spiritualism tried every alleged truth by man’s
higher nature. Was a doctrine humane in its spirit? was it
* Mrs. Tappan sometimes tries to explain spiritual things physically.
"What is the wave-length of the alleged prayer vibrations f—Ed.
beneficial in its tendency ? was it worthy of a God of infinite
and unchanging love 1 If not, no matter what the authority
on which it rested might be, whether Church or Bible, it was
spurned as a pernicious error. Such doctrines as those of the
fall, the atonement by innocent blood, a personal devil, and
eternal punishment, would not bear the test of man’s lofty
moral sentiment, when not warped and beclouded by man¬
made creeds. Returning to the latter part of the last propo¬
sition discussed a week ago, which involved the doctrine of
spirit communion, the lecturer contended that it was in the
very nature of things in the highest degree probable. Would
God prohibit it unless it was likely to injure either the spirits
themselves, or mortals on earth ? But both could not fail to
be greatly benefitted, rather than injured, by it. It then
became a question of fact whether the departed did or did not
return to earth, and communicate with those still in the body.
He maintained that the testimony in favour of the proposition
was overwhelming. If spirit intercourse was not proved,
nothing could be proved by testimony. Mr. Tyerman then
dealt at length with the following propositions :—First, that
individual human reason is the final arbiter on all questions
of speculative truth, and individual conscience on all matters of
religious and moral duty. Catholics put forth their Bible and
their Church as the only competent arbiters on these subjects.
But so-called infallible Popes had too often proved their falli¬
bility to be trusted by intelligent men. Protestants set up the
Bible as the final and only reliable standard of truth and duty;
but in point of fact each Protestant sect had its own interpreta¬
tion of that book, which of course was correct, and all others
erroneous. But who should decide, amid this conflict of
interpretations, which was right ? Let each man judge for
himself ; for after all, that was what the leaders of the dif¬
ferent Protestant sects did. Secondly, that eternal progression,
and consequent ever-increasing knowledge and happiness, is
the natural and inevitable destiny of every member of the
human family. Under that proposition, it was shown that
man was capable of never-ending progression, that no other
view of his destiny was worthy of his Creator; and that this
destiny was an inevitable one, arising out of the natural con¬
stitution of things, and, therefore, was not a something lost
by the fall of fabled Adam, and purchased for a select few by
Jesus Christ. That proposition demolished that most bar¬
barous and blasphemous of doctrines—the doctrine of eternal
punishment. An animated discussion followed the lecture,
which appeared to be greatly enjoyed by a large and intelligent
audience.—The Progressive Spiritualist, Melbourne, Nov. 8th,
1873.
“FIYE WEEKS IN A TRANCE.”
Undek the above title we recently quoted an inte¬
resting article from The Religio-Philosophical Journal
(Chicago), and now give some further particulars ex¬
tracted from that journal of January 17th last:—
In No. 16 of the Journal, we published an article
clipped from the Rochester Democrat and Chronicle,
giving an account of a wonderful phenomenon, relating
to Miss Eleanor Bonney, who had, several months ago,
repeatedly announced to her friends, that she was, at
some time not far distant, to go into a long and peculiar
trance, the result of which would he the revelation of
some startling facts—facts that would convince the
sceptical world of the truths of Spiritualism. Her pre¬
dictions were treated with a great deal of levity by
many of her friends and relatives, being considered the
result of hallucination, but the sequel shows that her
prophecies thus far have been literally verified. She
seemed to entertain the extraordinary opinion, that it
was her peculiar mission, to prove that a person could,
to all appearance absolutely die, the soul be completely
separated from its earthly tenement, and the first
stages of decomposition even set in, and then, through
the potent agency of spirits, be restored to life again.
There are a few things exceedingly curious connected
with this remarkable case. Many entertain the idea
that she had taken poison, from the fact that she pre¬
dicted the hour at which she-was to “ go out,” as she
56
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 30, 1874.
termed it, at two o’clock in the morning, and lying
down upon the bed finished the directions she wished
to give. No one was to be allowed to watch over her
hut Mr. and Mrs. Preston, Mr. and Mrs. Ryan and
Mrs. Dutton'. The attendants positively assert that
many of the predictions she made have been fully real¬
ised, and they entertain a firm conviction that resusci¬
tation will eventually follow.
The fact that she was a very large woman, weighing
208 pounds, perfectly healthy and gushing with
vitality, may have made her a desirable subject for
scientific spirits to experiment upon, and who may, in
this instance fail in accomplishing what they desire,
the same as the denizens of earth often do in many of
their undertakings.
The statement of the Democrat and Chronicle, that
although five weeks had passed, there was no more un¬
pleasant odour than would naturally proceed from a sick
room, certainly is strange, and indicates that something
quite unknown to men of science is at work in prevent¬
ing decomposition. Since then, however, “ There has
been no sign of resuscitation, but an examination of the
coroner shows that the remains are far gone in decom¬
position.” The statement is made that the body re¬
mains at the temperature of the surrounding atmos¬
phere, and presents the same appearance that would
naturally have been expected by the sceptical. The
coroner did not think there was sufficient evidence of
an unnatural death to warrant a dissection of the body.
According to the Albany Evening Journal, coroner
Bissell, of Geneseo, accompanied by Dr. Lauderdale and
Sheriff Arnold had been to Avon to 'investigate the case
of Miss Bonney. They met with no resistance in gain¬
ing an entrance and making a full examination of the
“corpse,” as they pronounce it to be. They found no
appearance of violent death or other circumstances
which would warrant them in taking the body in
charge, and say that the body is so far decomposed
as to render dissection useless in reaching the cause of
her death. Externally, it presents a full and plump
appearance and dark yellow colour, is of the same tem¬
perature as the room, and does not differ from the appear¬
ance of any body which had been kept the same length
of time. In conclusion, the Albany Evening Journal
says, “ Thus it appears that Miss Bonney actually per¬
petrated a very severe joke upon herself. A large por¬
tion of the community will for ever believe that she
took poison. If she did not, she-worked her mind into
such a condition of excitement that death resulted there¬
from. To most people the latter theory will seem
highly improbable, if, as has been stated, the deceased was
at the time in a state of perfect physical health. It is
to be regretted that the coroner did not do his duty
promptly, and by a thorough investigation, ascertain
whether the girl was poisoned or not.
“ The examination of this late day reveals the fact
that the remains have been steadily undergoing the
process of decay, and are now but a putrid mass,
emitting a fearful stench. This should be enough to
satisfy the most ardent Spiritualist that the body can
•.never return to life. Still the family refuse to be con-
v inced, and announce their purpose to keep the remains
mnburied for six months.”
That Miss Bonney is absolutely dead, no one who
visits her doubts. Yet that, even, was strictly in
accordance with her prediction, for she had positively
stated, that “when the soul had entirely separated
from the body the house would be shaken violently,”
which prediction was fully realised by those in attend¬
ance. The Rochester Union and Advertiser says, “ A
physician from this city—not a believer in Spiritualism
—visited Avon yesterday, and made an examination of
the body, as he had done before. He was not allowed
to touch the body, but merely to look at it, as it was
one of the conditions of the going out, that no hand
should be brought in contact with it. This condition
has been conscientiously lived up to by her attendants.
The physician states that, in his opinion, the woman is
positively dead, and it is an utter impossibility for life
to be brought back into the body.
“ Since his last examination, about a week ago,
no material change seemed to have taken place in the
appearance of the corpse. He noticed, however, a
slight ring about the eyes, which was a little lighter in
colour than the rest of the body. This he accounts for
by saying that it is a perfectly natural result of
the sinking of the eyes. They at first and for some
time protruded slightly from the head, such as it was
predicted, would take place, but have now sunk some¬
what, which gives that appearance about the eyes so
often seen in a corpse.
“ As regards the odour in the room, the doctor says he
thought he detected, on his visit yesterday, a different
scent from that which he found on his first one. This,
however, he did not think arose from any decomposi¬
tion, as in his opinion, that had not yet set in. Many
reports have been circulated in regard to the time it
was said Miss Bonney predicted she would remain in
that state, but her friends state that she did not give
the exact time when she* expected to come back to life,
but said that they should keep her six months, not
burying her unless decomposition should set in. When
the soul re-entered the body, she said they should hear
a sound like the booming of a cannon.
“ One thing is stated by-the doctor, which, if true, is
certainly remarkable, About four weeks ago, when he
was about to go up to Avon, he bought a bouquet of
very choice, handsome flowers at Tick’s store on State-
street. That bouquet he took with him to Avon, and
it was placed in the room where the body of Miss
Bonney was lying. The flowers are to this day as fresh
and as fragrant apparently as when they were purchased.”
The whole incident is indeed curious, and is exciting
great interest. Those flowers that do not seem to
perish, the fact that Miss Bonney went into a .trance
precisely at two o’clock, surrounded by her friends, and
that her tongue has. protruded from her mouth, and a
slight effusion of blood been perceptible on her nostrils,
as predicted, must certainly awaken within the minds
of her relatives and friends an earnest desire to
scrupulously follow her directions, and the circumstance
(also foretold), that when her soul had been finally se¬
parated from the body, that the house would be shaken
violently, must, of course, arouse within each one an¬
ticipations of favourable results, however incredulous a
person may be, and her brother and others strong in
the faith, declare that she will yet come to life again as
perfect as before.
We entertain the opinion that “ nothing is impos¬
sible with God; ” that is, that anything not beyond the
limitations of reason can be performed or accomplished
by the power of mind. We believe that the resuscita¬
tion of Miss Bonney is possible but very improbable. A
partial decomposition of the body would not seriously
interfere therewith, if the nerve centres remained in a
perfect state of preservation.
Jan. 30, 1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
57
THE MINISTRY OP ANGELS.
(From the Churchman's Monthly Penny Magazine?)
‘ ‘Are they not'all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for them who
shall be heirs of salvation ?”—Heb. i. 14.
Can it—can it be,
That the celestial spirits throng this sphere
And. hover o’er and round us, ever near,
Though we no form may see ?
And am I now surrounded by a band
Of those who minister at God’s right hand ?
And do these sinless hosts
Encamp about our coasts *
And through our valleys walk, and on our mountains stand ?
And can it be, indeed,
That those pure beings hear each word I say,
And note my every action, day by day ?—
Perchance my thoughts too read;
Grieving (if grief can touch angelic breasts)
Whene’er I disobey my God’s behests;
Rejoicing when my soul
Pants for the heavenly goal,
And battling with the foe who oft its course arrests ?
Yes! ’tis no idle theme,
No speculation of a mind diseased,
No wild conceit by some enthusiast seized,
No poet’s baseless dream;
Then let not scoffers ridicule nor sneer,
Nor let philosophers their smile of pity wear,
Nor Christians deem it vain,
The thought to entertain,
That angels lead us on, that spirits guard our rear.
At God’s command they fly;
They leave tneir diamond thrones, their sapphire bowers,
Cerulean fields, and never-fading flowers;
They cleave the azure sky,
And with the swiftness of the morning ray,
The first glad messenger of welcome day,
To this sad sinful world,
Where Satan hath unfurl’d
His rebel standard black, they wing their serial way.
And when convulsive throes
Shake the frail tenement that holds the soul,
And snap the silver cords, and break the golden bowl,—
When life draws near its close,
The eye of faith discerns ’mid gathering shades,
And more distinct as earth’s fond vision fades,
The white-robed seraphs nigh,
To bear the soul on high.
To that celestial home, which death no more invades.
J. F.
(ftflmgpmttience.
[Great freedom is given to correspondents, who sometimes express opinions
diametrically opposed to those of this journal and its readers.]
THE OUTRAGE AT A SPIRIT CIRCLE.
Sir,—1 have just read in the Medium, Mr. Yolckman’s first
instalment of what he calls “ his. ghost experiences,” and in
which he sets forth his version of the scene which took place
at Mr. Luxmoore’s house last December.
Although I am a Spiritualist, I am bound to confess that
my faith in the authenticity of this particular manifestation
has been somewhat shaken by the events which then occurred..
It is natural that this should be so, but as Spiritualists we have
seen enough of wonders to induce us for the present to sus¬
pend our judgment.
The phase of mediumship supposed to be possessed by Miss
Cook is comparatively new among us, and although tbe ap¬
pearance of John King and other spirits are pointing in the
same direction, they differ widely, inasmuch as they^have as
yet no power to materialise their forms to the extent assumed
to have been attained by “ Katie.”
I have not the pleasure of knowing Miss Cook, nor have I
been at any of her seances—\i these lines should meet her eye,
I trust she will accept them as the mere expression of a natural
doubt, and as not intended in any way to assume the smallest
culpability on her part. . /
Whilst acknowledging that we live in the midst of wonders,
which, scouted as incredible at first become at last to be as
familiar to us as the sunset, we are none the less bound to use
an ever increasing vigilance to see that our appetite for the
marvellous does not lead us to swallow all spiritual food that
is offered to us without due examination as to whether it is
wholesome.
Now, in this case we have certain manifestations occurring
which are vouched for as facts by numerous persons of un¬
* Psalm xxxiv.' 7. .
blemished character and reputation, whose evidence it would
seem impossible to gainsay. Circumstances arise, however,
which tend to impeach the correctness of these facts—and as
it is impossible to doubt the bona fides of those who have
vouched for them—let us consider whether it is not possible
that they may have been deceived.
The whole question in my mind resolves itself into this.
Have Miss Cook’s friends ascertained by the evidence of their
eyesight that she is actually inside the cabinet during the
time that Katie is manifesting outside ? Nothing short of
this should satisfy them, for if this test is unattainable, end¬
less doubt and suspicion must be raised by the marvellous
resemblance that is reputed to exist between Katie and the
medium.
The answer to this objection will doubtless be that measures
are taken which preclude the possibility of Miss Cook so much
as rising from her chair, but we must bear in mind that mere
fastening with tape, however well it may be done, and how¬
ever securely the knots may be sealed, is no practical safe¬
guard. We know by experience that a powerful physical
medium can well laugh at such clumsy expedients, and could
be free by spiritual aid, almost ere the curtain of the cabinet
was drawn.
We know also that the clothes of such a medium can be
removed in an instant of time, and on this hypothesis, and
without imputing the least intentional disloyalty to Miss
Cook, she herself thus freed from her bonds and somewhat dis¬
guised as regards her clothing by the spirits who control her,
may be walking about in trance state among her friends
ignorant as an innocent child (as indeed I believe her to be) of
the trick which spirits are playing us through her means.
To tell us that the figure is occasionally seen to be taller
than the medium, conveys to my mind no conviction—for we
all know that the bodies of powerful mediums can be and are
frequently elongated.
When a gentleman of such position and character as Mr.
Luxmoore tells me that he has with his own eyes seen Miss
Cook and Katie bearing separate and distinct individualites,
at the same. instant of time, then I will accept as fact the
truth of this manifestation, but until then I must be pardoned
for saying, 0 It may well be true, but it is not yet proved to
be so.”
But let not Mr. Yolckman think that he has done any service
to Spiritualism, or to the cause of truth, by the conduct he
has thought fit to pursue. I do not think that had he
succeeded in proving Miss Cook to be an impostor (which he
has not) he would have received the thanks or commendation
of one right thinking man. He was perfectly at liberty to
have denounced the manifestation as an imposition, if such
had been the result of his observations, but to take the course
he did was both ill-bred and ungentlemanlike.
My friend asks me to dinner, and gives me a bad one; I
have doubtless a right afterwards to express my opinion on
the subject, but to jump up from the table, and by my con¬
duct to create dismay, confusion, and distress among the
guests, is a very different matter, and the consequence would
very justly be my exclusion from all such social meetings in
future.
To attempt to justify my behaviour on the grounds of the
insufficiency or bad quality of the food, would be considered
an aggravation of the offence.
Mr. Yolckman has, however, yet more grievously offended
against the unwritten law of the society in which he claims to
move. To obtain admission to this seance, he deliberately
pledged his word to conform to certain arrangements and
stipulations. Nothing that then occurred could release him
from that pledge, and nothing that he can now say will re¬
move from him the stigma of having violated it. M. R. S.
January 19th, 1874.
Sir,—I enclose a copy of a letter I have sent to the editor
of the Medium, and request you will kindly also publish it, as
I find that Mr. Burns cannot be relied on to print statements
or opinions which do not “ answer his purpose.” Iota.
Jan. 20th, 1874.
To the Editor of “ The Medium."
Sir,—In your remarks on “ Grasping a Spirit ” last week,
you say well, “ Allegiance to truth is the first duty of the
investigator of Spiritualism ” (you might have added, “ or of
any one else”), and I presume that in saying that “any
man has a right to take such steps as he conceives to be
necessary to expose what he believes to be* imposition, you
The italics are mine.—Iota.
58
THE SPIRITUALIST.
mean this latter sentiment to be taken with the grain of salt
contained in the former, viz., subject to the “ allegiance to
truth.” (It is broad enough even then.)
Mr. Volckman, however, in his defence, reverses this
wholesome order, and pleads that a man is justified in break¬
ing his voluntarily given word of honour when the object is
to expose what he believes to be imposition. In other words,
that the end justifies the means. In all consistency then, sir,
let us at once float all our mediums in deep water, with their
thumbs tied together, for there is not one of them whom some
one does not “ believe to be" an impostor.
There are two perfectly distinct questions involved in this
matter, each of which should, I submit, be first judged inde¬
pendently, and on its own merits—viz.:—
1. The genuineness or otherwise of the materialised spirit,
Katie, as per Miss Cook ; and
2. The morality of Mr. Yolckman’s proceeding.
As regards the former—whether or no Mr. Yolckman has
done anything towards establishing his point, is a question
which each one who reads his account must decide for himself;
but as regards the latter, what of Mr. Yolckman and his
truth ? I have said advisedly that he broke his “ voluntarily
given word,” for if he objected to the conditions (which he
knew beforehand, as this was not his first visit to my know¬
ledge), he ought, as a man of “ truth,” to have said so before
the seance began. He himself, indeed, distinctly admits that
he did “ break the conditions,” in the only sense in which it
is possible to understand that expression. But 'hz justifies it.
To come to the bearing of this second point on the first.
How can we accept the testimony of a man who so lightly
esteems his own word of honour ?
It seems worthy of note that he has not yet denied that he
acted at the instigation of others, though he says no one had
any knowledge of his invitation to or presence at this par¬
ticular seance.
He sneers at Lord Caithness. His lordship merely did what
every gentleman, man or boy, would have done in his place.
25, James-street, Buckingham-gate, S.W. Iota.
, January 20th, 1874.
To the Editor of “ The Spiritualist."
Sir,—As I anticipated, the editor of the Medium has sup¬
pressed my letter, and, as I also foresaw, he has, nevertheless,
as his custom is, used it as an invisible peg whereon to hang
some comments of his own. Yet he lauds his own neutrality
in “ permitting the other side to speak,” and indeed, asserts
that he has no doubt of the genuineness of Miss Cook's medium-
ship. It is, in fact, clear enough that she is not his quarry.
He flies at higher game, and makes his expressions of faith in
her serve as a cloak to conceal his real object, which, however,
evidently is to throw dirt at the person he designates as
the ‘‘ great unpaid.” Mr. Oxley’s letter did not interfere
with this object,—mine did. The one is therefore inserted,
the other suppressed.
The editor hints that he could “suggest a higher code of
morals for the spirit circle than ” one founded on “ honour.”
He does not state what it is, but that is quite plain from the
general drift of his observations. He maintains, with Mr.
Yolckman, that if the spirit were no spirit, M. Yolckman
was justified in breaking his word of honour. In the first
place, there is not much virtue in this “ if.” It is just as
possible that Mr. Volckman may be mistaken in his belief, if
he holds it, that what he grasped was Miss Cook ; and if he
be so, what becomes of his justification? He has thrown his
honour to the winds for nothing 1 In the second place, if he
had even known that the “figure” was that of ,the medium, it
would not have justified him in breaking his volv/ntarily
given word. He and the editor think otherwise. “ The
New Code op Morals ” is that it is lawful to do evil that
good may come ; that when a man has an object in view
which he himself deems righteous, he is bound to use any
means, moral or immoral, to attain it. It must be confessed
that the editor acts nobly up to his creed. He sees a chance of
a fling at some one against whom he has a spite (of course he
thinks it righteous to take advantage of it), so he adopts Mr.
Volckman, whom he professes to think mistaken ; suppresses
the letters which tell against him; and invents a new code of
morals to justify him. IOTA.
MESMERIC experiments.
Sir,—Some years back I went to see some experiments in
mesmerism ; it was not in England and not in Buddha land,
although what occurred may denote in small what is said to
occur extensively in Tartary.
Jan. 30, 1874.
There were two subjects in great contrast, one a highly
clairvoyant person, the other, when mesmerised, went into a
state of rigidity like one dead. While in this state, the ex¬
perimenter ran a large pin, eight or nine inches long, right
through the flesh of the subject’s arm ; it did not flinch any
more than if the body had been dead. This was done several
times, and I had the privilege, on one occasion, of extricating
the pin from the flesh, and I pulled it out with some difficulty,
for it was well in, and protfhded from the contrary end to
that in which it was inserted. No blood flowed, and when the
pin was out, there was little or no trace of where the pin had
been inserted. Where had the feeling gone ? It was evi¬
dently, during the time of the body’s rigidity, not in the body,
but I suppose it was somewhere.
Some of M. Kardec’s comments on the conditions of the
perisprit may throw light on this and other kindred subjects.
He says : “ This second envelope of the soul or the perisprit
exists then during our corporeal life, it is the intermediary for
all the sensations that the spirit experiences, the means by
which the spirit transmits its will to the exterior and acts upon
the organs. To make use of a comparison of material origin,
it is the electric wire conductor which serves for the reception
and transmission of the thoughts ; it is, in short, that mys¬
terious, inexplicable agent, which we call the nervous fluid,
and which plays so important a part in the human economy, but
of which we take, but too little account in physiological and
pathological questions. In medicine, those students who con¬
fine themselves to the material, ponderable elements only, are
deprived of an incessant source of action which would guide
them in the appreciation of facts. A knowledge of the peri¬
sprit is the key to a throng of problems until now unex¬
plained.”
M. Kardec also says, that although, in its normal state, the
perisprit or semi-material envelope of the spirit is in the form
of the man, it can nevertheless assume any other form it
pleases, and is expansive or compressible to any degree ; and,
be it again remarked, this perisprit we have with us here, and
when we die we carry it away with us, leaving only our gross
mind. W. K. T.
[There are certain parts of the body into which a pin may be driven
without causing much pain; to illustrate this, Sir John Lubbock, Bart.,
M.P., once hammered a pin up to its head into his leg, at a Royal Institution
lecture on “ Savages ” delivered_by him.—Ed.]
SPIRITUALISM AND SCIENCE.
Sir,—I have lately read with great care and with much de¬
light, the very able article in the current number of the
Quarterly Journal of Science, on “ Phenomena called
Spiritual,” by the editor, Mr. William Crookes. Although
not an acknowledged Spiritualist himself, I think that
Mr. Crookes has proved beyond the shadow of a doubt, not
only phenomena of a very remarkable character occurring at
his own house, under the most severe tests in the light, but
further, that he has also given the best proofs we have yet had
from him, that the only theory that will explain all the various
phenomena daily taking place in all parts of the habitable world,
is the spiritual theory—that they are produced by the agency
of “ disembodied spirits. ” I wish to draw special attention
to the following passage in Mr. Crookes’s article. He says,
speaking on the subject of Intelligence, the intelligence is
sometimes of such a character as to lead to the belief that it
does not emanate from any person present. Again he says,
B Without wishing at present to speak positively on this
point, I may say that the will and intelligence of the medium
have much to do with the phenomena. £ have observed some
circumstances which seem conclusively to point to the agency
of an outside intelligence, not belonging to any human being in
the room." Now I claim that although the investigation of
Spiritualism is without doubt a matter for individual proof,
yet testimony like the above, coming as it does from such a
careful observer as Mr. Crookes, is deserving of our highest
respect and attention. For surely such candid admissions
come very near to the threshold of Spiritualism. That the
mind both of the medium and the sitters do in some way, not
yet clearly understood, assist, or retard the phenomena, is a
fact, and therefore cannot be denied. As for instance,
it is well known that (except in those comparatively
rare cases where we have highly developed mediums such as
Mr. Home and others present), in an inharmonious circle little
or nothing occurs. So far as that is concerned Mr. Serjeant
Cox’s psychic force theory is not without its value. But ad¬
mitting all this, I myself have seen, heard, and felt in my
ghost experiences that which neither psychic force, muscular
cerebration, or any of the pet theories of our opponents can
Jan. 30,1874.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
59
possibly explain. Indeed, this is almost proved by the words
of Mr. Oox as quoted by Mr. Crookes, where he says, ‘ ‘ But I
and all who adopt this theory of psychic force as being the
agent through which the phenomena are produced, do not
thereby intend to assert that this psychic force may not be
sometimes seized and directed by some other intelligence than
that of the psychic''
I see that in the present number of the Spiritualist you
have reprinted an article on Mr. Crookes’ experiment ap¬
pearing in the Daily Telegraph, in which the sapient editor
or writer, whoever he may be, professes to have doubts as to
whether he (Mr. Crookes) may not be deceiving himself.
Mr. Crookes has not given us names and dates, the writer
complains. Truly, the conversion of the writer would indeed
be valuable 1
I have also read the article appearing in that ably con¬
ducted magazine, the Fortnightly Review, from the pen of
Lord Amberley. His lordship sneers at the whole thing.
Placed by the side of the patient researches of Mr. Crookes, it
sinks into utter insignificance. By his own showing he has
proved himself unworthy of respect, for a man who could play
such tricks upon his friends, by purposely tilting a table, had
better refrain from writing any more so-called criticisms on
Spiritualism. They are, as Dr, Sexton says, not worth a snap
of the finger. John Watson.
3, Windsor-place, St. Yincent-street, Ladywood,
Birmingham, January 25th, 1874.
“A PEIOEI ” OBJECTIONS TO SPIEITOALISM.
Sie,—A false argument may be more obstructive to the
advancement of knowledge than a false fact. Such reasoning,
therefore, as the following, ought not to pass unchallenged :—
“ There is a line between phenomena contrary to our ex¬
perience, and phenomena beyond it, though the line may not
be always easy to discover1.” *
Clearly “a phenomenon contrary to our experience,” is a
confusion of terms. Experience is the aggregate of observed
phenomena, and, as Hume has shown, it can neither prove nor
disprove anything beyond the facts it takes cognizance of.
An alleged phenomenon may be contrary to a supposed
law, but as every supposed law is a generalisation from
experience, and not experience itself, this is evidently a dis¬
tinct proposition from the one quoted. We are constantly
adding to our experience facts previously outside and beyond
it, and such new facts often contravene or appear to con¬
travene former generalisations (called known laws), but they
cannot be contrary to former experience.
These remarks are intended to point out to objectors that
all a priori reasoning against the “ phenomena called spiritual ”
is unphilosophical, and must be futile. What the opponents
of “ Spiritualism ” have to do is to explain its facts or to deny
them. An inductive science is not in the nature of things to
be demolished by an a priori argument. G. T. Geeen.
Penalt, near Monmouth.
THE OUTRAGE AT A SPIRIT CIRCLE.
Me. Yolckman, who committed the outrage at Mr.
Cook’s circle at Hackney, has published long letters in
the Medium, attempting not only to justify his own
conduct, but abusing several persons well known and
respected by Spiritualists. His utterances answer them¬
selves, and need no reply, for no right-minded person
can respect the tone of jocularity he assumed in making
serious charges against private individuals.
Miss Cook’s mediumship has been well tested for a
long time by gentlemen of high intellectual culture,
legal acumen, and scientific knowledge. The spirit
faces have appeared at the cabinet window when she
has been bound and sealed in her chair, with a lock of
her hair passed through the door, and fastened so as to
be in sight of the observers all through the seances.
She has been searched by ladies over and over again,
and has given seances in private houses, in cabinets ex¬
temporised for the occasion. At Mr. Luxmoore’s house,
16, Gloucester-square, Hyde-park, W., the cabinet,
which Miss Cook and her friends did not enter before
* “ Experiences in Spiritualism,’’ in The Fortnightly Review, Jan. 4,1871.
the seance began, consisted of a private room, to which
entrance by the other door or the window was prevented
by soldered metallic fastenings and other means. It was
searched by Mr. Crookes, Prince Wittgenstein, and others
to see that there was no white drapery in it, and Miss
Cook was searched by Mrs. Honywood, Mrs. Crookes,
Mrs. Tappan, and others, before she entered this
cabinet, in which she was bound, and sealed with signet
rings. Katie, of course, came out as usual in flowing
white robes. In fact, Miss Cook has given more good test
face and form manifestations than any other medium in
London, all publicly attested by good witnesses.
Moreover, as time goes on, these manifestations will
develops in all directions, and will without question
cause Mr. Yolckman’s act to be regarded as it deserves
in the light of history. Did we desire to begin a war of
words, Mr. Yolckinan’s writings give excellent open¬
ings for attack, but it is preferable to leave him to his
own conscience, and his own thoughts. He has no
power to make reparation for the wrong he has done,
even should he desire to do so. His conduct is univer¬
sally condemned among Spiritualists, and has awakened
not a little sympathy for Miss Cook.
As regards Mr. Burns, who justifies Mr. Yolckman for
breaking his word of honour, and who has made the in¬
tegrity of a truthful and upright medium a matter of
newspaper debate, probably his “ new code of morals”
on this matter is the same which induced him, after
publishing deliberate untruths about the British National
Association of Spiritualists, to refuse to correct them
when his attention was officially called in writing, by
the Council, to their falsehood. The untruths have
therefore been wilfully allowed to sink uncontra¬
dicted into the minds of his unfortunate readers.
The testimony about Miss Cook’s seances, published
by most of the leaders of the Spiritual movement in
England, has no weight with Mr. Yolckman ; he came
to the conclusion that he knew more about the matter
than they, after his forty minutes’ experience. But
Mr. Yolckman’s intimate friend, Mr. Guppy, has been
present at one only of Miss Cook’s seances; he was de¬
lighted, and proposed to the Qompany that a written
account of it should be drawn up and signed on the
spot. Unfortunately Mrs. Guppy has never been at
one of Miss Cook’s seances, but the following testimony
of his own friend will probably interest Mr. Yolckman.
It is quoted from The Spiritualist ol Dec. 15th, 1872.
“ At the close of the seance the following account of it was
drawn up, Mr. Guppy dictating the first two or three sentences,
and Mr. Henderson most of the others ; but the strict accuracy
of every sentence was considered and passed unanimously
before it was written, and the measurements given in the
document are exact, as they were made on the spot with a
measuring tape:—
“ We, the undersigned, had the pleasure of being present at a
spiritual seance at Mr. Henry Cook’s, Hackney, on Wednesday
evening, December 4th, 1872. Miss Cook, after entering the
cabinet, was tied, by some power, at the wrists, round the
neck, and round the waist to the back of her chair, with
thread. After the examination and sealing of every percep¬
tible knot, by Mr. Henderson, he, at his own suggestion, and
with the assent of the medium, tied a thread round the side
cross-bar and round the front left leg of the chair; the thread
was then brought under the door to the outside of the cabinet,
and fastened to the carpet by a common pin, in a good light.
Thus the thread could have no play up and down the leg of
the chair, consequently the chair could not be moved more
than two inches without breaking away from the pin which
held the thread outside. The other thread was knotted close
to each of the wrists of the medium, and sealed, so that the
hands could not be passed through the loop round each wrist.
The doors were shut, and soon afterwards a small hand,
followed by a large one, appeared; next came a face calling
60
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 30, 1874.
itself * Katie, the spirit,’ in full gaslight; she was clearly seen
by all present, she much resembled the medium in appearance,
and was surrounded with white drapery. The beautiful
white face then went away, and in three or four minutes the
same features reappeared, nearly black all over; the
“ whites ” of the eyes Were also nearly black, the pupils being
blacker still. It was a living face, and talked to us all in full
light. This dark face went away, and in less than three
minutes, most likely two minutes, the white face, perfect as
before, reappeared, and talked to us. She threw out two
oranges, one to Mr. Guppy, and the other to Mr. Henderson.
Then there was a breakage in the seance, and at the second
sitting Katie appeared as before. The thread was so close
round the wrists of the medium, as to cut into the flesh, so
that the knots on each arm could not be sealed without
burning her. One of the knots near the waist was tied with
thread by Mr. Henderson. A piece of thread was tied by Mr.
Henderson to three or four parts of the thread about the
medium, and the end of this second thread was passed under
the bottom of the door, and held all through the seance by Mr.
Henderson. He proposed the test, and the medium assented toit
at once, the object being to prove that she did not get upon the
chair. The distance from the seat of the chair to the top of Miss
Cook’s head, when seated, is thirty-one inches. The distance
from the seat of the chair to the bottom of the opening in the
cabinet at which the faces appear is fifty-one inches, so that
the distance from the top of her head to the bottom of the
opening in the cabinet is twenty inches. During the sitting
Mr. Henderson said he felt tugs at the thread he held not
exceeding six inches. When Mr. Blackburn clasped it, he
says he felt tugs not exceeding two or three inches. Katie
said that every time she drew power from the medium, the
medium gave a jerk. At the end of each sitting, the seals and
knots were found to be perfect, and Mr. Henderson has them
now in his possession, and says he will show them to any¬
body who will call upon him. Before the seance Mr. Hender¬
son was in the room by himself examining the cabinet as long
as he pleased, and he said that he was perfectly satisfied with
its bona fide character.
Amelia Cornek, Samuel Guppy, Charles Blackburn,
A. L. Henderson, Henry Cook, Emma Cook,
Eliza Till, William H. Harrison.
Herr Dobleu and Spiritualism:.—We see by the
Bristol Times and Mirror that Herr Dobler is going about
the country tying himself with ropes, then performing certain
tricks while a person present holds his knees. Dr. Sexton’s
assistant, Mr. Ogan, often performs Herr Dobler’s tricks
publicly, and shows how they are done.. The Darlington and
Richmond Herald, of January 21st, says :—Herr Dobler, at
the conclusion of his dark seance on Wednesday evening, said
that in giving what they had seen that evening, he did not
wish in any way to interfere with the science of Spiritualism.
He had not had experience in Spiritualism himself, and was
not a believer, but he had had a great deal of testimony from
gentlemen as to the manifestations—extraordinary manifesta¬
tions—which had taken place at their own houses—gentlemen
whose word he could not doubt. With regard, to the Daven¬
ports, whose manifestations he produced, he had no doubt it
was jugglery, and the proof of that, to his mind, was that he
could produce them by that means. It must be understood
that he laid down no challenge to produce other manifesta¬
tions than were produced by the Davenports. As the Spiritual¬
ists, he understood, had taken it very much to heart, and
thought that he was interfering with their belief, and with the
science of Spiritualism, he deemed it right to make this state¬
ment. With regard to Spiritualism, he thought there was a
good deal of humbug mixed up with it as well as truth.
(Hear, hear.) There was a gentleman in that room on Monday
evening, the Kev. Dr. Monck, of Bristol, between whom and
himself a little cross-firing took place, and, in the heat of the
moment, he had made remarks respecting that gentleman
which he -would not otherwise have done. (Hear, hear.) He
had had the pleasure of meeting that gentleman there, and,
though both he and Dr. Monck resided in Bristol, they had
never met before. He had heard, on the authority of gentle¬
men residing in Bristol, who knew Dr. Monck, that, he was an
excellent medium. Some clergymen, whom he had recently
met there, stated that what took place at Dr. Monck’s seances
was supernatural; in fact, from what he had heard of it, he
had no doubt about it himself. (Applause.)—Dr. Monck
spoke of the frank and handsome manner in which Herr
Dobler had spoken, and regretted that anything unpleasant
had passed on Monday night. He had no doubt that Herr
Dobler was irritated by the striking of matches, which the
Spiritualists looked upon as wrong, but for which perhaps
some excuse might be found in the way in which Herr Dobler’s
bill was drawn. He was glad to find, from Herr Dobler’s
statement, that he had no wish to attempt to expose Spiri¬
tualism generally, but only the Davenports, whom he (Dr.
Monck) had never seen.
Spiritual Literature.—For two or three years most
of the Sunday spiritual meetings in London have been
worked by Mr. Burns, the publisher, in his private trade
interests ; during that time they have been used for the sale
of his [goods at the doors, and for advertising purposes. On
the 15th December, 1870, he wrote to Mr. E. W. Allen,
another publisher, as follows :—“ Mr. Daw informs me that
you have applied to sell papers at the Cavendish Rooms on
Sunday evenings. I beg to inform you that it is engaged for
other purposes, and is not at your disposal.—James Burns.”
The present Sunday Lecture Committee is not an anonymous
one, and is the first which has been formed in London for a
long time, independently of trade interests. By way of con¬
trast, we also quote a letter recently written by its secretary
about Mr. Allen’s publications:—“ 4, Gray’s-inn-square,
W.C. Jan. 26th, 1874. Sir,—I am requested by the members
of the Tappan Lecture Committee to inform you that you are
quite at liberty to sell the Spiritualist, or any other papers,
spiritual or religious, at their meetings; but it would.be
necessary to provide your own means for so doing.—
Webster Glynes, Hon. Sec.” It is a question for the
committee to decide whether the sale of literature at Sunday
meetings is good for the cause or not, but in any case it is
satisfactory to know that the meetings are now worked in the
public interests, and that all our publishers are placed on an
equal footing. Mr. Burns’ letter was not published by us at
the time he wrote it, because we thought it better for the
movement that he should be allowed to unduly push his
trade interests, to a certain extent, to the disadvantage of his
neighbours, rather than that such sources of dissension should
be introduced into our journals.
MISS LOTTIE FOWLER, the GREAT AMERICAN
SOMNAMBULIST AND OL AIR VO Y ANTE, whose reputation is
well known throughout Europe and America for Revealing Startling Facts
to. the public, can be consulted on either Medical or Business Affairs con
nected with the Living and Dead. Hours 12 to 5. Terms, One Guinea.
Address, care of Mr. Middleton’s “ City Temperance Hotel,” foot of Lord
Oockbum-street, Edinburgh.
MR. W. G. SCORE r, Medical Mesmerist and
Rubber, having successfully treated several cases, is again open to
engagements.—194, Cornwall-road, Notting-hill, W. (Hammersmith line).
Please write.
R. JOHN HUNTER and DR, MESMER may be
consulted upon all forms of illness, through MR. ROBERT HARPER,
from whom Mesmeric Treatment and Eclectic Medicines may be obtained,
at 114, Wardour-street, Oxford-street, "W. Fees, 10s. and upwards. Hours,
one to five o'clock daily.
RS. EMPSON, Medical Clairvoyant and Mag-
-Lv JL netio Healer, undertakes the Diagnosis and the Cure of Diseases
(if curable). Patients at a distance may obtain diagnosis and advice by
sending magnetic link and fee of 10s. Address, 114, Wardour-street,
Oxford-street, W. Hours, one to five o’clock daily.
DIOR SALE, PRICE £5, BREECHES’ BIBLE
JaJ {Geneva edition), 1610, black letter, with copious annotations through¬
out. Illustrated with plates. In perfect condition. To be seen on applica¬
tion to T. Blyton, T4,-Navarino-road, Dalston, London, E.
NEW WORK BY ROBERT DALE OWEN.
Crown 8vo. pp. 344, cloth 7s. 6d.
mHREADING MY WAY : Twenty-Seven Years of Auto-
JL biography.
A most interesting volume, being a narrative of the first twenty-seven
years of the Author’s life; its adventures, errors, experiences; together
with the reminiscences of noted personages whom he has met, etc.
London: Trubner and Co., 57 and 59, Ludgate-hill.
NORTHERN DEPOT FOR THE BALE OF SPIRITUAL LITERATURE
49, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
BJ. BLAKE respectfully informs tbe friends of
® Spiritualism in the North, that he obtains all the principal serials
on Spiritualism, for which he will be glad to receive subscribers’ names.
Books not in stock obtained at short notice. Agent for the sale of the
Spiritualist, Medium, Spiritual Magazine, Human Nature, &c., &c. Sub¬
scribers’ names received for the Dialectical Society’s Report at the reduced
price, 7s. 6d. Single copies may be ordered. Terms, cash, postage extra.
E. J. BLAKE (successor to MR. BARKAS),
Newcastle-oh-Tyne.
THE SPIRITUALIST.
iii
Jan. 30, 1874.
PGffl McLEOD, M.D., Psycliometrie, Impressional, and
. healing by the laying on of hands; in which departments of Medium-
ehip Dr. McLeod is prepared to'give the highest references. Terms, 5s.
each person. Visits by arrangement. Hours 10 till 4. 22, Kobert-street,
Hampstead-road, N."W.
'ES.WOODFORDE, TRANCE MEDIUM & MEDICAL
MESMERIST, will also give Sittings for Development in Writing
or Drawinghinder Spirit Control. Terms reasonable.—Present address, 41,
Bernard-street, Russell-square. Private Seances attended,
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE.
PROFESSOR ADOLPHE DIDIER (28 Years estab¬
lished) ATTENDS PATIENTS and gives his Consultations at his-
residence daily, from Three till Eive o’clock.—19, Fitzroy-street, Fitzroy-
square.
~R. CHARLES E. WILLIAMS, Medium, is at home
- daily, to give Private Seances, from 12 to 5 p.m. Private Seances
attended at the houses of investigators. Public Seances at 61, Lamb’s Con¬
duit-street, on Monday evenings, admission 2s. 6d.; Thursday evenings
5.s; and Saturday evenings, for Spiritualists only, 5s,; at 8 o’clock each
evening. Address as above.
THE MANCHESTER ASSOCIATION OF
SPIRITUALISTS.
MEETING- of the active members and friends of this
Association was held on Sunday, the 26th day of October, 1873, to
take into consideration the best means to adopt for the consohdation of the
society. A provisional committee was appointed, from which a sub-com¬
mittee was chosen, to draw up a prospectus.
The Objects of this Association are
1, Mutual aid on the part of its members in the discovery of all truth
relating to man’s spiritual nature, capacities, duties, welfare, destiny, its
application to a regenerate life, also to assist enquirers in the investigation
of the facts of Spiritualism.
2. To spread a knowledge of the truths connected with the facts, chiefly
the truth of the reality of a future state of progressive existence for all.
As soon as a sufficient number of members is enrolled, a meeting will be
called, at which a permanent committee will be elected for the management
of the society.
The provisional committee earnestly solicit the co-operation of all who
desire the spread of the true and ennobling principles of Spiritualism.
The public meetings of this association are held, pro tern., at the Tem¬
perance Hall, Grosvenor-street, every Sunday afternoon, at 2.30, except
when other arrangements are made, of which due notice will be given.
Richard Fitton, Secretary pro iem.
Now Ready, Price Sixpence.
GOD AND IMMORTALITY, viewed in relation to
MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
A Discourse delivered in the City Hall Saloon, Glasgow, on Sunday
Evening, February 23rd, 1873, by
GEORGE SEXTON, M.A., M.D., LL.D., D.SO.,
Honorary Member of L'Accademia Dei Quiriti, at Pome, <£c.
BY THE SAME AUTHOR—
Price Threepence,
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF MACBETH.
A Lecture delivered before the Psychological Society of Glasgow, on
May 4th, 1869.
‘We advise all playgoers and dramatic readers to give a glance at this
pamphlet; they will be well paid for their troubie, and will see the phases
of Macbeth’s character far better than any actor of the present day can
delineate them.”—Theatrical Journal.
“ The lecture is a full, careful, and philosophical treatise on the
Shakespearian tragedy. Dr. Sexton makes the most patient analysis of the
character of the Thane; and in his conclusions, generally speaking, the
Student Will readily acquiesce.—The Era.
Photographic copies of the illuminated
ADDRESS to be presented by the Spiritualists of Great Britain to
Judge Edmonds, of New York, may be obtained of Messrs. Negretti and
Zambra, Crystal Palace, Sydenham. Price—Large size, 3s.; small size, Is.
AUSTRALIAN DEPOT for all Spiritualistic Literature,
W. H. TERRY, 96, Russell-strhet, Melbourne, where The
Spiritualist, and all other Journals devoted to the same subject, may be
obtained.
The Harbinger of Light, the Victorian exponent of Spiritualism, sent to
11 parts of the world. Subscription, 5s. per annum, exclusive of postage.
ARON FRANKLIN, PRESERYER OF BIRDS AND
ANIMALS, AND DELINEATOR OF NATURE. Museums and
private coUections attended. British and foreign birds’-skins, stags’-heads,
fox’s heads, shells, and corals in great variety. The Spiritualist and kindred
periodicals kept on sale. Established 1847. Aaron Franklin, 100, Suf-
folk-street, Birmingham.
THOS. WILKS, BOOKSELLER, STATIONER, CIR¬
CULATING LIBRARY, &e., &c., of 2, Napier-place, Dalston Lane,
London, E., respectfuRy solicits the patronage of Spiritualists residing in
the vicinity of Clapton, Hackney, Dais ton, and Kingslaud.—Information as
to Local Associations, Seances, &C., to be obtained on application. The
Spiritualist newspaper kept on sale.
TNSPIRATIONAL LECTURES BY MR. J. J. MORSE
J- (Trance Medium).
Opinions of the Press,
“ Every word was listened to with breathless attention, and every eye
riveted on the speaker, who, for an hour and a half, poured out a flood of
eloquence without stopping or hesitating for a single moment.”—Birming¬
ham Daily Mail.
“ The prayer over he commenced an eloquent and philosophical address
on modern Spiritualism.”—North-Western Daily Times.
“ The medium then passed into what is termed the trance state, and in
clear and forcible language, with a readiness of expression and fluency of
utterance delivered a discourse on Spiritualism.”—Liverpool Daily A Ibion.
“ For nearly an hour and a half the orationist, medium, lecturer, or what
ever name he chooses to go by, spoke with a fluency, a logical and gram
matical correctness, a fitness of language and figure, upon this abstruse
subject—‘Humanity; its Nature and its Needs’—which no half-dozen
orators in England could hope to equal in their normal condition, without
the most laborious preparation beforehand, and the greatest coolness during
delivery.... He never paused except when a pause was necessary for
rhetorical effect!”—South Wales Press.
“ Those who are intellectually inclined, and desire to know what Spirit
ualism is as taught by the spirits, will learn more in an hour’s conversation
with Mr. Morse's guides than in months of misdirected seeking.”—Medium.
“ The address given through the lips of Mr. Morse was of a very philoso¬
phical and high-class character.'’—Spiritualist.
“ Mr. Morse is what is caUed a speaking-medium, of no mean order, for
he kept crowded audiences intently listening each evening for above an hour
and'a half to his certainly most powerful and accomplished addresses.”—
Darlington and Richmond Herald.
“ He (Mr. Morse) dealt with the various theories set up against Spiri¬
tualism, and sometimes he stated his argument so well and became so
eloquent, as to provoke rounds of applause from the audience.... As the
lecture proceeded these demonstrations on the part of the audience became
more frequent and prolonged.”—Glasgow Herald.
MR. J. J. MORSE, Trance Medium, is open to receive engagements in
London, or the provinces, to attend seances, or address public meetings.
Mr. Morse holds a seance every Friday evening, at 8 o’clock, at 15, Southamp-
ton-fow, W.C., when he is in London, where letters, &c., may be addressed,
or to his private residence, Warwick Cottage, Old Ford, Bow, E.
TO ENQUIRERS INTO SPIRITUALISM.
ONE of the most compact, and well-considered masses of
evidence that Spiritualism is true, is No. 59 of The Spiritualist, price
4d. or 4Jd. post free. It is a number compiled specially for the information
of enquirers, and will give them a very large amount of information at a
cheap rate. This number of The Spiritualist is of special value for sale at
the doors at public meetings connected with Spiritualism, so copies should
be kept on hand by psychological societies in all parts of the United King¬
dom. London: E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, E.O,
HENRY B. BUSH,
(From Hunt and Marsland’s)
PRACTICAL BOOKBINDER, STATIONER, BOOKSELLER, LETTER-
PRESS, COPPER-PLATE, AND LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTER,
ENGRAVER, &0.
14, HIGH-STREET, BOW (facing the church).
Newspapers and Periodicals supplied. Agent for The (SpiWfwaffsf Newspaper.
Recently published, in Crown 8vo., price 2s.
HYMNS OF MODERN MAN. By Thomas Herbert
Noyes, jun. B.A., of Christ’s Church, Oxford. Author of “An
IdyU of the world,” and “Lyrics and Bucolics,” &c. London: Longmans,
Green, and Co., Paternoster-row.
WORK BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
An elegant little volume, bound in blue and gold, carmine edges,
Price 4s. 6d.
LYRICS AND BUCOLICS. The Eclogues of Virgil,
a selection from the Odes of Horace, and the Legend of the Sibyll.
“Mr. Noyes’ qualifications are of no mean order. In the first place, he
has the essential one of thoroughly entering into and 'appreciating the true
spirit of his master, and even where, as we have said, he exceeds what
we conceive to be the limits of a translation, we attribute it rather to his
being carried away by his own muse than to his misunderstanding his
author’s. And here we have a second and no less important qualifi¬
cation for success. Mr. Noyes has a genuine poetic vein of his own, and
his lines have almost always the. ring of true metal.”—Standard,
April 7th, 1868.
“ There is a certain freedom and swing in these translations, which not
only more resembles the brisk spirit and ringing tone of the original, but
is truly refreshing after the stiff rendering which had been generally made
of Horace’s choicest composition.’'—Review, Feb. \5th, 1868.
“The Translations from Horace are spirited and musical. His light
Epicureanism and gay Stoicism are happily hit off.”—Daily News,
March 3d, 1868.
“ Mr. Noyes’ Version of Virgil’s Pastorals may fairly take its place by the
side of Mr. Connington’s translation of the iEneid. The lovers of such
poetry have here as pleasant a bouquet as can well be set before them,”—
Speculator, March 7th, 1868.
TO SPIRITUALISTS, BOOKSELLERS, AND NEWSAGENTS.
JC. ASTON, WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BOOK-
© SELLER, STATIONER. AND PUBLISHER, Agent for the Sale
of The Spiritualist, 39, Smallbrook-street, Birmingham, Supplies the Town
and Country Trade, on London Terms, with Periodicals, Stationery, and all
Goods connected with the Trade. The largest Stock of Periodicals, &c.,
out of London. Agencies accepted for any Publications.
Established 1842.
IV
THE SPIRITUALIST.
Jan. 30, 1874.
EVIDENCE THAT SPIRITUALISM DESERVES
INVESTIGATION.
Spiritualism deserves investigation because within the last twenty years
it has found its way into all the civilised countries on the globe; it has also
a literature of thousands of volutnes and not a few periodicals.
The London Dialectical Society, Adam-street, Adelphi, under the pre¬
sidency of Sir John Lubbock, Bart.,'M.P., appointed a Committee to inves¬
tigate spiritual phenomena. The Committee was appointed on the 26th
January, 1869, as follows:—
“ H. Gt. Atkinson, Esq., F.G.S., G. Wheatley Bennett, Esq.; J. S. Bergheim.
Esq., C.E.; H. R. Fox Bourne, Esq.; Charles Bradlaugh, Esq.; G. Fenton
Cameron, Esq., M.D.; John Chapman, Esq., M.D.; Rev. 0. Maurice Davies,
D.D.; Charles R. Drysdale, Esq., M.D. D. H. Dyte, Esq., M.R.O.S.; Mrs.
D. H. Dyte; James Edmunds, Esq., M.D.; Mrs. Edmunds, James Gannon,
Esq.; Grattan Geary, Esq.; Robert Hannah, Esq., F.G.S.; Jenner Gale
Hillier, Esq.; Mrs. "J. G, Hillier; Henry Jeffery, Esq.; Albert Kisch, Esq.;
M.R.O.S.; Joseph Maurice, Esq:; Isaac L. Meyers, Esq.; B. M. Moss, Esq.;
Robert Quelch, Esq., C.E.; Thomas Reed, Esq.; 0. Russell Roberts, Esq.,
Ph.D.; William Volckman, Esq.; Horace S. Yeomans,Esq. ,
“Professor Huxley and Mr. George Henry Lewes, to be invited to co¬
operate. Drs. Chapman and Drysdale and Mr. Fox Bourne declined to sit,
and the following names were subsequently added to the Committee
“George Cary, Esq., B.A.; Edward W. Cox, Esq., Serjeant-at-law;
William B. Gower, Esq.; H. D. Jencken, Esq., Barrister-at-law; J. H. Levy,
Esq.; W. H. Swepston, Esq., Solicitor; Alfred R. Wallace, Esq., F.R.G.S.;
Josiah Webber, Esq.”
After inquiring into the subject for two years, the Committee issued its
report, which, with the evidence, forms a bulky volume, published by
Messrs. Longmans. Among other things this Committee reported:
“ 1. That sounds of a very varied character, apparently proceeding from
articles of furniture, the floor and walls of the room—the vibrations
accompanying which sounds are often distinctly perceptible to the touch—
occur, without being produced by muscular action or mechanical con¬
trivance.
“ 2. That movements of heavy bodies take place without mechanical
contrivance of any kind, or adequate exertion of muscular force by those
present, and frequently without contact or connection with any person.
“ 3. That these sounds and movements often occur at the time-and in
the manner asked for by persons, present, and by means of a simple code
of signals, answer questions and spell out coherent communications.
One of the sub-committees of the Dialectical Society reported:—
“Your committee studiously avoided the employment of professional or
paid mediums. All were members of the committee, persons of social
position, of unimpeachable integrity, with no pecuniary object, having
nothing to gain by deception, and everything to lose by detection of im¬
posture.’’   
HOW TO FORM SPIRIT CIRCLES.
Inquirers into Spiritualism should begin by forming spirit circles in
their own homes, with no Spiritualist or professional medium present.
Should no results be obtained on the first occasion, try again with other
Bitters. One or more persons possessing medial powers without knowing
it are to be found in nearly every household.
1. Let the room be of a comfortable temperature, but cool rather than
warm—let arrangements be made that nobody shall enter it, and that there
shall be no interruption for one hour during the sitting of the circle.
2. Let the circle consist of four, five, or six individuals, about the same
number of each sex. Sit round an uncovered wooden table, with all the
palms of the hands in contact with its top surface. Whether the hands
touch each other or not is usually of no importance. Any table will do,
just large enough to conveniently accommodate the sitters. The removal
of a hand from the table for a few seconds does no harm, but when one of
the sitters breaks the circle by leaving the table it sometimes, but not
always, very considerably delays the manifestations.
3. Before the sitting begins, place some pointed lead-pencils and some
sheets of clean writing paper on the table, to write down any communica¬
tions that may be obtained.
4. People who do not like each other should not sit in the same circle, for
such a want of harmony tends to prevent manifestations, except with well-
developed physical mediums; it is not yet known why. Belief or unbelief
has no influence on the manifestations, but an acrid feeling against them is
a weakening influence.
6. Before the manifestations begin, it is well to engage in general conver¬
sation or in singing, and it is best that neither should be of a frivolous
nature. A prayerful, earnest feeling among the members of the circle gives
the higher spirits more power to come to the circle, and makes it more
difficult for the lower spirits to get near.
6. The first symptom of the invisible power at work is often a feeling like
a cool wind sweeping over the hands. The first manifestations will probably
be table tiltings or raps.
7. When motions of the table or sounds are produced freely, to avoid
confusion, let One person only speak, and talk to the table as to an
intelligent being. Let him tell the table that three tilts or raps mean “Yes,”
one means “ No,” and two mean “ Doubtful,” and ask whether the arrange¬
ment is understood. If three signals be given in answer, then say, “If I
speak the letters of the alphabet Slowly, will you signal every time I come
to the letter you want, and spell us out a message ? ” Should three signals
be given, set to work on the plan proposed, and from this time an intelligent
system of communication is established.
8. Afterwards the question should be put, “Are we sitting in the right
order to get the best manifestations?” Probably some members of the
circle will then be told to change seats with each other, and the signals will
be afterwards strengthened. Next ask, “Who is the medium?” When
spirits come asserting themselves to be related or known to anybody present,
well-chosen questions should be put to test the accuracy of the statements,
as spirits out of the body have all the virtues and all the failings pf spirits
in the body.
9. A powerful physical medium is usually a person of an impulsive,
affectionate, and genial nature, and very sensitive to mesmeric influences.
The majority of media are ladies.
The best manifestations are obtained when the medium and all the
members of the circle are strongly bound together by the affections, and
are thoroughly comfortable and happy; the manifestations are bom of the
spirit, and shrink somewhat from the lower mental influences of earth.
Family circles, with no strangers present, are usually the best.
Possibly at the first sitting of a circle symptoms of other forms Of
mediumship than tilts or raps may make their appearance.
B
RITISH NATIONAL INSURANCE CORPORATION,
Umited.
Capital—ONE MILLION STERLING. .
Read 0#c«i.-BR0WN STREET and MARSDEN STREET, MANCHESTER
FIRE.
Insurances against Loss or Damage by Fire may be effected with
this Corporation upon every description of property at equitable rates
Bonus Returns.—In all cases where no claim has been made upon the
Corporation during the year preceding, a Bonus of ten Per Cent, will be
returned on the payment of Renewed Premiums;
FIDELITY GUARANTEE.
Policies are issued by this Corporation Guaranteeing Employers against
loss by the Fraud or Dishonesty of persons holding confidential and other
places of trust.
The Local Government Board have approved the Policies of this Corpora¬
tion as security for the Poor Law Officials.
Chief Offices for Ouarantee.
20, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON, E.O.
*** Applications invited from Solicitors and Agents of influence and
standing to act for the Corporation in unrepresented localities
TO OWNERS OF HOUSE PROPERTY-
E. BIRD, HOUSE AGENT,
11, PARK GROVE, SHEPHERD’S LANE, BRIXTON,
T> ESPECTFULLY solicits the patronage of Owners of
JL\l House Property, the situation of his Offices—opposite the Brixton
Road, and near the Railway Station—offering special facilities for the
prompt letting of Houses of every description.
All Orders for Building, House Decorating, Plumbing, and Gas Fitting,
well and promptly executed.
ARTHUR MALTBY,
TAILOR AND HABIT MAKER,
8, HANOVER PLACE, PARK ROAD, REGENT’S PARK.
Established 1833.
Orders executed on the shortest notice. Workmanship and Fit guaranteed.
LIBERAL DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
SPIRITUAL LEAFLETS. — Handsomely-printed Bine
Leaflets, containing instructions how to form Spirit Circles, the
results of the investigation of the Dialectical Society, and other informa¬
tion, maybe obtained in packets, each containing 400, price 2s. 6d. per
packet. They are especially useful for distribution at public meetings, also
in railway-carriages, letter-boxes, reading-rooms, clubs, and places of
public resort.
E. W. Allen, 11, Ave Maria-lane, St. Paul’s-churchyard, London, E.C.
A NEW ERA IN JOURNALISM!
T
HE FREE SPEAKER, a High Class Family News-
• paper. Weekly—One Penny.
SPECIAL POLITICAL AND SOCIAL ARTICLES,
BY INDEPENDENT WRITERS.
Full Reports of Home, Foreign, and General News. Law and Police.
FREEDOM OF CORRESPONDENCE.
WEEKLY TALES BY THE FIRST WRITERS.
Publishing Office: 125, Fleet-street. Advertisement Office: 106, Shoe-lane.
LUNACY LAW REFORM.
ALL PERSONS cognisant of cases of INCARCERATION,
under a false plea of Insanity, or of MALTREATMENT OF
LUNATICS, or who are ready to co-operate in obtaining AMENDMENT
OF THE LUNACY LAWS, are earnestly requested to communicate with
MRS. LOUISA LOWE,
97, BURTON ROAD, BRIXTON..
The following Extract from the “Act to Amend the Law relating to Luna¬
tics ” is a fair specimen of Lunacy Legislation :—
“ It shall be lawful for the Proprietor or Superintendent of any licensed
house with the previous assent in writing of two or more of the Commis¬
sioners, or in the. Case of a House licensed by Justices, of two or more of
the Visitors to entertain and keep in such house as a Boarder for such time as
may be specified in the assent, any person who may have been within Five
Years immediately preceding the giving of such assent, a Patient in any
asylum, hospital, or licensed house, or under care as a Single Patient.”—25
& 26 Viet., ch. iii., sec. 18.
Printed for the Proprietor by Beveridge & Co., at the Holbom Printing
Work's, Fullwood’s Rents, High Holbom, in the Parish of St. Andrew-
above-Bar and St. George the Martyr, London, and published by E. W
Allen, Ave Maria-lane London, E.O.
